---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1985'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1985) May 31, 1985
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 31, 1985

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2008

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA May 31, 1985
------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:00 p.m., in Open Session on May 30, 1985, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., President-Elect Robert M. O'Neil, and John S. Rattle, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, James S. Cremins, Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Henry A. Dudley, Edward E. Elson, William R. Harvey, Carl W. Smith, James L. Trinkle, E. Massie Valentine, Neal O. Wade, Jr., Edgar N. Weaver, Gregory C. Whitehead, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Ernest H. Ern, Raymond M. Haas, William H. Muller, Marian H. Peavey, and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia reconvened in Open Session on May 31, 1985, at 3:45 p.m., in the East Oval ROOM of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., John S. Battle, Jr., William M, Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, James S. Cremins, Joshua P, Darden, Jr., Edward E. Elson, William R. Harvey, Carl W. Smith, James L. Trinkle, E. Massie Valentine, Neal Q. Wade, Jr., Edgar N. Weaver, Gregory C. Whitehead, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Absent was Henry A, Dudley, Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., George G. Grattan, IV, Raymond M. Haas, William H. Muller, and Marion B. Peavey were also present. The Minutes of the meeting of March 29, 1985, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

The following motions were unanimously adopted by vote of all Visitors present; (a) That the Finance committee or the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for discussion of Item Number 15 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion of investing public funds where competition or bargaining is involved when if made public initially the University's financial interests would be adversely affected as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a)(5) of the Virginia Code.(b) That the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 7 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider the acquisition or disposition of real property for a public purpose if that discussion could affect the value of property owned by or desirable for ownership by the University as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a)(2) of the Virginia Code.(c) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 11 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion and evaluation of the performance of University departments or schools if individual employees might be affected by the evaluation.(d) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for consultation with legal counsel pertaining to actual and potential litigation, or other legal matters within the jurisdiction of the Board, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a)(6) of the Virginia Code.(e) That the Special Committee on Nominating a Non-Voting Student on the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for consideration of personnel matters involving University appointees for appointments or assignments. Following a recess for Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 3:45 p.m., on May 31, 1985.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

In compliance with Section 3.1 of the 1975 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the following Members were elected to serve on the Executive Committee until the next Annual Meeting in June 1986: Fred G. Pollard, John S. Battle, Jr., Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Carl W. Smith, and E. Massie Valentine.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESFINANCE COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As provided for in Section 3.2 of the 1975 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector announced his appointments to the Standing Committees of the Board, with Members to serve until the next Annual Meeting in June 1986. The Committee assignments are as follows: FINANCE COMMITTEEMr. Carl W. Smith, ChairmanMr. John S. Battle, Jr. Mr. Joshua P. Darden, Jr.Mr. Henry A. Dudley Mr. William R. Harvey Mr. Neal 0. Wade, Jr. STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEMr. Joshua P. Darden, Jr., ChairmanMr. William M. Camp, Jr. Mrs. George M. Cochran Mr. James S. CreminsMr. E. Massie Valentine Yr. Jesse B. Wilson, III HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEDr. Edgar N. Weaver, ChairmanMr. William M. Camp Jr. Mr. Edward E. ElsonMr. William R. Harvey Mr. James L. Trinkle Mr. Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEMr. John S. Battle, Jr., ChairmanMrs. George M. Cochran Mr. Edward E. Elson Mr. James L. TrinkleMr. Neal 0. Wade, Jr.Mr. Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEMr. E. Massie Valentine, ChairmanMr. James S. Cremins Mr. Henry A. Dudley Mr. Carl W. SmithDr. Edgar N. WeaverMr. Jesse B. Wilson, III AUDIT COMMITTEE Mr. Jesse B. Wilson, III, ChairmanMr. James S. Cremins Dr. Edgar N. Weaver

The Rector, Mr. Fred G. Pollard, is an ex officio member of all Committees.

ELECTION OF TIMOTHY J. INGRASSIA AS NON-VOTING STUDENT MEMBER
-------------------------------------------------------------

On the motion of Mr. Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Chairman of the Special Committee on Nominating a Non-Voting Student on the Board of Visitors, the Board elected Mr. Timothy J. Ingrassia as a non-voting student member of the Board of Visitors for the period July l, 1985 through June 30, 1986 as prescribed in Section 2.21 of The Manual.

The Rector expressed the thanks and appreciation of the Board to Gregory C. Whitehead for his service to the University as a student member of the Board.

STATEMENT BY GREGORY C. WHITEHEAD
---------------------------------

In acknowledging a chair presented to Mr. Gregory C. Whitehead in appreciation for his year of service as the student member of the Board of Visitors, Mr. Whitehead expressed to the Board his appreciation for the opportunity to serve. The Rector wished him well as he begins his duties in Chicago.

RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION TO PRESIDENT FRANK L. HEREFORD, JR.
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Frank L. Hereford, Jr., was elected the fifth President of the University of Virginia on September 14, 1973; andWHEREAS, under his direction the excellence of the University's students, faculty, programs, and physical facilities achieved national recognition; andWHEREAS, through his efforts, the University of Virginia has become one of the nation's best endowed public universities; andWHEREAS, Frank and Ann Hereford were gracious hosts to untold numbers of students, faculty and alumni, cementing with friendship the several segments of the University community; andWHEREAS, they have won the continuing confidence of Governors, Legislators, Rectors, and Boards of Visitors for unfailing good judgment and skillful and gracious handling of the affairs of the University; andWHEREAS, the students have come to regard the University as one of the most desirable institutions of higher learning, selecting it above all others;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that expressions of appreciation and gratitude be conveyed to Ann and Frank Hereford for eleven outstanding years of dedicated service, and with best wishes for their continued happiness as part of the University family.

RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION TO CHANCELLOR JOSEPH C. SMIDDY
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, more than thirty years ago, Joseph C. Smiddy came to direct Clinch Valley College when it occupied a single building in Wise, Virginia; andWHEREAS, Clinch Valley College has become a significant institution of higher learning with an extensive and campus numbering 25 buildings and an enrollment of 1,150 andWHEREAS, Mr. Smiddy has served Clinch Valley College, the University, the community, and the Commonwealth of Virginia with unusual dedication and distinction,NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors extends its grateful thanks and best wishes to Mr. Smiddy as he retires as Chancellor of Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty: Mr. Charles Baril as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the period January 1, 1985 to December 31, 1985, at a salary of $40,000.Dr. Daniel M. Becker as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effectiveJuly 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $35,900. Ms. Anne E. Behnke as Acting Assistant Professor of Chinese, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $22,400. Mr. Donald Black Mr. Donald Black as Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $55,000. Ms. Mair J. de Voursney as Instructor, General Faculty, for the period April 1, 1985 through January 31, 1988, at an annual salary of $23,400. Mr. Thomas E. Doran as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period May 15, 1985 through June 30, 1986, at an annual salary of $32,000. Dr. Lloyd S. Gray as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effectiveJuly 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $31,000.Ms. Helen C. Hamman as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective February 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $18,000. Dr. Daniel P. Harrington as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $31,000. Dr. W. Harry Horner as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effectiveJuly 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $31,000.Ms. Elizabeth J. Hrncir as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $25,000.Mr. W. Reed Johnson as Research Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $47,000.Ms. Clare R. Kinney as Assistant Professor of English, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $23,500.Ms. Audrey E. Kurth as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $23,500. Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin as Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effectiveJuly 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $24,500. Dr. Mark D. Leeson as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effectiveJuly 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $31,000. Dr. Joan McIlhenny as Assistant Professor of Radiology and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective September 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $31,000. Ms. Susan C. Meyers as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $26,000. Dr. Ian Norley as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective June 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $45,000. Mr. Daniel R. Ortiz as Assistant Professor of Law, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $42,600.Dr. JoAnn V. Pinkerton as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effectiveJuly 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $31,000. Mr. Hugh A. Ragsdale as Visiting Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985 at an academic year salary of $40,000. Ms. Mildred W. Ravenell as Associate Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $63,000. Mrs. Deborah G. Roberson as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective April 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $28,200.Ms. Julie A. Roin as Assistant Professor of Law, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $48,000.Dr. Bruce ScirmerZ as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effectiveJuly 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $31,000.Mr. Jonathon Z. Schuch as Instructor in Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, for one year, effective June 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $30,000. Ms. Ronda R. Simms as instructor in History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $19,500. Mr. Michael J. Smith as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective January 16, 1986, at an academic year salary of $27,500. Mr. Ronald J. Stump as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $35,000. Mr. Nicolaos Tzannes as Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $47,000. Mr. Daniel J. Walsh as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $24,500. Dr. Cynthia S. Weikel as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effectiveJuly 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $31,000.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

Ms. Laurel P. Costa as Lecturer in French, far one academic year, effective September 1, 1985, at a salary of $9,000.Mr. Robert F. Dalzell, Jr., as visiting Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1986, at a salary of $12,000.Miss Barbara H. Dunn, as Visiting Associate Professor of Nursing, for the period March 1, 1985 through May 31, 1985, at a salary of $3,167.Dr. Ann K. Henry as Instructor in Internal Medicine, for the period October 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986, at a salary of $26,250.Dr. W. Reed johnson as Research Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986, at a salary of $30,550.Dr. William A. Terranovaas Instructor in Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery, for one year, effectiveJuly 1, 1985, at a salary of $3,000.Mr. Kwamena Woode as Visiting Associate Professor of Medical Education, for the period June 14, 1985 through July 15, 1985, at a salary of $4,000.

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Elections of ChairholdersMr. Gary Balian as Mary Muilenburg Stamp Professor of Orthopedic Research, and Professor of Biochemistry, General Medical Faculty, for a period of three years, effective July 1, 1985, at a salary of $48,200.Mr. Irving I. Gottesman as Commonwealth Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1985, at a salary of $73,000.Mr. Hans W. Gottinger as Frank Talbott, Jr., Visiting Professor, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986, at an academic year salary of $50,000.Mr. Edmund W. Kitch as Joseph M. Hartfield Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $88,000.(b) Leaves of Absence for ChairholdersMr. Sidney M. HechtJohn W. Mallet Professor of Chemistry, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1985, with partial pay, to continue his association with Smith, Kline and French Laboratories.Mr. Roland N. McKean, Paul Good McIntire Professor of Economics, for the period September 1, 1985 through January 15, 1986, with partial pay, to do research.(c) Changes of Title for ChairholdersDr. Norman J. Knorr, from James Carroll Flippin Professor of Medical Science, Professor of Psychiatry and Plastic Surgery, to University Professor of Psychiatry and Neuroscience, effective April 1, 1985.Mr. Richard M. Rorty, from William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Humanities to William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Humanities and University Professor, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Richard A. Scott, from Carman G. Blough Professor of Commerce to Frank S. Kaulback, Jr., Professor of Commerce, effective September l, 1985.Mr. Robert H. Trent, from The Morris Plan Professor of Consumer Banking to Ralph A. Beeton Professor of Free Enterprise, effective September 1, 1985.(d) Special Salary Actions for ChairholdersMr. Edwin S. Cohen, Joseph M. Hartfield Professor of Law, effective September l, 1984, at an academic year salary of $25,200.Mr. John J. Dorning, Whitney Stone Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Professor of Engineering Physics, effective August 16, 1984, at a salary of $86,400.(e) Resignation of ChairholderMr. Thomas Wheelen, Ralph A. Beeton Professor of Free Enterprise, effective May 31, 1985, to accept another position.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Lewis M. Armistead as Assistant Professor of Family Practice and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke Program, for three years, effectiveJuly 1, 1985. Mr. Thomas T. Baber as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985. Mrs. Suzanne K. Burge as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1985. Dr. Michael L. Coates as Associate Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1985. Mrs. Lillie B. Crigler as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1985. Mrs. Linda R. Davies as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985. Dr. Eduard E. de Lange as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1. 1985. Dr. Varsha J. Desai as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Roanoke Program, for three years, effectiveJuly 1, 1985. Mr. Robert M. de Voursney as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effectiveJuly 1, 1985. Dr. Shelby C. Dickerson as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1985. Mrs. Patillo E. Donald as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985. Miss Barbara H. Dunn as Visiting Associate Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985. Mr. Robert R. Emery as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985. Ms. Mary E. Fisher as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985. Mr. Gary D. Fletcher as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Robert E. Grese as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985. Dr. J. Albert Hagy as Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1985. Dr. Richard B. Hays as Associate Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1985. Ms. Janette C. Hudson as Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one semester, effective September 1, 1985. Mrs. Leslie D. Hurt as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effectiveJuly 1, 1985. Mr. Andrew M. Johnson as Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985. Mrs. Gretchen L. Kelly as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1985. Mr. Anthony R. Kerr as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986. Miss Anna B. Kinney as Associate Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effectiveJuly 1, 1985. Mr. John L. Knapp as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effectiveJuly 1, 1985. Miss Elayne S. Kornblatt as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985. Dr. Linda S. Krell as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective June 1, 1985. Miss Peggye G. Lassiter as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985. Dr. Alfonso Lledo-Perez as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective November 1, 1985. Ms. Cathtrine Macklin as Acting Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985. Miss Sara J. Mapstone as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1985. Mrs. Sheridan V. McCabe as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985. Ms. Susan McKinnon as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985. Ms. Lynne W. Olsho as Research Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology and Research Assistant Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, for the period June 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986. Ms. Ann P. Pollard as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effectiveJuly 1, 1985. Mr. William J. Sacco as Visiting Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effectiveJuly 1, 1985. Mr. Arunaya Saha as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985. Ms. Cindi W. Sanborn as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1985. Mr. Martin V. Schneider as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985. Miss Eileen T. Somerville as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1985. Mr. Supramaniam Srinivasan Professor of Materials Science, for the period June 1, 1984 through May 31, 1986. Mr. Sander Weinreb as Visiting Research Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985. Miss Nancy I. Whitman as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985.

CANCELLATION OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. NICOLAOS 5. TZANNES
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the re-election of Mr. Nicolaos S. Tzannes as Visiting Professor of Electrical. Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985, as approved by the Board on March 29, 1985, be and it is hereby cancelled.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Mr. Thomas J. O'Leary from Instructor of Neurological Surgery to Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective May 1, 1985.Ms. Renate L. Voris from Assistant Professor of German to Associate Professor of German, for two years, effective September 1, 1985.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Amir H. Assadi, Associate Professor of Mathematics, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986, with partial pay, to do research.Mr. Richard B. Barnett,Associate Professor of History, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986, without pay, to do research. Ms. Suzanne K. Burge, Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period March 15, 1985 through April 15, 1985, without pay, for personal reasons. Ms. Ellen Contini-Morava, Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for the period September 1, 1985 through January 15, 1986, without pay, to do research. Ms. Bella M. Depaulo, Associate Professor of Psychology, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986, with partial pay, to do research. Mr. Anthony Frankfurter, Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for the period April 1, 1985 through June 30, 1985, with partial pay, to write final grant reports. Mr. Burke D. Grandjean, Associate Professor of Sociology, for the period January 16, 1986 through may 31, 1986, without pay, to do research. Mr. Thomas T. Hammond, Professor of History, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986, without pay, to do research. Mr. Robert B. Hitchner, Assistant Professor of History, for the period January 16, 1986 through May 31, 1986, without pay, to do research. Mr. John W. Israel, Professor of History, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986, without pay, to do research. Mr. Martin S. Jaffee, Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986, with partial pay, to do research. Mr. W. Reed Johnson, Research Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for the period September 1, 1985 through may 31, 1986, with partial pay, to do research. Mr. Daniel J. Larson, Associate Professor of Physics, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986, with partial pay, to do research. Mr. Charles W. McCurdy, Associate Professor of History, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986, with partial pay, to do research. Mr. A. Jon Megibow, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period August 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986, without pay, for personal reasons. Mr. Joseph C. Miller, Professor of History, for the period September 1, 1985 through January 15, 1986, without pay, to do research. Mr. John T. Monahan, Professor of Law, Psychology and Legal Medicine, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986, with partial pay, to do research. Mr. James A. Norton, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period September 1, 1985 through January 15, 1986, with partial pay, for personal reasons. Mr. Blaine E. Norum, Associate Professor of Physics, for the periodJuly 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986, without pay, to devote full time to the Continuous Electron Seam Facility. Mr. David M. O'Brien, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period September 1, 1985 through January 15, 1986, without pay, to accept an award from the Russell Sage Foundation. Ms. Joanne Paradise, Assistant Professor of Art History, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986, without pay, to accept a J. Paul Getty Foundation Fellowship. Mr. Terrance W. Pratt, Professor of Computer Science, for the period September I, 1985 through May 31, 1986, with partial pay, to do research. Mr. S. Fred Singer, Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986, without pay, to continue to teach at George Mason University.Ms. Margaret D. Stetz, Assistant Professor of English, for the period March 25, 1985 through May 31, 1985, with partial pay, to do research. Mr. H. Wayne Storey, Assistant Professor of Italian, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986, without pay, to teach at the University of Berkeley. Ms. Susan Tulis, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the periodJuly 1, 1985 through July 31, 1985, without pay, to teach a course at the University of North Carolina. Ms. Karen Zagona, Assistant Professor of Spanish, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986, without pay, for personal reasons.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Nancy C. Brekke from Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology to Assistant Professor of Psychology, for the period April 1, 1985 through May 31, 1988.Dr. Joseph F. Chance from Assistant Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period December 1, 1984 through June 30, 1986. Mr. Peter F. Cooper from Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, DeJarnette Center to Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, DeJarnette Center, for the period March 1, 19,85 through June 30, 1986. Dr. Daniel P. Harrington from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effectiveJuly 1, 1985. Mr. Stephen V. Heim from Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, DeJarnette Center to Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, DeJarnette Center, for the period March 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986. Dr. W. Harry Horner from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Assistant Professor of Surgery and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effectiveJuly 1, 1985. Mr. Per V. Jenster from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three years, effective September 1, 1985. Ms. Elayne S. Kornblatt from Assistant Professor of Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing and Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Medicine, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985. Dr. Thomas P. Kuhlmann from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Surgery, for the period December 1, 1984 through June 30, 1985. Dr. Robert D. Powers from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Surgery, for the period December 1, 1984 through June 30, 1986. Ms. JoAnne Scott from Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective July 1, 1985.

CANCELLATION OF THE CHANGE OF TITLE OF MR. NICOLAOS S. TZANNES
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the change of title of Mr. Nicolaos S. Tzannes from Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering to Professor of Electrical Engineering, for the period September 1, 1985, through May 31, 1987, as approved by the Hoard on March 29, 1985, be and it is hereby cancelled.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Marc. J. Feldman, Research Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective April 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $40,000.Mr. David T. Haberly, Professor of Portuguese, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $48,000. Mr. Raymoind J. Nelson, Associate Professor of English, effective September 1, 1984, at an academic year salary of $39,400. Ms. Lynne W. Olsho, Research Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, and Research Assistant Professor of Speech Pathology, effective April 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $16,960.Ms. Lynne W. Olsho, Research Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, and Research Assistant Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, effective June 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $30,000. Mr. Om Prakash, Visiting Professor of Economics, effective January 16, 1985, for one semester, at a salary of $20,000. Mr. Austin E Quigley, Associate Professor of English, effective June 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $45,000. Mr. Kenneth R. Redden, Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1984, at an academic year salary of $29,100. Mr. John Rodden, Acting Assistant 'Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $21,000. Mr. Wilfrid J. Rollman, Lecturer in History, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $26,500. Mr. Gary H. Shaw, Assistant Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1985, at an academic year salary of $31,000.

RETIREMENT
----------

The following retirement was announced: Mr. Robert W. McGilvery, Professor of Biochemistry, effective September l, 1985. Mr. McGilvery has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1962.

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person be and he is hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Robert W. McGilver, Professor of Biochemistry, effective September 1985.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Robert C. Acuff, Clinical Instructor in Nursing, effective March 31, 1985, to accept another position. Ms. Mary C. Ball, Clinical Instructor in Nursing, effective March 31, 1985, to accept another position. Ms. Mary L. Bibbs, Clinical Instructor in Nursing, effective March 31, 1985, to accept another position. Ms. Lois C. Bieber, Clinical Instructor in Nursing, effective March 31, 1985, to accept another position. Ms. Carolyn Bluestine, Assistant Professor of Spanish, effective May 31, 1985, for personal reasons. Mr. John Boyd, II, Associate Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1985, to accept another position. Mr. Frank L. Brown, Clinical Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective March 31, 1985, to accept another position. Mr. David T Buxton, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effectiveJuly 1, 1985, for personal reasons. Mr. Kang Cheng, Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, effective March 31, 1985, to accept another position. Mr. Sergio J. Choy, Clinical Instructor in Nursing, effective March 31, 1985, to accept another position. Ms. Barbara Dobish, Instructor in Nursing, effective May 31, 1985, for personal reasons. Mr. Paul Farineau, Clinical Instructor in Nursing, effective March 31, 1985, to accept another position. Dr. David A. Finbolt, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective May 31, 1985, for personal reasons. Mr. William Gartner, Assistant Professor of Commerce, effective May 31, 1985, to accept another position. Ms. Kristina M. Grant, Clinical Instructor in Nursing, effective March 31, 1985, to accept another position. Dr. Shakur Hamidi-Toosi, Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, Veterans Administration Medical Center, Salem Program, effective April 9, 1985, to accept another position. Mr. Carl M. Harris, Professor of Systems Engineering, effective August 31, 1985, to accept another position. Ms. Carolyn Ann Haskell, Clinical Instructor in Nursing, effective March 31, 1985, to accept another position. Dr. Carol R. Hassler, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, effective July 31, 1985, for personal reasons. Mr. W. Thomas Helfrich, Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, DeJarnette Center, effective December 31, 1984, for personal reasons. Ms. Brooke S. Ingold, Clinical Instructor in Nursing, effective March 31, 1985, to accept another position. Miss Jill Jaeckle, Instructor in Nursing, effective July 19, 1985, for personal reasons. Ms. Joli I. Jensen, Assistant Professor of Rhetoric, effective July 11, 1985, to accept another position. Mr. W. Reed Johnson, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective August 31, 1985, to accept a position as a Research Professor in the School of Engineering and Applied Science. Dr. James R. Kistner, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, effective April 38, 1985, for personal reasons. Mrs. Cherie L. Kitchell, Assistant Professor, Medical Center Social Work, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1985, for personal reasons. Dr. Norman J. Knorr, Dean of the School of Medicine, effective March , 1986, to return to teaching and research. Ms. Elizabeth Y Levy, Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, effective June 30, 1985, for personal reasons. Ms. Janet R. Linde, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective April 30, 1985, to accept another position. Ms. Elaine F. Litman, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective April 30, 1985, to accept another position. Ms. Carol L. Maxwell, Instructor in Nursing, effective May 31, 1985, for personal reasons. Mr. P. Kyle McCarter, Jr., Professor of Religious Studies, effective May 31, 1985, to accept another position. Mr. Thomas McCue, Assistant Professor of Commerce, effective May 31, 1985, to accept another position. Mr. David H. Miles, Associate Professor of German, effective May 31, 1985, to accept another position. Mrs. Kim M. Mitchell, Instructor in Nursing, effective May 31, 1985, for personal reasons. Ms. D. Helaine Lecturer, General Faculty, effective March 21, 1985, to accept another position. Dr. Ellito R. Pearl, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective May 31, 1985, to accept another position. Ms. Christine M. Reppucci, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective May 31, 1985, for personal reasons. Mr. Timothy Sigmon, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, effective May 31, 1985, to accept another position. Ms. Jane E. Wesselhoeft, Clinical Instructor in Nursing, effective March 31, 1985, to accept another position.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Donald Black as Chairman, Department of Sociology, for the period January 16, 1985 through August 31, 1989.Mr. Thomas E. Doran as Director, Medical Center Information Services, for the period May 16, 1985 through June 30, 1986. Mr. Elmer L. Gaden, Jr. as Chairman, Department of Chemical Engineering, for two years, effective June 1, 1985. Mr. Irving I. Gottesman as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for the periodJuly 1, 1985 through August 31, 1985. Mr. John L. Hudson as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective September 1, 1985. Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin as Assistant Dean of Students, for one year, effectiveJuly 1, 1985. Mr. Louis G. Martsolf as Replacement Hospital Project Manager, for three years, effectiveJuly 1, 1985. Ms. Maruta L. Ray as Associate Director of the Summer Session, for three years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Ronald J. Stump as Associate Dean of Students, for three years, effective September 1, 1985.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Miss Barbara M. Brodie as Assistant Dean for Graduate Programs, or one year, effectiveJuly 1, 1985.Mr. Walter J. Camp as Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, for one year, effectiveJuly 1, 1985. Mr. Theodore Caplow as Chairman of the Department of Sociology, for one semester, effective September 1, 1985. Mr. Melvin Cherno as Chairman, Division of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for five years, effective June 1, 1985. Mr. Ronald G. Dimberg as Assistant Dean for International Studies, for three years, effective September 1, 1985. Mrs. Priscilla O. Jobe as Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, for one year, effectiveJuly 1, 1985. Mr. Richard A. Merrill as Dean, School of Law, for three years, effectiveJuly 1, 1985. Mrs. Cynthia F. Raines as Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Programs, far one year, effectiveJuly 1, 1985. Mr. Mark Reisler as Assistant Dean for Administration, for two years, effectiveJuly 1, 1985. Mr. Joseph W. Ullman as Assistant Vice President, Administrative Computing Services, for three years, effective July l, 1985.

APPROVAL OF THE 1985-1986 BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY DIVISION
------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1985-1986 Budget for the University Division as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1985-1986 BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL DIVISION
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1985-1986 University Hospital Division Budget as recommended by the President and the Comptroller and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1985-1986 BUDGET FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1985-1986 Budget for Clinch Valley College as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President distributed and discussed a report on the status of current construction at the University.

ELECTION OF MR. J. PETER GRACE TO THE COUNCIL OF THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. J. Peter Grace, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the W. R. Grace and Company, be and he is hereby elected to the Council of the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs for a term of three years, effective April 1, 1985.

ELECTION OF MR. DANIEL K. FRIERSON TO THE COUNCIL OF THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. Daniel K. Frierson, President of Dixie Yarns, Incorporated, be and he is hereby elected to the Council of the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs for a term of four years, effective April 1, 1985.

MODIFICATION OF THE BY-LAWS OF THE COUNCIL OF THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the By-Laws of the Miller Center Council be and they are hereby modified to provide that the Fall meeting of the Miller Center Council shall be held in either September or October of each year.

APPROVAL OF HOSPITAL ROOM RATES, 1985-1985
------------------------------------------

1984-85

PERCENT OF INCREASE

AMOUNT OF INCREASE

RATE PROPOSED 1985-86

SEMI-PRIVATE

$260.00

3.8%

$10.00

$270.00

INTENSIVE CARE AND OTHER SPECIAL CARE UNITS

$415.00 to $950.00

8.7%

$35.00 to$40.00

$450.00 to $990.00

CLINICS/EMERGENCY ROOM

2.1%

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the patient care rates for services in the University of Virginia Hospitals be and they are hereby increased by an average of 7.0%, effective at the close of business on June 30, 1985.

CONTINUATION OF THE PROXY ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR ONE YEAR
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the President reconstitute the Proxy Advisory Committee as described in the Proxy Voting Policy dated June 5, 1982, for a term of one year, beginningJuly 1, 1985.

APPROVAL OF THE REPORT OF THE BAD DEBTS COMMITTEE
-------------------------------------------------

Library Fines and Charges

$15,901.17

Parking and Transportation Fines and Charges

17,876.26

Uncollectible Advances to Former Employees

10,285.16

Tuition and Fees

Tuition and Fees

52,238.75

52,238.75

University Student Loans

52,238.75

25,854.15

Other Charges

52,238.75

41,420.21

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the University Bad Debts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts the following accounts totaling $163,575.70: Library Fines and Charges$15,901.17Parking and Transportation Fines and Charges17,876.26Uncollectible Advances to Former Employees10,285.16Tuition and FeesTuition and Fees52,238.7552,238.75University Student Loans52,238.7525,854.15Other Charges52,238.7541,420.21 RESOLVED FURTHER, that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of the debts represented by such accounts.

APPROVAL OF 1984-1985 AND 1985-1986 BUDGETS OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATE FOR SPECIFIED DEPARTMENTS IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND ARTS AND SCIENCESSCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES Budget Proposal for Pratt BequestSCHOOL OF MEDICINE Budget Proposal for Pratt BequestSCHOOL OF MEDICINE Budget Proposal for Pratt BequestSCHOOL of ARTS AND SCIENCES Budget Proposal for Pratt Bequest
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BIOLOGY

CHEMISTRY

MATHEMATICS

PHYSICS

TOTAL

Student Support: Graduate and Undergraduate

\-0-

\-0-

\-0-

\-0-

\-0-

Faculty Salary Supplement

\-0-

\-0-

\-0-

\-0-

\-0-

Equipment

\-0-

$50,000

\-0-

$75,000

$125,000

TOTAL

\-0-

$50,000

\-0-

$75,000

$125,000

Research:

1985-86

Total

Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorter (Owens)

32,086

32,086

Support for Central Electron Microscope Facility (Flickinger)

22,538

22,538

Protein and Nucleic Acid Sequencing Facility (Savory)

35,000

35,000

High Resolution Mass Spectrometer Facility (Savory)

35,000

35,000

Lymphocyte Culture Center (Herr)

42,000

42,000

Magnetic Resonance Imaging Vascular and Flow Project (Teates)

68,500

68,500

Production of Pertussis Toxin for use as a Research Reagent (Hewlett)

32,834

32,834

Graduate Finance Committee for the School of Medicine (Peach)

80,000

80,000

Request for Laboratory Equipment for multiple investigators Usage (Veer)

15,000

15,000

Request for Pratt Fund Support (Rubel)

17,835

17,835

Image Processing (Attinger)

12,000

12,000

Medical Students (Peach)

13,010

13,010

TOTAL

$405,803

$405,803

1984-85

Total

RESEARCH: Electron Microscope Video System (N. J. Lenn)

$8,972

$8,972

TOTAL

$8,972

$8,972

BIOLOGY

CHEMISTRY

MATHEMATICS

PHYSICS

TOTAL

Student Support: Grad. and Undergraduate

47,500

25,000

115,000

7,000

194,500

Faculty Salary Supplement

\-0-

15,000

30,000

\-0-

45,000

Equipment

20,183

32,148

\-0- 50,000

102,331

TOTAL

$67,683

$72,148

$145,000

$57,000

$341,831

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the budget for the expenditure of funds from the Estate of John Lee Pratt as a supplement of appropriations made by the State of Virginia for the School of Medicine and the Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics in Arts and Sciences in the amounts of $133,972 for 1984-85 and $747,634 for 1985-86, as suggested by the department chairmen, as recommended by the Special Advisory Committee on Pratt Funds of the Center for Advanced Studies, and as approved by the President and the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt funds of the four departments in Arts and Sciences. The four departments designated in the Will were Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics; and the funds could be used in three categories displayed in the budget, scholarships for outstanding students, supplementation of faculty salaries, and equipment. The annual disbursement of the estate is one million dollars to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and Medicine.

BIOLOGYCHEMISTRYMATHEMATICSPHYSICSTOTALStudent Support: Graduate and Undergraduate-0--0--0--0--0-Faculty Salary Supplement-0--0--0--0--0-Equipment-0-$50,000-0-$75,000$125,000TOTAL-0-$50,000-0-$75,000$125,000

APPROVED:

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt Funds in the School of Medicine. In accordance with the Will, funds may be used by the School of Medicine for scholarships for medical students and research. The annual disbursement of the estate is one million dollars to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and Medicine.

Research:1985-86TotalFluorescence Activated Cell Sorter (Owens)32,08632,086Support for Central Electron Microscope Facility (Flickinger)22,53822,538Protein and Nucleic Acid Sequencing Facility (Savory)35,00035,000High Resolution Mass Spectrometer Facility (Savory)35,00035,000Lymphocyte Culture Center (Herr)42,00042,000Magnetic Resonance Imaging Vascular and Flow Project (Teates)68,50068,500Production of Pertussis Toxin for use as a Research Reagent (Hewlett)32,83432,834Graduate Finance Committee for the School of Medicine (Peach)80,00080,000Request for Laboratory Equipment for multiple investigators Usage (Veer)15,00015,000Request for Pratt Fund Support (Rubel)17,83517,835Image Processing (Attinger)12,00012,000Medical Students (Peach)13,01013,010TOTAL$405,803$405,803

APPROVED:

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt Funds in the School. of Medicine. In accordance with the Will, funds may be used by the School of Medicine for scholarships for resident students and research. The annual disbursement of the estate is one million dollars to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and Medicine.

1984-85TotalRESEARCH: Electron Microscope Video System (N. J. Lenn)$8,972$8,972TOTAL$8,972$8,972

APPROVED:

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt funds of the four departments in Arts and Sciences. The four departments designated in the Will were Biology, Chemistry Mathematics, and Physics; and the funds could be used in three categories displayed in the budget, scholarships for outstanding students, supplementation of faculty salaries, and equipment. The annual disbursement of the estate is one million dollars to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and medicine.

BIOLOGYCHEMISTRYMATHEMATICSPHYSICSTOTALStudent Support: Grad. and Undergraduate47,50025,000115,0007,000194,500Faculty Salary Supplement-0-15,00030,000-0-45,000Equipment20,18332,148-0- 50,000102,331TOTAL$67,683$72,148$145,000$57,000$341,831

APPROVED:

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad Debts

$1,859,067.09

Indigent Care

4,022,462.46

Total

$5,881,529.55

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts listed on University of Virginia schedule numbers 548 through 553, meetings for the months of March 21, 1985 and April 22, 1985, totaling $5,653,636.28 and Blue Ridge Hospital Division schedule numbers 616 through 621, meetings for the months of March 21, 1985 and April 22, 1985, totaling $227,893.27, consisting of the following:

Bad Debts$1,859,067.09Indigent Care4,022,462.46Total$5,881,529.55

RESOLVED FURTHER, that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of debts represented by such account.

APPROVAL OF STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND GOALS FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIAThe Goals of the University of Virginia
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following Statement of Purpose and Goals for the University of Virginia be and they are hereby approved:The central purpose of the University of Virginia is to enrich the mind by stimulating and sustaining a spirit of free inquiry directed to understanding the nature of the universe and the role of mankind in it. Activities designed to quicken, discipline, and enlarge the intellectual and creative capacities, as well as the aesthetic and ethical awareness, of the members of the University and to record, preserve, and disseminate the results of intellectual discovery and creative endeavor serve this purpose. In fulfilling it, the University places the highest priority on achieving eminence as a center of higher learning.

The University of Virginia seeks to achieve its central purpose through the pursuit of the following specific goals: To offer instruction of the highest quality to undergraduates from all walks of life, not only by transmitting established knowledge and skills, but by fostering in students the habits of mind and character required to develop a generous receptivity to new ideas, from whatever source; a disposition for applying the most rigorous criticism to all ideas and institutions, whether old or new; and ability to test hypotheses and reinterpret human experience; and a desire to engage in a lifetime of learning.To sustain liberal education as the central intellectual concern of the University, not only in the curricula of the College of Arts and Sciences, but also as a foundation for the professional undergraduate programs. To educate men and women for the professions in certain undergraduate and in graduate programs leading to degrees in the schools of Architecture, Business Administration, Commerce, Education, Engineering and Applied Science, Law, Medicine, and Nursing. To lead in the advancement and application of knowledge through graduate study and research and to disseminate the results among scholars and the general public. To attract and retain eminent faculty in order to provide the highest quality of instruction and leadership in research. To seek the ablest and most promising students, within the Commonwealth and without; and, in keeping with the intentions of Thomas Jefferson, to attend to their total development and well-being; and to provide appropriate intellectual, athletic, and social programs. To strive for diversity in the student body and in the faculty and to promote international exchange of scholars and students To provide for students and faculty an atmosphere conducive to fellowship and understanding and to their constructive participation in the affairs of the University and the community at large. To expand educational opportunities for persons with special challenges such as minority status, physical disability, ethnic heritage, or insufficient financial resources. To engage in research in the medical sciences and to provide innovative leadership in health care and medical services in the local community, the Commonwealth and the nation. To offer to the local community, the Commonwealth of Virginia and the nation the various kinds of public service and intellectual and cultural activities which are consonant with the purposes of the University. To provide continuing education programs of the highest quality to the Commonwealth and the nation. To cooperate with and assist other colleges, educational institutions, and agencies, especially in the Commonwealth of Virginia, by making available to them the facilities of the University and the experience and counsel of its members so as to contribute to education in the Commonwealth and beyond. To establish new programs, schools, and degrees, and to undertake such research as the needs of the Commonwealth of Virginia and the nation may require.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR RELOCATION OF 34,500 VOLT VEPCO LINE TO PARK PLACE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated March 14, 1985, between the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Virginia Electric and Power Company, which grants a 15 foot easement of right-of-way to relocate electrical service on property owned by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia be and it hereby is approved; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be, and they hereby are, authorized to execute and deliver said deed of easement.

TRANSFER OF LAND FOR RIGHT-OF-WAY TO THE DEPARTMENT OF HIGHWAYS AND TRANSPORTATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Approval of conveyance of certain real estate and a temporary easement over adjacent property near the intersection of Jefferson Park Avenue and Rouss Drive is needed for the reconstruction, operation, and maintenance of the intersection; and also a permanent easement for the location of traffic control signals near the intersection of Route 29 (Emmet Street) and Route 250 (Ivy Road) , is needed.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the Department of Highways and Transportation, dated May 22, 1985, which conveys certain real estate and a temporary easement over adjacent property near the intersection of Jefferson Park Avenue and Rouss Drive for the reconstruction, operation, and maintenance of the intersection; and also a permanent easement for the location of traffic control signals near the intersection of Route 29 (Emmet Street) and Route 250 (Ivy Road) in the City of Charlottesville with the approval of the Governor of Virginia be and it is hereby approved; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be, and they hereby are authorized to execute and deliver said deed.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE CHANGE IN THE NAME OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANATOMY IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE TO THE DEPARTMENT OF ANATOMY AND CELL BIOLOGY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the name of the Department of Anatomy in the School of Medicine has been changed to the Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE APPROVAL OF THE ADDENDUM TO THE CONTRACT BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY AND BARTON-MALOW CRS, A JOINT VENTURE, THE CONSTRUCTION MANAGER ON THE REPLACEMENT HOSPITAL PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee regarding the Approval of the Addendum to the Contract Between the University and Barton-Malow/CRS, A Joint Venture, the Construction Manager on the Replacement Hospital Project.

TRANSFER TO THE STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT OF MAINTENANCE OF A ROAD AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Clinch Valley College has requested, and the Department of Highways and Transportation has agreed to accept, the transfer of maintenance responsibilities for a road which is situated within the grounds of Clinch Valley College. The Board of Visitors, as the governing body of the University, must request such a transfer, pursuant to the Virginia Code Section 33.1--33.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the University hereby requests the State Highway and Transportation Commissioner to admit to the State Highway system a road beginning at a point 0.34 miles North of Route 646, extending 0.09 miles in a Southeasterly direction of the present Route 382, which said road is situated within the grounds of Clinch Valley College, a division of the University of Virginia; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be, and they hereby are, authorized to communicate this request.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The Board accepted for the period March 1, through April 30, 1985, $1,908,100 in private gifts and $410,900 in non-government sponsored programs. The grand total year to date figure for both stands at $12,940,300, as of April 3, 1985.

REPORT ON THE CAPITAL CAMPAIGN FOR THE UNIVERSITY
-------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the final figure for the three year Capital Campaign of $145.9 million included approximately $8 million of research awards from private industry as identified by the University's Audit Department.

Although these awards were actually received by the University, according to generally accepted gift reporting practices, these awards would normally be classified as sponsored programs rather than as gifts. Therefore, the $8 million in private industry research awards should not be included in the Capital Campaign totals.

RESCINDING THE OCTOBER 1982 RESOLUTION ON SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE ADMISSIONS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the resolution of October 15, 1982 approving a statement on admissions to the School of Engineering and Applied Science be and it is hereby rescinded, restoring for the School of Engineering and Applied Science, the policy approved by the Board on October 11, 1974, providing that offers of admission to out-of-State applicants be limited to such numbers as to assure that offers of admission continue to be made to all qualified Virginia applicants.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period March 16, 1985, through May 15, 1985, as presented by the Director of Audits, be and it is hereby approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF DECREASE IN THE INTEREST RATE ON UNIVERSITY FACULTY HOME MORTGAGE LOANS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that effective immediately, the interest rate on University faculty home mortgage loans shall be decreased from 12.5% to 11.5%.

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING SHORT TERM BORROWIINGS OF UP To $10,000,000 FROM TIME TO TIME TO BE EVIDENCED BY ONE OR MORE ENDOWMENT FUND REVENUE NOTES OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AND THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF VARIOUS DOCUMENTS WITH RESPECT THERETO
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University"), with the approval of the Governor of Virginia, is authorized to issue its bonds or notes pursuant to Section 23--30.01 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the "Act"), to provide funds for various purposes; andWHEREAS, the University desires to obtain temporary financing at any time and from time to time of up to $10,000,000 for various projects including the construction of a recreational facility on North Grounds and a student health facility, the addition to Gilmer Hall, the acquisition of real estate and equipment including but not limited to research, computing and instruction (the "Projects"); andWHEREAS, the University is authorized to enter into contracts and indentures to secure its bonds and notes issued under the Act and to provide for the rights of the holders thereof;NOW THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED:1. It is hereby determined that the University shall contract a debt by issuing one or more of its endowment fund revenue notes pursuant to the Act to evidence loans made to the University thereunder to finance, together with other available funds, on a temporary basis, the acquisition and construction as the case may be, of any or all of the Projects, and to evidence a back-up liquidity facility, if any, to enable the University to purchase or otherwise pay off other notes issued hereunder, and there is hereby authorized to be issued and sold for that purpose one or more endowment fund revenue notes of the University in a principal amount. equal to the aggregate of all advances outstanding thereunder to the University but not to exceed $10,000,000 at any time and from time to time and otherwise to be appropriately designated (such notes and any substitutions and replacements therefore are hereinafter referred to as the "Notes").2. The Notes shall be limited obligations of the University the principal of and interest on which are secured by, and payable exclusively from, the same portion of its endowment fund from and by which its $7,500,000 Endowment Fund Revenue Bonds of 1982 (the "1982 Bonds"), its $15,000,000 Endowment Fund Demand Revenue Notes, Series of 3983 (the "1983 Notes) and its $5,000,000 Endowment Fund Revenue Note, Series of 1984 (the "1984 Note"), are payable and secured. The Notes shall not be general obligations of the University, and the University shall not be obligated to pay the principal of or interest on the Notes except from that portion of the endowment fund and other revenues pledged therefore.3. The Vice President for Business and Finance and other appropriate officers of the University are hereby authorized to solicit requests for proposals for the purchase of the Notes and the provision of a back-up liquidity facility from interested parties and to accept the proposal(s) deemed by them to be most beneficial to the University in terms of interest costs, commitment and placement fees and related factors, and, subject to the other provisions hereof, the Notes shall be payable to the persons and issued as and when determined by the Vice President for Business and Finance and the purchaser(s) of the Notes and lender(s) providing the back-up facility so selected.4. The Notes shall be dated, shall be in such individual principal amounts, shall mature, shall bear interest at such rate(s) payable on such dates, and shall be subject to redemption at such times upon such terms, all as shall be determined by the Vice President for Business and Finance subject to the limitations set forth in the next sentence hereof. The Notes shall be in individual face amounts not exceeding $10,000,000 (with the aggregate principal amount outstanding under all of the Notes not to exceed $10,000,004 at any time and from time to time), shall mature not more than three years from the date of issue of the first of-the Notes, and shall provide for interest at (a) a variable rate not to exceed 65% of the prime lending rate (or an average thereof) of one or more nationally or regionally recognized commercial banks in the case of Notes evidencing loans to finance the Projects initially and at a variable rate not to exceed 70% of such prime lending rate (or an average thereof), plus an annualized commitment fee of not to exceed 1% of the principal amount available thereunder, in the case of Notes evidencing any back-up facility, or (b) a fixed rate not to exceed 8% or (c) any combination of variable or fixed rates within the foregoing limitations.5. In order to secure the Notes and to set forth certain other terms and conditions applicable thereto, the Vice President for Business and Finance and other appropriate officers of the University are hereby authorized, if requested by the purchasers of the Notes, to provide for the preparation of an indenture or similar document between the University and a corporate trustee (the "Indenture") which shall contain covenants of the University in the form of, and otherwise consistent with, those set forth in indentures previously executed by the University in connection with the issuance of the 1982 Bonds, 1983 Notes and 1984 Note, but with such changes, omissions and insertions as the officer(s) of the University executing it shall deem appropriate and as may be necessary to carry out the intent hereof.5. In order to set forth the terms and conditions upon which the purchasers or lenders will acquire the Notes initially or will provide a back-up liquidity facility to purchase the Notes or lend funds thereunder, the Vice President for Business and Finance and other appropriate officers of the University are hereby authorized, if requested by such purchasers or lenders, to provide for the preparation of any one or more of a Note Purchase Agreement, a Short Term Borrowing Agreement, a Line of Credit Agreement or other similar agreement between the University and such purchasers and lenders (together the "Note Purchase and Credit Agreements") which shall contain such provisions not inconsistent herewith and be in such form as the officer(s) of the University executing them shall deem appropriate and as may be necessary to carry out the intent hereof.In order to set forth the terms and conditions upon which the purchasers or lenders will acquire the Notes initially or will provide a back-up liquidity facility to purchase the Notes or lend funds thereunder, the Vice President for Business and Finance and other appropriate officers of the University are hereby authorized, if requested by such purchasers or lenders, to provide for the preparation of any one or more of a Note Purchase Agreement, a Short Term Borrowing Agreement, a Line of Credit Agreement or other similar agreement between the University and such purchasers and lenders (together the "Note Purchase and Credit Agreements") which shall contain such provisions not inconsistent herewith and be in such form as the officer(s) of the University executing them shall deem appropriate and as may be necessary to carry out the intent hereof.7. The Notes shall be signed by the manual or facsimile signature of the Rector of the University, the University's seal shall be affixed thereto or imprinted thereon and attested by the manual signature of its Secretary, and the Notes shall bear a 1985 series designation and contain such other customary ' provisions under the Act as the officers executing them shall approve, their execution thereof to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval.8. If any officer of the University who signs any of the Notes shall cease to be an officer of the University while the Note is outstanding, or if any officer of the University who signs any of the Notes shall not have held such office at the date of the Note, the Note so signed shall nevertheless be valid for all purposes.9. The Vice President for Business and Finance and other appropriate officers of the University are hereby authorized and directed to take all proper steps to have the Notes prepared and executed in accordance with their terms and the terms hereof, to deliver the Notes to the purchasers or lenders selected as contemplated by Section 3 hereof, and to draw monies down thereunder as and when deemed necessary by them to provide temporary financing for the Projects (but subject to the obtaining of necessary approvals of the Commonwealth of Virginia for any of such Projects as determined by counsel for the University prior to borrowing amounts thereunder for such Project).10. The action of the Vice President for Business and Finance and other officers of the University in undertaking preliminary arrangements for the financing contemplated hereby is in all respects ratified and approved.11. The Rector, Vice President for Business and Finance, Assistant Vice President for Finance, Secretary, Assistant Secretary and any other officer of the University as designated by the Vice President for Business and Finance, are hereby authorized and empowered for and on behalf of the University to execute the Indenture and the Note Purchase and Credit Agreements, to pay all reasonable costs and expenses of issuance (including attorney's fees), and to take such further action and to execute and deliver such further instruments and documents in the name and on behalf of the University as they consider necessary or desirable to carry out the intent and purpose of this resolution, the issuance of the Notes, and the consummation of borrowing thereunder.12. The Rector, Vice President for Business and Finance, Assistant Vice President for Finance, Secretary, Assistant Secretary, and any other office of the University, as designated by the Vice President for Business and Finance, are hereby authorized and directed to execute appropriate certificates setting forth, among other things, the expected use and investment of the proceeds of the Notes in order to show that such expected use and investment will not violate the provisions of Section 103(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, and the regulations issued pursuant thereto, applicable to "arbitrage bonds." Such certificates shall be in such form as may be requested by counsel for the University in connection with the issuance of the Notes.13. The Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University is hereby authorized and empowered to take any and all action it may deem necessary or desirable in connection with the authorization, sale, issuance and delivery of the Notes and the consummation of borrowings thereunder that may be deemed to require approval not previously given herein by the Board of Visitors.14. All covenants, obligations and agreements of the University contained or referred to in this resolution shall be deemed to be covenants, obligations and agreements of the University to the full extent permitted by the Constitution and laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. No covenant, obligation or agreement contained or referred to herein shall be deemed to be a covenant, obligation or agreement of any present or future member of the Board of Visitors of the University or any officer, agent or employee of the University in his individual capacity, and no individual executing the Notes shall be liable personally on the Notes or be subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the issuance thereof, no officer, agent or employee of the University shall incur any personal liability in acting or proceeding or in not acting or not proceeding, in good faith, reasonably and in accordance with the terms of this resolution.15. In accordance with the Act, the Governor of Virginia is hereby requested to approve the issuance by the University of the Notes pursuant to this resolution and the Indenture and the Note Purchase and Credit Agreements.16. This resolution shall be effective immediately, subject to the approval of the Governor of Virginia as set forth in the preceding section hereof.

COMPENSATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY AND THE CHANCELLOR OF CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that subject to approval by the Governor, the compensation of the President and the Chancellor of Clinch Valley College and the applicable fringe benefits be and they are hereby approved for the periodJuly 1, 1985 through June 30, 1985;BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that supplements from local sources in the amount of $29,570 for the President of the University and $15,587 far the Chancellor of Clinch Valley College be and they are hereby authorized for the periodJuly 1, 1985 through June 30, 1986, subject to the approval of the Governor.

STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT
--------------------------

President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., noted that this is the last regular meeting of the Board in which he will participate as President. He thanked the Board of Visitors for their continued support and assistance. He characterized his selection as the fifth President of the University as the greatest honor of his life, and he concluded by saying that it has been a very great pleasure to serve the University as its President.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSRETIREMENTELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following retirement was announced: Mr. Joseph C. Smiddy, Professor of Biology, Clinch Valley College, effective June 30, 1985. Mr. Smiddy has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1954.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person be and he is hereby elected Professor Emeritus;Mr. Joseph C. Smiddy, Professor of Biology, Clinch Valley College.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 4:14 p.m.
