---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1990'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1990) October 5, 1990
================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 5, 1990

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA October 5, 1990
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 2:30 p.m., in Open Session on Wednesday, October 3, 1990, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Edward E. Elson, President John T. Casteen, III, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Julie G. Lynn, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Elizabeth D. Morie, S. Buford Scott, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. present. Absent: Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Ernest H. Ern, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Raymond M. Haas, and Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 3:30 p.m., in Open Session on Friday, October 5, 1990, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Edward E. Elson, President John T. Casteen, III, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Julie G. Lynn, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., and S. Buford Scott present. Absent: Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Ernest H. Ern, Don E. Detmer, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Raymond M. Haas, Hugh P. Kelly and Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of May 25, 1990, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

STATEMENT BY THE RECTOR
-----------------------

The Board is obligated to report, under the revised Freedom of Information Act, whether public comment will be received at any of the forthcoming meetings.

On behalf of the Board, I hereby state that public comment will not be received at the 1990 October meetings of the Board and its Committees.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE RETIREMENT OF MR. RAYMOND C. BICE, JR., AS SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Jr., will retire as Secretary to the Board of Visitors after 21 years in that office. The effective date of the retirement is December 31, 1990.

ELECTION OF MR. ALEXANDER G. GILLIAM, JR, AS SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Upon nomination of the President, the Board elected Mr. Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., as Secretary to the Board of Visitors, effective January 1, 1991, for a term ending March 22, 1991.

ELECTION OF MRS. JEANNE F. BAILES AS ASSISTANT SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Upon nomination of the President, the Board elected Mrs. Jeanne F. Bailes as Assistant Secretary to the Board of Visitors, effective January 1, 1991, for a term ending March 22, 1991.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEFINANCE COMMITTEEBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT
-----------------------

The President distributed a draft of an "Institutional Profile" document containing a wealth of information about the University. He explained that this draft was edited by Nancy Tramontin. He expressed his thanks for an outstanding effort.

He spoke of the academic process which the University is now following, and advised the Board that drafts of the planning documents will come to the Board at the March meeting, following which these may be further refined. Dr. Detmer and Mr. Kelly and members of the staff are already working intensely on the document which he anticipates will be superb.

The President told the Board that he, the Rector, Mrs. Morie, and other University officials had visited residential colleges at Yale and at Harvard Universities. In examining these, he was impressed by the academic importance of these colleges. He noted that the Master of one of these is usually a scholar with established credentials. He pointed out that the commons rooms for faculty and students are essential to the intellectual life of the college. It was his observation that the arrangements for the colleges are not idyllic or perfect, and that they tend to pose some problems, but that the value of the colleges far outweighed the problems that they pose.

Mr. Casteen reported that the group came away from the visit with the impression that setting up residential colleges here is feasible, and that we can identify currently available houses which can be converted to structures that will house residential colleges. He noted that the challenges to what one might call the University's culture will be great.

At both Harvard and Yale, the first year students live together as they do at the University of Virginia, however after the first year the students at Harvard and Yale continue to be housed together in the same quarters for three years. He noted that at the University of Virginia we do not have available housing on the grounds for all of the undergraduate students. He also pointed out that here we find a culture where a large number of students reside in fraternity or sorority houses, and that some students enjoy the experience of living in apartments off grounds during some part of their undergraduate experience.

He advised the Board that he is in contact with other universities that have good residential college programs, and that conversations with our deans are underway. When these are completed, he said, there will be further reports about residential colleges to the Board of Visitors. He noted that we have a lot of work to do in this area.

The President concluded his remarks by stating that he is greatly impressed by the success of Monroe Hill College, and interest that has been shown in it.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION TO MR. J. HARVIE WILKINSON, JR.
---------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE VIRGIL S. WARD PROFESSORSHIP IN DIFFERENTIAL EDUCATION FOR THE GIFTED
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE W. H. VANDERBILT PROFESSORSHIP IN IN ASTRONOMY
-------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOHN C. COLEMAN PROFESSORSHIP IN THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CHANGE IN THE NAME OF THE PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL CHAIR IN PROFESSIONAL ACCOUNTING IN THE SCHOOL OF COMMERCE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CHANGE IN THE NAME OF A COMMONWEALTH PROFESSORSHIP
--------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE REVISION OF THE BY-LAWS OF THE CLINICAL STAFF
-------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY AND THE CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE TO INSTALL A GAS LINE IN THE VICINITY OF THE FONTANA FOOD CENTER IN THE NORTHWEST PORTION OF THE GROUNDS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AND VIRGINIA ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY TO MAINTAIN AN EXISTING ELECTRIC POWER LINE IN THE VICINITY OF THE UNIVERSITY POLICE DEPARTMENT BUILDING AND ROUTE 29/250 BY-PASS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO THE PRESIDENT TO NOMINATE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OR SENIOR UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATORS TO THE UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATION BOARDS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN THE PER SHARE CONSOLIDATED ENDOWMENT INCOME DISTRIBUTION AND APPROVAL OF SPECIAL INCOME DISTRIBUTION FROM THE CONSOLIDATED ENDOWMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR 1990-1991
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DESIGNATION OF THE CORPUS OF THE COMPTROLLER'S ANNUITY TO SUPPORT THE CENTER FOR PUBLIC SERVICE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT OF THE MEDICAL CENTER ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------------

Bad Debt

$ 3,153,420.04

Indigent Care

20,027,840.14

\--------------

$23,181,260.18

AUTHORIZATION FOR CERTAIN UNIVERSITY ENTITLEMENTS FOR PRESIDENT'S SPOUSE
------------------------------------------------------------------------

AMENDMENT OF POLICY ON SIGNATORY AUTHORITY FOR CONTRACTS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS RELATING TO THE ACQUISITION OF GOODS AND SERVICES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ADOPTION OF THE GOVERNOR'S STATEMENT ON EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY AS UNIVERSITY POLICYExecutive Order Number 1 (90)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It is the firm and unwavering policy of the Commonwealth of Virginia to assure equal employment opportunity for all state employees and for all applicants for state employment.

This policy specifically prohibits employment discrimination on the basis of race, sex, color, national origin, religion, age, political affiliation, or disability.

State appointing authorities and other management principals are hereby directed to take affirmative measures, as determined by the Director, Department of Personnel and Training, to emphasize the recruitment of qualified minorities, women, disabled persons, and older Virginians to serve at all levels of state government.

This policy does not permit or require the lowering of bona fide job requirements, performance standards, or qualifications to give preference to any state employee or applicant for state employment.

Allegations of violations of this policy shall be brought to the attention of the Office of Equal Employment Services and Program Evaluations of the Department of Personnel and Training. No state appointing authority, other management principals, or supervisor shall take retaliatory actions against persons making such allegations.

Any state employee found in violation of this policy shall be subject to appropriate disciplinary action.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON SEPTEMBER 11, 1990
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that on September 11, 1990, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board, approved an easement between the University and the Rivanna Water and Sewer Authority for a water line in the vicinity of Stadium Road, Southwest of Scott Stadium.

APPROVAL OF THE SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
----------------------------------------

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported that the fiscal year to date total is in excess of $51 million, which is a record for giving to the University. Among other things the annual contribution to the endowment from gifts amounts to $15.5 million, very substantial support for research, $2.3 million, as well as gifts for other purposes includes some $15 million in unrestricted gifts. The report was accepted.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported that approximately $200 million in projects are currently in progress. He distributed a detailed list of the projects. The report was received by the Board.

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER TO SIGN DEED FOR SALE OF PROPERTY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ALTERATION OF CERTAIN LOAN TERMS WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA REAL ESTATE FOUNDATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AUTHORIZATION FOR THE SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER TO EXECUTE AGREEMENT CONCERNING FINAL COSTS FOR THE FORESTRY HEADQUARTERS OFFICE BUILDING AND ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT FACILITY AND TO NEGOTIATE EASEMENTS AND/OR SALE OF CERTAIN PROPERTIES ON THE SOUTH AND WEST SIDE OF VIRGINIA ROUTE 53
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AUTHORIZATION TO REDUCE 1990-91 FACULTY SALARIES
------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1991-1992 CAPITAL BUDGET PROGRAM
------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL REPORT PERTAINING TO EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATEUniversity of Virginia John Lee Pratt Funds For Year Ended June 30, 1990
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unexpended Balance 06/30/89

1989-90 Expenditures

Board Approved Allocations(1) (1)Allocations include amounts approved by the Board of Visitors for 1990-91.

Unexpended Balance 06/30/90

Arts & Sciences

Biology

Student Support

$ 100,288.87

$ 91,981.28

$ 100,000.00

$ 108,307.59

Faculty Salary Support

(0.54)

0.00

0.00

(0.54)

\* \*Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research & Equipment

258,676.55

190,289.41

94,550.00

162,937.14

358,964.88

282,270.69

194,550.00

271,244.19

Chemistry

Student Support

7,798.22

35,144.00

116,050.00

88,704.22

Faculty Salary Support

21,716.08

21,915.84

16,000.00

15,800.24

\*Research & Equipment

282,549.87

462,513.05

186,900.00

6,936.82

312,064.17

519,572.89

318,950.00

111,441.28

Mathematics

Student Support

112,026.24

131,560.11

184,976.00

165,442.13

Faculty Salary Support

64,929.93

49,451.56

69,352.00

84,830.37

\*Research & Equipment

21,927.43

11,654.40

22,922.00

33,195.03

198,883.60

192,666.07

277,250.00

283,467.53

Physics

Student Support

99,867.62

0.00

23,800.00

123,667.62

Faculty Salary Support

29,032.98

108,376.78

150,400.00

71,056.20

\*Research & Equipment

412,434.47

66,173.21

212,550.00

558,811.26

541,335.07

174,549.99

386,750.00

753,535.08

School of Medicine

Student Support

130,479.82

111,002.05

296,000.00

315,477.77

\*Research & Equipment

706,773.90

487,642.64

772,700.00

991,831.26

837,253.72

598,644.69

1,068,700.00

1,307,309.03

$ 2,248,501.44

$ 1,767,704.33

$ 2,246,200.00

2,726,997.11

Adjustment for Negative Balance in 0-45950

(2,996,305.50)

Net Balance

$ (269,308.39)

Unexpended Balance 06/30/891989-90 ExpendituresBoard Approved Allocations(1) (1)Allocations include amounts approved by the Board of Visitors for 1990-91. Unexpended Balance 06/30/90Arts & SciencesBiologyStudent Support$ 100,288.87$ 91,981.28$ 100,000.00$ 108,307.59Faculty Salary Support(0.54)0.000.00(0.54)\* \*Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research & Equipment258,676.55190,289.4194,550.00162,937.14358,964.88282,270.69194,550.00271,244.19ChemistryStudent Support7,798.2235,144.00116,050.0088,704.22Faculty Salary Support21,716.0821,915.8416,000.0015,800.24\*Research & Equipment282,549.87462,513.05186,900.006,936.82312,064.17519,572.89318,950.00111,441.28MathematicsStudent Support112,026.24131,560.11184,976.00165,442.13Faculty Salary Support64,929.9349,451.5669,352.0084,830.37\*Research & Equipment21,927.4311,654.4022,922.0033,195.03198,883.60192,666.07277,250.00283,467.53PhysicsStudent Support99,867.620.0023,800.00123,667.62Faculty Salary Support29,032.98108,376.78150,400.0071,056.20\*Research & Equipment412,434.4766,173.21212,550.00558,811.26541,335.07174,549.99386,750.00753,535.08School of MedicineStudent Support130,479.82111,002.05296,000.00315,477.77\*Research & Equipment706,773.90487,642.64772,700.00991,831.26837,253.72598,644.691,068,700.001,307,309.03$ 2,248,501.44$ 1,767,704.33$ 2,246,200.002,726,997.11Adjustment for Negative Balance in 0-45950(2,996,305.50)Net Balance$ (269,308.39)

Allocations include amounts approved by the Board of Visitors for 1990-91.

Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts.

APPROVAL OF MARINERS' MUSEUM GROUND LEASE
-----------------------------------------

REVISION OF REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE PROCUREMENT OF VAULTS IN THE COLUMBARIUM AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ATTACHMENT A BYLAWS CHANGES 21 September 1990 APPROVED BY BYLAWS COMMITTEE, MEDICAL POLICY COUNCIL, AND CLINICAL STAFF
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I. All references to the "Hospital" shall be changed to "Medical Center."

II. All references to "Health Affairs" shall be changed to "Health Sciences."

III. All references to "Medical Policy Committee" shall be changed to "Medical Policy Council."

IV. All references to "Chairman" shall be changed to "Chair." All references to "Chairmen" shall be changed to read "Chairs."

V. All references to "he" shall be changed to "he/she." All references to "his" shall be changed to read "his/her."

VI. Change all references to "Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals" to read "Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations." Change all references to "JCAH" to read "JCAHO."

VIII. On Page 4, Article III, Section 2, Qualifications for Membership, a.

Replace the second clause of the first sentence as shown below.

This is done to add health status, a requirement of the JCAHO.

(2) can sufficiently document their experience, training, professional competence, adherence to professional ethics, good reputation, health status, and ability to work with others to the respective departmental chair to assure the Medical Policy Council that their patients will receive high quality medical care; and

X. On Page 9, Section 3.a.

a. Delete "At least 60 days prior to the final scheduled Medical Policy Council meeting in the Clinical Staff year" and replace with "The reappointment process is conducted throughout the year for those practitioners whose privileges are due for review."

This is done to reflect the current practice of the Credentials Committee.

This is done to comply with JCAHO requirements.

XII. Page 9, Section 3. b. Reappointment Process. Add "as indicated by the results of quality assurance activities and other reasonable indicators" in the first sentence after "...treatment of patients."

XIII. On Page 11, delete Paragraph C. which allows the Executive Director to permit a physician serving a locum tenens member of the Clinical Staff to attend patients without being appointed to the Clinical Staff. This is redundant with the provisions for temporary privileges.

XIV. On Page 13, add a new section E as follows and re-number the subsequent sections.

E. Automatic Suspension - the Vice President for Health Sciences, the Executive Director of the Medical Center and Department Chairs shall each have authority to automatically suspend the clinical privileges of a practitioner.

2\. The suspended practitioner's department chair shall have authority to provide for alternative medical coverage for the patients of the suspended practitioner still in the Medical Center at the time of such suspension. The wishes of the patients shall be considered where feasible in the selection of such alternative practitioners.

3\. Such suspension shall remain in effect until the intended disciplinary action is effective, except as the department chair, the Grievance Committee, or the Medical Policy Council may otherwise provide for good cause.

XVI. On Page 20, add a new section 6, shown below, and re-number the subsequent sections.

Section 6 - Removing Elected Officers

A. Elected Officers may be removed by a two-thirds vote of the members of the clinical staff. The clinical staff can, by a two-thirds vote, remove an elected officer, declare a vacancy, and fill the vacancy with an interim position.

XVIII. On Page 24, change "Chairman, Department of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation" to "Chair, Department of Orthopedics."

Add a line, "Chair, Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation."

Change "Chairman, Department of Otolaryngology and Maxillofacial Surgery" to "Chair, Department of Otolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery."

Change "Chairman, Department of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery" to "Chair, Department of Plastic Surgery."

XIX. On Page 26, Section e, delete the old section and replace it with the language shown below. This was done to reflect changes in the Medical Policy Council Agenda Committee.

e. Chair of the Medical Policy Council

XX. On Page 30, Section 4, Quorum, change "twenty percent" to read "twenty-five percent (25%)." This was done to conform to the 25% attendance requirement in Section 9 on Page 30.

XXI. On Page 30, delete Section 8, Clinico-Pathological Conference, and re-number subsequent sections.

XXII. On Page 32, Article XV: AMENDMENTS, in the next to last sentence which discusses who may ultimately approve amendments to the Clinical Staff Bylaws, delete the phrase "Health Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors" and replace it with the phrase "Clinical Staff."

XXIII. On Page 34 Section 2 in the Rules and Regulations, add a new paragraph 3 (shown below) and re-number the subsequent sections.

3\. A member of the Housestaff who is a licensed physician in a residency program in the University Medical Center may, under Clinical Staff supervision, write patient care orders, insure the prompt completeness and accuracy of the medical record, and the transmittal of necessary special instructions and reports of the condition of the patient to the referring or other health practitioners and to relatives of the patient. Whenever these duties are transferred to another housestaff officer who is a licensed physician, a note covering the transfer of duties shall be entered on the progress note of the medical record. All physician members of the clinical care team are permitted to write patient care orders. Each medical department shall develop a brief plan describing how attending physicians supervise and evaluate housestaff officers. Copies of these plans will be kept in the Medical Staff and Residency Office.

XXV. Replace Page 44, Appendix I, Patient Bill of Rights, with the most current Patient Bill of Rights, Hospital Policy 26 (R).

XXVI. Delete pages 61 through 70, Appendix III, Senate of the University of Virginia. The description of the faculty senate is redundant and does not need to be included in the Bylaws.

XXVII. On page 71, Appendix IV, Disaster Plan, delete the one-page summary and re-number the subsequent appendices.

XXVIII. On page 73, Appendix VI, Code of Virginia Definition of Death. Delete this page and re-number the subsequent appendices.

end of file c:\\wp\\LAWS

ATTACHMENT BDRAFTAGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA REAL ESTATE FOUNDATION AND THE DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY CONCERNING FINAL COSTS FOR THE FORESTRY HEADQUARTERS OFFICE BUILDING AND ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT FACILITYrenumbered, no b. in August 13 draft
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LARRY WHITE NOTES: additions are underscored, deletions are deleted

This Agreement reflects understandings and commitments reached among the University of Virginia ("University"), the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation ("Foundation"), and the Virginia Department of Forestry ("Forestry"), concerning financial and other commitments related to the construction of a Forestry headquarters office building and administrative support facility on the Hillcrest site west of Virginia Route 20 and south of Interstate Route 64.

J. W. Garner, State Forester Department of Forestry

Date

Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr.

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer University of Virginia

Date

David-Westy Executive Director University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation

Date

3:93/795M
