---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1992'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1992) March 28, 1992
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 28, 1992

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA March 28, 1992
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 4:00 p.m., in Open Session, on Thursday, March 26, 1992, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Rector Pro Tem, President John T. Casteen, III, Adam S. Arthur, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Warner N. Dalhouse, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., S. Buford Scott and Albert H. Small. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Don E. Detmer, Thomas H. Jackson, Ernest H. Ern, Robert D. Sweeney and Mrs. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 12:30 p.m., in Open Session, on Saturday, March 28, 1992, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Hovey S. Dabney, President John T. Casteen, III, Adam S. Arthur, Mortimer M. Caplin, N. Thomas Connally, Warner N. Dalhouse, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., S. Buford Scott, Albert H. Small. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Thomas H. Jackson, Robert D. Sweeney, Don E. Detmer, Ernest H. Ern, and Mrs. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of January 25, 1992, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

INTRODUCTION OF THE NEW BOARD MEMBERS
-------------------------------------

Mr. Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Rector Pro Tem, introduced the three new Board Members: Mr. Mortimer M. Caplin, Chevy Chase, Maryland, Mr. Warner N. Dalhouse, Roanoke, Virginia, and Mr. Albert H. Small, Bethesda, Maryland.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing the appointment of certain officers of the Board and to consider personnel matters involving the appointment, assignment, promotion, performance, demotion, salaries, disciplining, or resignation of faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A. (1) of The Code of Virginia.(b) That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and considering reports and recommendations of the Internal Auditor related to the recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, including the Center for Russian and East European Studies, the Music Department, the Department of Student Health, the Housing Department, Administrative Computing-Data Security, the McKim and Blue Ridge Hospital Post Offices, Medical Center Computing - Systems Management Facility, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of The Code of Virginia.(c) That the Special Committee on the Nomination of a Non-Voting Student on the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of considering the appointment of a student member to the Board of Visitors in accordance with Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of The Code of Virginia.(d) That the External Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing fund-raising activities in preparation for the Capital Campaign as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (8) of The Code of Virginia.(e) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for consultation with the General Counsel pertaining to actual and probable litigation, or other specific legal matters requiring the provision of legal advice by Counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of The Code of Virginia.(f) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing certain investment and real estate matters which if made public initially they may adversely affect the University's financial interests, including the long term lease transaction and potential purchase of property, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A. (6) of The Code of Virginia.

ELECTION OF MR. HOVEY S. DABNEY AS RECTOR OF THE UNIVERSITY
-----------------------------------------------------------

In accordance with the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1991, and in compliance with the provisions of the Code of Virginia, Section 23-74, Mr. Hovey S. Dabney was unanimously elected as the Rector of the University of Virginia for a four-year term.

ELECTION TO FILL VACANCY ON THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
---------------------------------------------------

In accordance with the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1991, and in compliance with the Code of Virginia, Section 23-75, Mr. Robert G. Butcher, Jr. was elected to serve on the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors until the Annual Meeting in May 1992.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEFINANCE COMMITTEEBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEEEXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the Standing Committees to serve until the Annual Meeting in May 1992. The Committee assignments are as follows: HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEJ. Thomas Hulvey, ChairN. Thomas ConnallyEvans B. JesseeLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.Elizabeth D. MorieAlbert H. Small FINANCE COMMITTEERobert G. Butcher, Jr., ChairW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.Warner N. DalhouseArnold H. LeonS. Buford ScottAlbert H. Small BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEElizabeth D. Morie, ChairAdam S. ArthurMortimer M. CaplinEvans B. JesseeArnold H. LeonS. Buford Scott STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., ChairAdam S. ArthurRobert G. Butcher, Jr.Mortimer M. CaplinWaller H. HorsleyPatricia M. KlugeFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr. EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEWaller H. Horsley, ChairAdam S. ArthurN. Thomas ConnallyJ. Thomas HulveyPatricia M. KlugeLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr. AUDIT COMMITTEES. Buford Scott, ChairMortimer M. CaplinWarner N. DalhouseArnold H. Leon EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEEArnold H. Leon, ChairW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.N. Thomas ConnallyWarner N. DalhousePatricia M. KlugeS. Buford ScottAlbert H. Small

The Rector, Mr. Hovey S. Dabney, is an ex officio member of all Committees.

APPOINTMENT OF NON-VOTING STUDENT MEMBER TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
-----------------------------------------------------------------

On motion of Mr. W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Chair of the Special Committee on Nominating a Non-Voting Student on the Board of Visitors, the Board elected Mr. J. Scott Ballenger as a non-voting student member of the Board of Visitors for the period April 15, 1992 through April 14, 1993, as prescribed in Section 2.21 of the Manual.

ELECTION OF MR. ALEXANDER G. GILLIAM, JR., AS SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In accordance with the 1991 Manual of the Board of Visitors and in compliance with the Code of Virginia, Section 23-74, Mr. Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., was elected as Secretary to the Board of Visitors, for a term of four years.

DISCUSSION OF BOARD MEETING SCHEDULE
------------------------------------

The Rector and the President discussed the dates for the next Board meeting, which will begin on May 21. The President said that an attempt will be made to cut down on the amount of material presented to the Board at meetings, and that the time instead will be used to focus on issues and policy. Typically, he said, the meetings will be planned to begin at mid-day Thursday and conclude at the end of the day on Friday.

The Rector asked for a consensus of the Board on when to hold a summer Retreat; July remains the favored month.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT
-----------------------

The President reported that the Swiss Minister of Justice, Federal Councillor Arnold Koller, and Mr. Christian Blickenstorfer, the Minister at the Embassy of Switzerland in Washington, would be visiting the University in the afternoon and that they and their party will lunch with the Board at Carr's Hill.

The President noted that the University is in the process of beginning a thorough re-examination of its international activities and that he will report to the Board as this study progresses.

Finally, the President informed the Board that the speaker at Finals will be The Honorable John Charles Thomas, former Justice of the Virginia Supreme Court, and that Ms. Katie Couric will speak at Class Day/Valediction. He said that the choice of Justice Thomas and Ms. Couric, both of whom hold degrees from the University, was in line with the general policy of trying, where possible, to have distinguished alumni speak at Finals.

Following Committee meetings and a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session of the full Board resumed at 12:30 p.m., on Saturday, March 28, 1992.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. H. Alexander Arts as Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, for three years, effective February 1, 1992.Mr. Gary F. Banks as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period December 1, 1991 through June 30, 1993.Dr. Elizabeth M. Bebin as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective February 1, 1992.Ms. Rebecca L. Bowman as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective January 1, 1992.Dr. Stephen H. Caldwell as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period March 1, 1992 through February 28, 1995.Mr. Andrew T. Ceperley as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period February 1, 1992 through June 30, 1993.Mr. Bernard J. Cosby as Research Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective October 1, 1991.Ms. Louisa L. Fingerhood as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period January 1, 1992 through June 30, 1992.Mr. Charles B. Fitzgerald as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period February 1, 1992 through June 30, 1994.Ms. Elizabeth A. Flanagan as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period December 10, 1991 through June 30, 1994.Mr. Stephen G. Graber as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective January 1, 1992.Mr. Shiferaw Gurmu as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Donald P. Holmes as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period February 1, 1992 through June 30, 1993.Mr. Shahir Kassam-Adams as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period January 2, 1992 through June 30, 1993.Ms. Gail L. Kongable-Beckman as Research Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for the period January 1, 1992 through June 30, 1993.Mr. Allen Lynch as Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. James E. McGowan as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective January 6, 1992.Mr. B. Saunders Midyette as Assistant Professor, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period December 2, 1991 through June 30, 1994.Dr. James K. Moles, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for the period November 1, 1991 through June 30, 1994.Ms. Marianne Murdock as Instructor, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period November 25, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Dr. Thomas N. Pajewski as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective February 1, 1992.Mr. Chong Mo Pak as Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective January 16, 1992.Mr. Yunbae Pak as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective February 1, 1992.Mr. Douglas B. Smith as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective January 1, 1992.Ms. Lisa A. Waterbury as Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective January 1, 1992.Ms. Nancy L. Wayne as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective November 1, 1991.Mr. Daniel T. Wilson as Lecturer, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective October 1, 1991.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of Chairholder(s)Mr. Robert G. Bryant as Commonwealth Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. James E. Ferguson, II as Mamie A. Jessup Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective November 1, 1991. Dr. Ferguson will continue as Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology.Mr. James R. Freeland as Sponsors Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Raymond M. Haas as University Professor and Professor of Commerce, effective January 1, 1993.Mr. James D. Hamilton as A. Willis Robertson Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Sally M. Jones as Carman G. Blough Visiting Professor of Accounting, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Elizabeth S. Scott as University Professor, effective February 1, 1992.Mr. William B. Taylor as Commonwealth Professor of History, effective September 1, 1992.(b) Leaves of Absence of Chairholder(s)Mr. John A. Hetherington, David A. Harrison Professor of Law, with pay, for the period February 10, 1992 through March 22, 1992, for medical reasons.Dr. Dudley F. Rochester, E. Cato Drash Professor of Pulmonary Medicine, with partial pay, for the period July 1, 1992 through March 31, 1993, to do research.Mr. Leonard L. Scott, Jr., Joseph Moore McConnell and David Meade Bernard, Professor of Mathematics, without pay, for the period January 16, 1992 through May 31, 1992, to do research.(c) Change of Title of Chairholder(s)Mr. Douglas T. Day from Commonwealth Professor of English to Clifton Waller Barrett Professor of English, effective January 16, 1992.Mr. G. Edward White from John Barbee Minor Professor of Law, Sullivan & Cromwell Professor of Law, and Professor of History to John Barbee Minor Professor of Law, Professor of History, and University Professor, effective July 1, 1992.(d) Retirement of Chairholder(s)Mr. William W. Abbot, James Madison Professor of History, effective June 30, 1992. Mr. Abbot has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1966.Mr. Franklyn N. Arnhoff, John Edward Fowler Professor of Clinical Psychology and University Professor of Psychology, effective May 31, 1992. Mr. Arnhoff has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1970.Mr. Thomas F. Bergin, William Minor Lile Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1992. Mr. Bergin has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1963.Mr. Frank L. Hereford, Jr., Robert C. Taylor Professor of Physics, effective May 31, 1992. Mr. Hereford has been a member of the faculty since September 16, 1948.Mr. Shao-Chuan Leng, Dorothy Danforth Compton Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 31, 1992. Mr. Leng has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1950.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Brian D. Andrews as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Kathleen M. Balutansky as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. James T. Callahan as Visiting Scholar in Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Federico Colombo as Visiting Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective February 1, 1992.Mr. W. James Copeland, Jr. as Professor, General Faculty, for five years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Claudette E. Dalton as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period April 1, 1992 through May 31, 1992.Mr. Douglas W. DeSimone as Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, for three years, effective January 1, 1992.Mr. Michael H. Engel as Visiting Scholar in Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. James J. Finnerty as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, part time, for three years, effective January 1, 1992.Mr. Tor A. Fjeldly as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for the period December 1, 1991 through August 15, 1992.Mr. Arthur E. Freedlender as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period December 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992.Ms. Mary C. Gilliam as Associate Professor, General Faculty, School of Law Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Linda A. Gonder-Frederick as Research Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, part time, for the period January 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992.Mr. Piet C. Gugelot as Research Professor of Physics, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Mr. John K. Haviland as Visiting Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for one year, effective December 1, 1991.Mr. Laurin L. Henry as Scholar in Residence, Center for Public Service, for one year, effective January 1, 1992.Mr. Harold A. Hopkins as Research Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, General Medical Faculty, for the period October 1, 1991 through January 31, 1992.Ms. Laura C. Huang as Associate Professor of Pharmacology, General Medical Faculty, part time, for one year, effective January 1, 1992.Ms. Janice L. Knight as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. William R. Krause as Visiting Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for one semester, effective January 16, 1992.Mr. Gordon W. Laurie as Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, for three years, effective December 16, 1991.Ms. Jeanne M. Liedtka as Associate Professor of Business Administration, for five years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Joseph N. Mait as Visiting Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective January 16, 1992.Ms. Mary P. Martin as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Kathleen M. May as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Colin A. McLaurin as Research Professor of Biomedical Engineering, part time, for one year, effective February 1, 1992.Ms. Janice L. McMillan as Assistant Professor of Education, for one semester, effective January 16, 1992.Mr. Ashim Mukhopadhyay as Research Assistant Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective January 1, 1992.Ms. Barbara G. Murphy as Associate Professor, General Faculty, School of Law Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Anne Mustain as Associate Professor, General Faculty, School of Law Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Laura L. Norling as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective January 16, 1992.Mr. Lawrence E. Payne as Visiting Professor of Applied Mathematics, for the period January 16, 1992 through March 15, 1992.Ms. Anne Perotin-Dumon as Visiting Associate Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1992.Mr. R. Jahan Ramazani as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. George F. Rich as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective January 1, 1992.Ms. Judith G. Robinson as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for three years, effective February 1, 1992.Ms. Mary V. Rorty as Lecturer in Women's Studies and Lecturer in Philosophy, part time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1992.Ms. Elissa B. Rosenberg as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Mantripragada B. Sankaram as Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective February 1, 1992.Mr. Thomas A. Shannon as Visiting Professor of Education, for the period January 16, 1992 through May 31, 1993.Mr. Randall R. Smith as Associate Professor of Commerce, General Faculty, for five years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Susan P. Squillace as Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period February 1, 1992 through June 30, 1994.Mr. W. Kenneth Stewart as Visiting Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective January 15, 1992.Ms. Patricia A. Trimmer as Research Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, for the period January 1, 1992 through June 30, 1992.Ms. Carolyn J. Weir as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Mark A. White as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the period January 16, 1992 through January 15, 1995.Mr. William R. Wilkerson as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for the period February 16, 1992 through June 30, 1993.Ms. Judith A. Wilson as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Laszlo Zaborszky as Research Associate Professor of Otolaryngology- Head and Neck Surgery, for the period December 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Mr. Chenggui Zhang as Visiting Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for the period February 1, 1992 through September 30, 1992.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Ms. Jann T. Balmer from Instructor in Medical Education, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for the period December 4, 1991 through June 30, 1994.Ms. Teresa P. Germanson from Instructor in Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty, for the period January 1, 1992 through June 30, 1992.Ms. Deborah E. McDowell from Associate Professor of English to Professor of English, effective January 16, 1992.Ms. Marjorie A. Rein from Instructor in Medical Education, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for the period January 1, 1992 through June 30, 1993.Mr. Richard M. Wright from Research Instructor in Anatomy and Cell Biology to Research Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, for one year, effective December 1, 1991.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Edmund Berkeley, Jr., Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, without pay, for the period January 1, 1992 through January 31, 1992, for agency convenience.Mr. Andrew C. Boynton, Assistant Professor of Business Administration, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1994, to do research.Ms. Mary L. Bun, Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, without pay, for the period March 1, 1992 through May 31, 1992, for medical reasons.Mr. Richard T. Eppink, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, without pay, for the period January 16, 1992 through May 31, 1992, to do research.Dr. David S. Fedson, Professor of Internal Medicine, with pay, for the period April 1, 1992 through March 31, 1993, to do research.Mr. Arthur E. Freedlender, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, without pay, for the period December 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, for medical reasons.Mr. Don Fullerton, Professor of Economics, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to do research.Mr. Robert F. German, Jr., Lecturer, General Faculty, with pay, for the period January 16, 1992 through May 8, 1992, to complete coursework for his doctorate.Mr. Robert F. German, Jr., Lecturer, General Faculty, with pay, for the period June 1, 1992 through August 15, 1992, to complete coursework for his doctorate.Ms. Marie H. Hanigan, Research Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, without pay, for the period February 1, 1992 through March 31, 1992, for medical reasons.Dr. Lennart Heimer, Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery and Professor of Neurosurgery, with pay, for the period January 1, 1992 through June 30, 1992, to do research.Dr. Mary M. Herman, Professor of Pathology, without pay, for the period January 3, 1992 through January 31, 1992, for personal reasons.Ms. Anne W. Humphries, Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, without pay, for the period February 13, 1992 through February 29, 1992, for personal reasons.Ms. Janice L. Knight, Assistant Professor of English, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to accept an appointment at the University of Chicago.Ms. Mary A. Kraehe, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, without pay, for the period July 1, 1992 through July 31, 1992, for agency convenience.Ms. Joyce G. Pastors, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, with partial pay, for the period January 1, 1992 through February 29, 1992, to extend the Modified Service Leave under the Faculty Leave Policy for faculty.Ms. Angelika S. Powell, Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, without pay, for the period February 1, 1992 through September 30, 1992, to serve temporarily as director of the Adult Education School in Germany.Mr. G. Carleton Ray, Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, with partial pay, for the period January 1, 1992 through May 31, 1992, because of insufficient research funds.Ms. Julie A. Roin, Professor of Law, with partial pay, for the period January 16, 1992 through May 31, 1992, to do research.Mr. John Ruvalds, Professor of Physics, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to do research as part of a sesquicentennial award.Ms. Elaine B. Steen, Lecturer, General Faculty, with pay, for the period January 10, 1992 through February 17, 1992, for medical reasons.Mr. John W. Stewart, Associate Professor of Physics, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through January 15, 1993, to continue to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Michael D. Bills from Visiting Lecturer in Business Administration to Lecturer in Commerce and Visiting Lecturer in Business Administration, for one semester, effective January 16, 1992.Mr. Franklin G. Miller from Instructor in Biomedical Ethics in Internal Medicine to Instructor in Medical Education, for one year, effective October 1, 1991.Ms. Joyce G. Pastors from Instructor in Pharmacology, General Medical Faculty to Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period December 1, 1991 through November 30, 1992.Ms. Cynthia W. Sanborn from Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, General Medical Faculty to Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period December 1, 1991 through November 30, 1992.Mr. Jon T. Saunders from Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective December 1, 1991.Dr. Helmy M. Siragy from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Heather A. Warren from Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies to Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for the period January 16, 1992 through January 15, 1996.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Fareeda A. Al-Refai, Assistant Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, part time, effective January 22, 1992, for personal reasons.Ms. Phyllis D. Arena, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective January 3, 1992, for personal reasons.Dr. Stephen H. Caldwell, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, effective February 29, 1992, to accept a tenure-track position in the Department of Internal Medicine.Mr. Gardener G. DeMallie, Jr., Lecturer, General Faculty, effective December 31, 1991, because of change in agency relationship between the University and the Virginia Continuing Legal Education.Dr. James J. Finnerty, Clinical Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective December 31, 1991, to accept a part time position in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology.Dr. Ron D. Fleming, Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 31, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. John A. Frutchey, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, effective October 31, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. Barbara A. Hobbs, Associate Professor of Comparative Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective December 31, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. Randy A. Hock, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective December 31, 1991, to accept another position.Ms. Annelle V. Hodges, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective May 31, 1992, to accept another position.Mr. Peter J. Kenny, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective December 31, 1991, because of change in agency relationship between the University and the Virginia Continuing Legal Education.Mr. Steven L. Klein, Research Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, effective November 30, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. Herbert Knight, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective February 28, 1992, to accept another position.Dr. Charles Y. Lui, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, effective November 26, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. David W. Martin, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective January 10, 1992, to accept another position.Mr. Luther B. McIntyre, Instructor in Electrical Engineering, effective January 16, 1992, for personal reasons.Dr. Jay M. Meythaler, Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, effective January 31, 1992, for personal reasons.Dr. Jewel M. Mullen, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective January 31, 1992, for personal reasons.Mr. Daniel E. Riley, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective February 14, 1992, to accept another position.Ms. Mary V. Rorty, Lecturer in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, part time, effective August 31, 1991, because of restructuring of the Center of Nursing Research.Dr. Mark L. Silen, Assistant Professor of Surgery, effective May 31, 1992, to accept another position.Dr. Janet L. Stringer, Research Assistant Professor of Neurology, effective December 31, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. Imadeddine A. Tabbara, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective December 31, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. Alan R. Tempkin, Clinical Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Salem Program, effective January 20, 1992, for personal reasons.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following Retirements were announced: Mr. Shmuel Agmon, Professor of Mathematics, effective May 31, 1992. Mr. Agmon has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1987.Mr. Frank E. Barham, Professor, General Faculty, School of Education, effective May 31, 1992. Mr. Barham has been a member of the faculty since January 1, 1975.Mr. Charles W. Beegle, Associate Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1992. Mr. Beegle has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1969.Ms. Joan S. Crane, Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective June 30, 1992. Ms. Crane has been a member of the faculty since June 2, 1969.Mr. Richard R. Curnish, Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, effective January 31, 1992. Mr. Curnish has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1967.Dr. Kemal H. Elbirlik, Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1992. Dr. Elbirlik has been a member of the faculty since January 1, 1972.Dr. Mary M. Herman, Professor of Pathology, effective January 31, 1992. Dr. Herman has been a member of the faculty since April 1, 1981.Mr. Jack A. Holt, Associate Professor of Commerce, effective December 31, 1992. Mr. Holt has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1977.Mr. Harold A. Hopkins, Research Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, General Medical Faculty, effective December 31, 1991. Mr. Hopkins has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1972.Mr. W. Reed Johnson, Research Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective May 31, 1992. Mr. Johnson has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1958.Dr. James G. Kavanaugh, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective June 30, 1992. Dr. Kavanaugh has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1968.Mr. Donald W. Kupke, Professor of Biochemistry, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Kupke has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1956.Mr. H. Gordon Larew, Professor of Civil Engineering, effective May 31, 1992. Mr. Larew has been a member of the faculty since February 1, 1956.Mr. Kenneth R. Lawless, Professor of Materials Science, effective May 31, 1992. Mr. Lawless has been a member of the faculty since October 1, 1957.Dr. W. Copley McLean, Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1992. Dr. McLean has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1956.Mr. William H. Runge, Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective June 30, 1992. Mr. Runge has been a member of the faculty since June 1, 1955.Mr. William Zuk, Professor of Architecture, effective May 31, 1992. Mr. Zuk has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1955.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Ronald A. Bouchard as Associate Vice President for Administration, for the period January 1, 1992 through November 30, 1993.Mr. Charles B. Fitzgerald as Associate Vice President for Development, for the period February 1, 1992 through June 30, 1994.Mr. David T. Gies as Chairman, Department of Spanish, Italian, and Portuguese, for three years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. William A. Jesser as Chairman of Materials Science and Engineering, for the period January 1, 1992 through December 31, 1994.Mr. B. Saunders Midyette as Chief Financial Officer, Medical Center, for the period December 2, 1991 through June 30, 1994.Mr. Robert E. Scott as Dean, School of Law, for the period February 13, 1992 through June 30, 1997.Mr. Roland H. Simon as Chairman, Department of French Language and Literature, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Dorothy Twohig as Editor, Papers of George Washington, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. John J. Yiannias as Acting Chairman, Department of Art, for one semester, effective January 16, 1992.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. James F. Childress as Chairman, Department of Religious Studies, for three years, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Lynn A. Davis as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Barbara J. Deily as Acting Auditor, for the period January 1, 1992 through June 30, 1992.Mr. James L. Kelly as Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Programs, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Robert J. Mattauch as Chairman, Department of Electrical Engineering, for five years, effective January 1, 1992.Mr. Bernard D. Mayes as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. John E. Scott, Jr. as Associate Provost for Research, for the period July 1, 1992 through August 31, 1993.Mr. William R. Wilkerson as Assistant Provost for Research, for the period February 16, 1992 through June 30, 1993.

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. William W. Abbot, James Madison Professor of History, effective June 30, 1992.Mr. Frank E. Barham, Professor, General Faculty, School of Education, effective May 31, 1992.Mr. Charles W. Beegle, Associate Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1992.Mr. Thomas F. Bergin, William Minor Lile Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1992.Ms. Joan S. Crane, Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective June 30, 1992.Mr. Frank L. Hereford, Jr., Robert C. Taylor Professor of Physics, effective May 31, 1992.Mr. Jack A. Holt, Associate Professor of Commerce, effective December 31, 1992.Mr. W. Reed Johnson, Research Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective May 31, 1992.Mr. H. Gordon Larew, Professor of Civil Engineering, effective May 31, 1992.Mr. Kenneth R. Lawless, Professor of Materials Science, effective May 31, 1992.Mr. Shao-Chuan Leng, Dorothy Danforth Compton Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 31, 1992.Dr. W. Copley McLean, Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1992.Mr. William H. Runge, Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective June 30, 1992. Mr. Runge has been a member of the faculty since June 1, 1955.Mr. William Zuk, Professor of Architecture, effective May 31, 1992.

DEATH
-----

CHANGE IN RE-ELECTION OF MS. SUSAN E. BRODT
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the re-election of Ms. Susan E. Brodt as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of January 23, 1992, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Ms. Susan E. Brodt, Associate Professor of Business Administration, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

CHANGE IN LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MS. MARY L. BUN
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Ms. Mary L. Bun, Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with pay, for the period July 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, for medical reasons, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of January 23, 1992, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Ms. Mary L. Bun, Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with pay, for the period July 1, 1991 through February 29, 1992, for medical reasons.

DELETION OF RETIREMENT OF MR. RICHARD A. DAVIDSON
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the retirement of Mr. Richard A. Davidson, Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, effective June 1, 1992, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of January 23, 1992, be and it is hereby deleted.

CHANGE IN RE-ELECTION OF MR. BERTRAM DONN
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the re-election of Mr. Bertram Donn as Visiting Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of January 23, 1992, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Mr. Bertram Donn as Visiting Professor of Engineering Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

DELETION OF RETIREMENT OF MR. FORD W. EDWARDS
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the retirement of Mr. Ford W. Edwards, Associate Professor of Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, effective June 1, 1992, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of January 23, 1992, be and it is hereby deleted.

19\. CHANGE IN ELECTION OF MR. DAVID N. GIBSON
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Mr. David N. Gibson as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 9, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of January 23, 1992, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Mr. David N. Gibson as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 9, 1991.

CHANGE IN ELECTION OF MS. KATHLEEN M. HUDSON
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Kathleen M. Hudson as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of January 23, 1992, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Ms. Kathleen M. Hudson as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

CHANGE IN RESIGNATION OF MS. MARY V. RORTY
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the resignation of Ms. Mary V. Rorty, Lecturer in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, part time, effective August 31, 1991, for personal reasons, as shown in the Miutes of the meeting of October 4, 1991, be and it is hereby deleted.

CHANGE IN ELECTION OF MS. JOAN SHETTIG
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Joan Shettig as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of January 23, 1992, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Ms. Joan Shettig as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEELECTIONS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty:Ms. Bobbie J. Peters as Lecturer in Education, Clinch Valley College, for the period January 1, 1992 through June 30, 1995.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted RESOLVED that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. James C. Willis as Associate Professor of Accounting, part time, Clinch Valley College, for the period March 1, 1992 through June 30, 1992.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointment was announced: Ms. Bobbie J. Peters as Director of Adult Studies and Continuing Education, Clinch Valley College, for the period January 1, 1992 through June 30, 1995, effective January 1, 1992.

REAPPOINTMENTS
--------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Bruce W. Wasem as Assistant Football Coach, Clinch Valley College, for the period March 1, 1992 through June 30, 1993.

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Edward L. Henson, Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Charles W. Lewis, Professor of Speech and Theatre, Clinch Valley College, effective July 1, 1991.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE T. DAVID FITZ-GIBBON PROFESSORSHIP IN ARCHITECTURE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Architecture a Chair to be known as the T. David Fitz-Gibbon Professorship in Architecture. The Board is grateful to the T. David Fitz-Gibbon Charitable Trust which made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SAMUEL L. SLOVER RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP
------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration a Chair to be known as the Samuel L. Slover Research Professorship. The Board is grateful to Mr. Frank Batten who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE F. PALMER WEBER RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the F. Palmer Weber Medical Research Professorship, this Chair to become effective at such date as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to the Smithfield Foods Corporation and others which made the establishment of this Chair possible.

NAMING OF THE NEW LINEAR ACCELERATOR FACILITY THE MOSER RADIATION THERAPY CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the new Linear Accelerator Facility of the Health Sciences Center be and it is hereby named the Moser Radiation Therapy Center.

NAMING OF THE MARTHA RANDOLPH HALL AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE THE BOWERS-STURGILL VISITORS CENTER
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Martha Randolph Hall at Clinch Valley College be and it is hereby re-named the Bowers-Sturgill Visitors Center.

APPROVAL OF THE POLICY STATEMENT CONCERNING ARCHITECT AND ENGINEER LIABILITY INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR PROFESSIONAL DESIGN SERVICES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the revised Policy Statement on professional liability insurance dated January 24, 1992, be and it is hereby approved; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the University Office of Risk Management shall make a determination as to the amount and type of coverage required on a project-by-project basis to respond to the degree of risk deemed to exist for each project.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL/ENGINEERING SELECTION FOR RENAL DIALYSIS/KIDNEY CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Hansen Lind Meyer (HLM) of Reston, Virginia, be approved for the performance of architectural services for programming, functional planning and schematic design for the Renal Dialysis/Kidney Center in the Multistory Building of the Hospital West Complex. At the option of the University administration, the firm may later be continued for completion of full architectural design services upon approval of the project by State government.

RESOLUTION HONORING MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM STURGILL AND MR. AND MRS. HURSCHEL BOWERS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Martha Randolph Hall is one of the original buildings at Clinch Valley College, having been donated to the College at the College's founding in 1954; andWHEREAS Martha Randolph Hall is being used as a women's dormitory; andWHEREAS Martha Randolph Hall is to be renovated to house such offices as admissions, financial aid, alumni relations and development; andWHEREAS this renovation has been made possible by the generous gift of Mr. and Mrs. William Sturgill and Mr. and Mrs. Hurschel Bowers, the largest private gift ever made to Clinch Valley College.NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors thanks Mr. and Mrs. Sturgill and Mr. and Mrs. Bowers for their generosity and wishes to honor it and them by renaming Martha Randolph Hall the Bowers-Sturgill Visitors Center.

APPROVAL OF ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES FOR 1992-1993
-----------------------------------------------------

Actual 1991-92

Amount of Inc/(Decr)

Percent Inc/(Decr)

Proposed 1992-93

Pledged for Facilities-University Hall

$15.00

$0.00

0.0%

$15.00

University Transit

$56.00

$2.00

3.6%

$58.00

Auxiliary Services Fee (including debt service)

$168.00

$20.00

11.9%

$188.00

Athletics

$104.00

$6.00

5.8%

$110.00

Student Health

$178.00

$0.00

0.0%

$178.00

University Union

$49.00

$0.00

0.0%

$49.00

University Union Programs

$16.00

$0.00

0.0%

$16.00

Capital Renewal Fee

$0.00

$24.00

N/A

$24.00

Arts Fee

$0.00

$10.00

N/A

$10.00

TOTAL

$586.00

$62.00

10.6%

$648.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the fee component of the tuition and required fees be and it is hereby established, effective July 1, 1992, in the amount of $648;RESOLVED FURTHER that the fee component be allocated for the 1992-1993 Session as follows: Actual 1991-92Amount of Inc/(Decr)Percent Inc/(Decr)Proposed 1992-93Pledged for Facilities-University Hall$15.00$0.000.0%$15.00University Transit$56.00$2.003.6%$58.00Auxiliary Services Fee (including debt service)$168.00$20.0011.9%$188.00Athletics$104.00$6.005.8%$110.00Student Health$178.00$0.000.0%$178.00University Union$49.00$0.000.0%$49.00University Union Programs$16.00$0.000.0%$16.00Capital Renewal Fee$0.00$24.00N/A$24.00Arts Fee$0.00$10.00N/A$10.00TOTAL$586.00$62.0010.6%$648.00

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REGULAR SESSION:

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 1991-92

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1992-93

Actual 1991-92

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1992-93

Tuition and Required Fees

Undergraduate and Graduate Schools Full Time

$3,326

$536

16.1%

$3,862

$9,536

$1,262

13.2%

$10,798

Medical Technology

$1,650

$246

14.9%

$1,896

$1,650

$246

14.9%

$1,896

Professional Schools

Graduate Bus. - MBA

$5,396

$1,376

25.5%

$6,772

$13,046

$1,098

8.4%

$14,144

Law - JD and Graduate

$4,802

$1,340

27.9%

$6,142

$11,482

$1,934

16.8%

$13,416

Medicine - MD

$7,316

$600

8.2%

$7,916

$15,856

$1,284

8.1%

$17,140

Music Lessons (13 one-hour\* \*The cost of half-hour lessons will be prorated. lessons per semester)

\--

\--

\--

$492

\--

\--

\--

$492

Activity Fees

General-All Students

$28

\--

\--

$28

$28

\--

\--

$28

Architecture

$20

$20

100.0%

$40

$20

$20

100.0%

$40

Commerce

$10

\--

\--

$10

$10

\--

\--

$10

Darden

$55

\--

\--

$55

$55

\--

\--

$55

Education

$10

\--

\--

$10

$10

\--

\--

$10

Engineering

$10

\--

\--

$10

$10

\--

\--

$10

Law School

$28

\--

\--

$28

$28

\--

\--

$28

Medicine

$76

$70

92.1%

$146

$76

$70

92.1%

$146

Nursing

$10

\--

\--

$10

$10

\--

\--

$10

Residential College Programming Fee

$100

\--

\--

$100

$100

\--

\--

$100

CONTINUING EDUCATION:

Current 1991-92

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1992-93

Undergraduate (Non-Degree Programs) Per Semester hour

Virginian

$108

$16

14.8%

$124

Non-Virginian

$143

$21

14.7%

$164

Graduate (Non-Degree Programs) Per Semester Hour\* \*Per semester hour rates for Educators in K-12 will be $116 for Virginian and $152 for Non-Virginian.

Virginian

$110

$17

15.5%

$127

Non-Virginian

$145

$22

15.2%

$167

Special Students Registration through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds Courses Per Semester Hour

Virginian

$153

$24

15.7%

$177

Non-Virginian

$500

$75

15.0%

$575

Masters Degree Programs Per Semester Hour

Virginian

$144

$22

15.3%

$166

Non-Virginian

$181

$27

14.9%

$208

Graduate Televised Engineering Per Semester Hour

Virginian

$144

$25

17.4%

$169

Non-Virginian

$310

$24

7.7%

$334

Application Fee for Certificate and Special Programs

$10

$15

150.0%

$25

Late Registration Fee

$10

$5

50.0%

$15

Change of Course Fee

$10

$2

20.0%

$12

Transcript Fee

$2

$1

50.0%

$3

Late Exam Fee

$5

$5

100.0%

$10

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the Academic Division be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1992: REGULAR SESSION:VirginianNon-VirginianActual 1991-92Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1992-93Actual 1991-92Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1992-93Tuition and Required FeesUndergraduate and Graduate Schools Full Time$3,326$53616.1%$3,862$9,536$1,26213.2%$10,798Medical Technology$1,650$24614.9%$1,896$1,650$24614.9%$1,896Professional SchoolsGraduate Bus. - MBA$5,396$1,37625.5%$6,772$13,046$1,0988.4%$14,144Law - JD and Graduate$4,802$1,34027.9%$6,142$11,482$1,93416.8%$13,416Medicine - MD$7,316$6008.2%$7,916$15,856$1,2848.1%$17,140Music Lessons (13 one-hour\* \*The cost of half-hour lessons will be prorated. lessons per semester)------$492------$492Activity FeesGeneral-All Students$28----$28$28----$28Architecture$20$20100.0%$40$20$20100.0%$40Commerce$10----$10$10----$10Darden$55----$55$55----$55Education$10----$10$10----$10Engineering$10----$10$10----$10Law School$28----$28$28----$28Medicine$76$7092.1%$146$76$7092.1%$146Nursing$10----$10$10----$10Residential College Programming Fee$100----$100$100----$100 CONTINUING EDUCATION:Current 1991-92Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1992-93Undergraduate (Non-Degree Programs) Per Semester hourVirginian$108$1614.8%$124Non-Virginian$143$2114.7%$164Graduate (Non-Degree Programs) Per Semester Hour\* \*Per semester hour rates for Educators in K-12 will be $116 for Virginian and $152 for Non-Virginian. Virginian$110$1715.5%$127Non-Virginian$145$2215.2%$167Special Students Registration through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds Courses Per Semester HourVirginian$153$2415.7%$177Non-Virginian$500$7515.0%$575Masters Degree Programs Per Semester HourVirginian$144$2215.3%$166Non-Virginian$181$2714.9%$208Graduate Televised Engineering Per Semester HourVirginian$144$2517.4%$169Non-Virginian$310$247.7%$334Application Fee for Certificate and Special Programs$10$15150.0%$25Late Registration Fee$10$550.0%$15Change of Course Fee$10$220.0%$12Transcript Fee$2$150.0%$3Late Exam Fee$5$5100.0%$10

The cost of half-hour lessons will be prorated.

Per semester hour rates for Educators in K-12 will be $116 for Virginian and $152 for Non-Virginian.

Other Miscellaneous Fees as established to recover expenses such as laboratory, materials, etc., on a basis of estimated cost.

OTHER:

Other contracted course and cooperative program tuition and required fee rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 1991-92

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1992-93

Actual 1991-92

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1992-93

Tuition and Required Fees

Full-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate

$2,300

$350

15.2%

$2,650\* \*Tuition $1,964 + Fees $686 = $2,650

$4,260

$700

16.4%

$4,960\*\* \*\*Tuition $4,274 + Fees $686 = $4,960

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below.

Part-time Students (less than 12 semester hrs per semester) Rate per semester hour

$69

$12

17.4%

$81

$151

$27

17.9%

$178

Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour

$69

$12

17.4%

$81

$105

$18

17.1%

$123

Non-Credit Courses - Rate per CEU

$25

$3

12.0%

$28

$55

$9

16.4%

$64

Meal Plan

19 meals per week

$1,550

$50

3.2%

$1,600

$1,550

$50

3.2%

$1,600

Other Fees

Application Fee

$15

\--

\--

$15

$15

\--

\--

$15

Applied Music Fee

$120

\--

\--

$120

$120

\--

\--

$120

Student Teaching Fee

$100

\--

\--

$100

$100

\--

\--

$100

The Applied Music Fee is applicable to Applied Music Courses 104, 105, 108, 109, 204, 205, 304, 305, 404, and 405 and is in addition to all other tuition and required fees.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to Clinch Valley College be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1992: VirginianNon-VirginianActual 1991-92Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1992-93Actual 1991-92Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1992-93Tuition and Required FeesFull-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate$2,300$35015.2%$2,650\* \*Tuition $1,964 + Fees $686 = $2,650 $4,260$70016.4%$4,960\*\* \*\*Tuition $4,274 + Fees $686 = $4,960 Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below. Part-time Students (less than 12 semester hrs per semester) Rate per semester hour$69$1217.4%$81$151$2717.9%$178Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour$69$1217.4%$81$105$1817.1%$123Non-Credit Courses - Rate per CEU$25$312.0%$28$55$916.4%$64Meal Plan19 meals per week$1,550$503.2%$1,600$1,550$503.2%$1,600Other FeesApplication Fee$15----$15$15----$15Applied Music Fee$120----$120$120----$120Student Teaching Fee$100----$100$100----$100The Applied Music Fee is applicable to Applied Music Courses 104, 105, 108, 109, 204, 205, 304, 305, 404, and 405 and is in addition to all other tuition and required fees.

Tuition $1,964 + Fees $686 = $2,650

Tuition $4,274 + Fees $686 = $4,960

A registration fee for part-time students will be $5 per semester hour. The graduation fee will be $50 per year.

APPROVAL OF CONTRACT RATES FOR DINING SERVICES FOR 1992-1993
------------------------------------------------------------

Actual 1991-92

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1992-93

Dining Service Contract

7 Day (19 meals)

$1,744

$ 96

5.5%

$1,840

9 Meals per week\* \*Rate and amount of increase include $30 additional cash. Percentage increase excludes the effect of the $30 additional cash.

1,504

126

6.4%

1,630

15 Meals per week

1,716

104

6.1%

1,820

50 Meals per semester\*\* \*\*Rate and amount of increase include $50 additional cash. Percentage increase excludes the effect of the $50 additional cash.

650

90

6.2%

740

100 Meals per semester\*\*

1,062

118

6.4%

1,180

Residential College

7 Day (19 meals)\*\*\* \*\*\*Plan eliminated in FY 1992-93.

$1,926

\--

\--

\--

9 Meals per week\*\*\*\* \*\*\*\*New plan in FY 1992-93.

\--

\--

\--

$1,800

15 Meals per week

1,890

$ 120

6.3%

2,010

100 Meals per semester\*\*

1,240

130

6.5%

1,370

Athletics

9 Meals per week

$1,826

$ 114

6.2%

$1,940

15 Meals per week

1,826

114

6.2%

1,940

19 Meals per week

1,860

116

6.2%

1,976

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the student contract rates for dining services be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective beginning with the Session 1992-1993: Actual 1991-92Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1992-93Dining Service Contract7 Day (19 meals)$1,744$ 965.5%$1,8409 Meals per week\* \*Rate and amount of increase include $30 additional cash. Percentage increase excludes the effect of the $30 additional cash. 1,5041266.4%1,63015 Meals per week1,7161046.1%1,82050 Meals per semester\*\* \*\*Rate and amount of increase include $50 additional cash. Percentage increase excludes the effect of the $50 additional cash. 650906.2%740100 Meals per semester\*\*1,0621186.4%1,180Residential College7 Day (19 meals)\*\*\* \*\*\*Plan eliminated in FY 1992-93. $1,926------9 Meals per week\*\*\*\* \*\*\*\*New plan in FY 1992-93. ------$1,80015 Meals per week1,890$ 1206.3%2,010100 Meals per semester\*\*1,2401306.5%1,370Athletics9 Meals per week$1,826$ 1146.2%$1,94015 Meals per week1,8261146.2%1,94019 Meals per week1,8601166.2%1,976

Rate and amount of increase include $30 additional cash. Percentage increase excludes the effect of the $30 additional cash.

Rate and amount of increase include $50 additional cash. Percentage increase excludes the effect of the $50 additional cash.

Plan eliminated in FY 1992-93.

New plan in FY 1992-93.

WRITE-OFF OF BAD DEBTS AND FREE SERVICE FOR THE MEDICAL CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------------

Bad Debt

$ 3,543,634.57

Indigent Care

10,617,596.92

\--------------

Total

$14,161,231.49

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Medical Center Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts included in the University of Virginia Medical Center Accounts Committee Reports for the meeting of January 20, 1992 which include the write-offs for the months of November and December 1991 totaling $14,161,231.49, and consisting of the following: Bad Debt$ 3,543,634.57Indigent Care10,617,596.92--------------Total$14,161,231.49 RESOLVED FURTHER that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of debts represented by such accounts.

APPROVAL FOR THE PROCUREMENT OF RADIOLOGY EQUIPMENT REQUIRED TO EQUIP A NEUROANGIOGRAPHIC LABORATORY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the University of Virginia's Medical Center desires to contract with a vendor for the provision of radiology laboratory equipment at an estimated cost of $2.5 million to perform neuroangiographic procedures in order to meet increasing demands for patient care service; andWHEREAS, the University will, through a competitive process, select a firm to provide this equipment;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the University may enter into a contract with the selected firm to provide this equipment and that the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be and he is hereby authorized to execute the contract prepared by the Chief Contracting Officer and approved by the General Counsel.

APPROVAL OF RESIDENTIAL HOUSING RATES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE FOR 1992-1993
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Facility

Utilities Furnished By Clinch Valley College

Rents 1991-92 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1992-93 Per Month

WS (Water, Sewer) G (Gas)

Houses(6)

WS

$354

\--

\--

$354

2 Bedroom Apt.(2)

WSG

$354

\--

\--

$354

1 Bedroom Apt.(2)

WSG

$324

\--

\--

$324

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Residential Housing Rates applicable to Clinch Valley College be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective September 1, 1992: FacilityUtilities Furnished By Clinch Valley CollegeRents 1991-92 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1992-93 Per MonthWS (Water, Sewer) G (Gas)Houses(6)WS$354----$3542 Bedroom Apt.(2)WSG$354----$3541 Bedroom Apt.(2)WSG$324----$324

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION FOR 1992-1993
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Utilities Furnished by UVA WS (Water, Sewer) E (Elect.) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heat Plant) C (TV Cable)

Rents 1991-92 per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1992-93 per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

FACILITY

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom Apt. (7)

WS,E,O,C

$360

$11

3.06%

$371

2 Bedroom Apt. (16)

WS,E,O,C

$441

$22

4.99%

$463

3 Bedroom Houses (16)

WS,C

$464

$24

5.17%

$488

E,O or G,E

Townhouses (5) 3BR

WS,C

$464

$24

5.17%

$488

E

Farmhouse (121 Mimosa)

Apt. 1,1 Bedroom

WS,E,O,C

$359

$11

3.06%

$370

Apt. 2,3 Bedroom

WS,E,O,C

$402

$20

4.98%

$422

Apt. 3,1 Bedroom

WS,E,O,C

$359

$11

3.06%

$370

Apt. 4,2 Bedroom

WS,E,O,C

$372

$19

5.11%

$391

Monroe Lane

1 Bedroom (15)

WS,G,C

$327

$16

4.89%

$343

E

Efficiency (1)

WS,G,C

$280

$11

3.93%

$291

E

404 Monroe Lane (2BR)

WS,G,C

$383

$19

4.96%

$402

E

412 A Monroe Lane (2BR)

WS,G,C

$413

$20

4.84%

$433

E

412 B Monroe Lane (Eff)

WS,G,C

$280

$13

4.64%

$293

E

Snowden

Apt. 1 (1BR)

WS,G,C

$325

$10

3.08%

$335

E

Apt. 2 (1BR)

WS,G,C

$325

$10

3.08%

$335

E

Apt. 6 (Eff.)

WS,G,C

$280

$13

4.64%

$293

E

Apt. 101 (3BR)

WS,G,C

$488

$24

4.92%

$512

E

Apt. 103 (2BR)

WS,G,C

$413

$20

4.84%

$433

E

Apt. 201 (1BR)

WS,G,C

$325

$10

3.08%

$335

E

Apt. 202 (1BR)

WS,G,C

$325

$10

3.08%

$335

E

Apt. 203 (2BR)

WS,G,C

$413

$20

4.84%

$433

E

Sundry

Vyssotsky Cottage (3BR)

WS,C

$402

$20

4.98%

$422

E,O

Upper Alden (3BR)

WS,O,C

$443

$22

4.97%

$465

E

Lower Alden (2BR)

WS,O,C

$389

$20

5.14%

$409

E

South Cottage (3BR)

WS,C

$211

$10

4.74%

$221

E,O

Carrs Hill Cottage (2BR)

WS,E,HP,C

$398

$20

5.03%

$418

McGuffey Cottage (Eff.)

WS,E,HP,C

$280

$13

4.64%

$293

Utilities Furnished by UVA WS (Water, Sewer) E (Elect.) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heat Plant) C (TV Cable)

Rents 1991-92 per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1992-93 per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

FACILITY

Upper Mews (1BR)

WS,E,HP,C

$327

$16

4.89%

$343

Lower Mews (1BR)

WS,E,HP,C

$375

$11

2.93%

$386

Monroe Hill Range (2BR)

WS,HP,C

$464

$24

5.17%

$488

E

Monroe Hill Apt. (2)

WS,HP,E,C

$398

$20

5.03%

$418

New College Faculty Apts (2)

WS,E,HP,C

N/A

N/A

N/A

$500

New College Principal

WS,E,HP,C

N/A

N/A

N/A

$621

Birdwood Properties

Cottage (1BR)

WS,C

$301

$15

4.98%

$316

E

Garage Apt. (2BR)

WS,C

$454

$14

3.08%

$468

E,O

Cash House (3BR)

WS,C

$477

$24

5.03%

$501

E,O

Birdwood House (3BR)

WS,C

$522

$27

5.17%

$549

E,O,G

Faulkner Property

Holly House Upper (2BR)

WS,E,O,C

$383

$19

4.96%

$402

Holly House Lower (1RM)

WS,E,O,C

$194

$9

4.64%

$203

Hedge House (2BR)

WS,C

$348

$18

5.17%

$366

E,O

Orchard House (5RMS)

WS,E,O,C

$194

$9

4.64%

$203

Carriage House (3BR)

WS,C

$409

$20

4.89%

$429

E,O

118 Okhurst-Upper (2BR)

WS,G,C

$402

$20

4.98%

$422

E

118 Oakhurst-Lower (2BR)

WS,G,C

$454

$22

4.85%

$476

E

409 Valley Road (2BR)

C

$385

$19

4.94%

$404

WS,E,O

411 Valley Road (2BR)

C

$385

$19

4.94%

$404

WS,E,O

503 Valley Road (1BR)

C

$314

$16

5.10%

$330

WS,E,O

Faculty Apartments

Apt. 11 (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$419

$21

5.01%

$440

Apt. 12 (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$419

$21

5.01%

$440

Apt. 14 (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$419

$21

5.01%

$440

Apt. 15 (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$419

$21

5.01%

$440

Apt. 21 (Eff)

WS,E,G,C

$300

$9

3.00%

$309

Apt. 22 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$320

$16

5.00%

$336

Apt. 23 (Eff)

WS,E,G,C

$285

$9

3.16%

$294

Apt. 24 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$320

$16

5.00%

$336

Apt. 25 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$325

$16

4.92%

$341

Apt. 26 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$325

$16

4.92%

$341

Utilities Furnished by UVA WS (Water, Sewer) E (Elect.) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heat Plant) C (TV Cable)

Rents 1991-92 per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1992-93 per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

FACILITY

Apt.27 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$325

$16

4.92%

$341

Apt.28 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$325

$16

4.92%

$341

Apt.31 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$325

$16

4.92%

$341

Apt.32 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$325

$16

4.92%

$341

Apt.33 (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$361

$18

4.99%

$379

Apt.34 (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$361

$18

4.99%

$379

Apt.35 (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$361

$18

4.99%

$379

Apt.36 (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$361

$18

4.99%

$379

E & G Property

Montebello (3BR)

O

$462

$23

4.98%

$485

WS,E

Big Morea (4BR)

WS,E,O,C

$344

$17

4.94%

$361

Little Morea (1BR)

WS,E,O,C

$310

$15

4.84%

$325

Sunnyside (4BR)

O,C

$591

$30

5.08%

$621

WS,E

Hotel D (2BR)

WS,E,HP

$292

$15

5.14%

$307

Monroe Hill House

WS,E,HP

$591

$30

5.08%

$621

Pavilions

Pavilion I

WS,HP,E

$557

$27

4.85%

$584

Pavilion II

WS,HP

$397

$20

5.04%

$417

E

Pavilion III

WS,HP,E

$557

$27

4.85%

$584

Pavilion IV

WS,HP

$397

$20

5.04%

$417

E

Pavilion V

WS,HP

$397

$20

5.04%

$417

E

Pavilion VI

WS,HP,E

$557

$27

4.85%

$584

Pavilion VIII Lower

WS,HP,E

$164

$8

4.88%

$172

Pavilion VIII Upper

WS,HP,E

$340

$17

5.00%

$357

Pavilion IX

WS,HP

$397

$20

5.04%

$417

E

Pavilion X

WS,HP

$397

$20

5.04%

$417

E

Blandy Farm

\*\* \*\*Agreement of service in lieu of rent has been approved. Curator's House

WS

\--

\--

\--

\--

E,O

Farmhouse

WS

$600

$0

0.00%

$600

E,O

Green Farm House

WS,E

$60.50

$0

0.00%

$60.50

E,O

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the faculty and staff housing rates be and they are hereby approved as indicated, effective July 1, 1992. The Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to increase the rates to market level when a property is vacated. Utilities Furnished by UVA WS (Water, Sewer) E (Elect.) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heat Plant) C (TV Cable)Rents 1991-92 per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1992-93 per MonthUtilities Paid by OccupantFACILITYPiedmont Estates1 Bedroom Apt. (7)WS,E,O,C$360$113.06%$3712 Bedroom Apt. (16)WS,E,O,C$441$224.99%$4633 Bedroom Houses (16)WS,C$464$245.17%$488E,O or G,ETownhouses (5) 3BRWS,C$464$245.17%$488EFarmhouse (121 Mimosa)Apt. 1,1 BedroomWS,E,O,C$359$113.06%$370Apt. 2,3 BedroomWS,E,O,C$402$204.98%$422Apt. 3,1 BedroomWS,E,O,C$359$113.06%$370Apt. 4,2 BedroomWS,E,O,C$372$195.11%$391Monroe Lane1 Bedroom (15)WS,G,C$327$164.89%$343EEfficiency (1)WS,G,C$280$113.93%$291E404 Monroe Lane (2BR)WS,G,C$383$194.96%$402E412 A Monroe Lane (2BR)WS,G,C$413$204.84%$433E412 B Monroe Lane (Eff)WS,G,C$280$134.64%$293ESnowdenApt. 1 (1BR)WS,G,C$325$103.08%$335EApt. 2 (1BR)WS,G,C$325$103.08%$335EApt. 6 (Eff.)WS,G,C$280$134.64%$293EApt. 101 (3BR)WS,G,C$488$244.92%$512EApt. 103 (2BR)WS,G,C$413$204.84%$433EApt. 201 (1BR)WS,G,C$325$103.08%$335EApt. 202 (1BR)WS,G,C$325$103.08%$335EApt. 203 (2BR)WS,G,C$413$204.84%$433ESundryVyssotsky Cottage (3BR)WS,C$402$204.98%$422E,OUpper Alden (3BR)WS,O,C$443$224.97%$465ELower Alden (2BR)WS,O,C$389$205.14%$409ESouth Cottage (3BR)WS,C$211$104.74%$221E,OCarrs Hill Cottage (2BR)WS,E,HP,C$398$205.03%$418McGuffey Cottage (Eff.)WS,E,HP,C$280$134.64%$293 Utilities Furnished by UVA WS (Water, Sewer) E (Elect.) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heat Plant) C (TV Cable)Rents 1991-92 per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1992-93 per MonthUtilities Paid by OccupantFACILITYUpper Mews (1BR)WS,E,HP,C$327$164.89%$343Lower Mews (1BR)WS,E,HP,C$375$112.93%$386Monroe Hill Range (2BR)WS,HP,C$464$245.17%$488EMonroe Hill Apt. (2)WS,HP,E,C$398$205.03%$418New College Faculty Apts (2)WS,E,HP,CN/AN/AN/A$500New College PrincipalWS,E,HP,CN/AN/AN/A$621Birdwood PropertiesCottage (1BR)WS,C$301$154.98%$316EGarage Apt. (2BR)WS,C$454$143.08%$468E,OCash House (3BR)WS,C$477$245.03%$501E,OBirdwood House (3BR)WS,C$522$275.17%$549E,O,GFaulkner PropertyHolly House Upper (2BR)WS,E,O,C$383$194.96%$402Holly House Lower (1RM)WS,E,O,C$194$94.64%$203Hedge House (2BR)WS,C$348$185.17%$366E,OOrchard House (5RMS)WS,E,O,C$194$94.64%$203Carriage House (3BR)WS,C$409$204.89%$429E,O118 Okhurst-Upper (2BR)WS,G,C$402$204.98%$422E118 Oakhurst-Lower (2BR)WS,G,C$454$224.85%$476E409 Valley Road (2BR)C$385$194.94%$404WS,E,O411 Valley Road (2BR)C$385$194.94%$404WS,E,O503 Valley Road (1BR)C$314$165.10%$330WS,E,OFaculty ApartmentsApt. 11 (2BR)WS,E,G,C$419$215.01%$440Apt. 12 (2BR)WS,E,G,C$419$215.01%$440Apt. 14 (2BR)WS,E,G,C$419$215.01%$440Apt. 15 (2BR)WS,E,G,C$419$215.01%$440Apt. 21 (Eff)WS,E,G,C$300$93.00%$309Apt. 22 (1BR)WS,E,G,C$320$165.00%$336Apt. 23 (Eff)WS,E,G,C$285$93.16%$294Apt. 24 (1BR)WS,E,G,C$320$165.00%$336Apt. 25 (1BR)WS,E,G,C$325$164.92%$341Apt. 26 (1BR)WS,E,G,C$325$164.92%$341 Utilities Furnished by UVA WS (Water, Sewer) E (Elect.) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heat Plant) C (TV Cable)Rents 1991-92 per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1992-93 per MonthUtilities Paid by OccupantFACILITYApt.27 (1BR)WS,E,G,C$325$164.92%$341Apt.28 (1BR)WS,E,G,C$325$164.92%$341Apt.31 (1BR)WS,E,G,C$325$164.92%$341Apt.32 (1BR)WS,E,G,C$325$164.92%$341Apt.33 (2BR)WS,E,G,C$361$184.99%$379Apt.34 (2BR)WS,E,G,C$361$184.99%$379Apt.35 (2BR)WS,E,G,C$361$184.99%$379Apt.36 (2BR)WS,E,G,C$361$184.99%$379E & G PropertyMontebello (3BR)O$462$234.98%$485WS,EBig Morea (4BR)WS,E,O,C$344$174.94%$361Little Morea (1BR)WS,E,O,C$310$154.84%$325Sunnyside (4BR)O,C$591$305.08%$621WS,EHotel D (2BR)WS,E,HP$292$155.14%$307Monroe Hill HouseWS,E,HP$591$305.08%$621PavilionsPavilion IWS,HP,E$557$274.85%$584Pavilion IIWS,HP$397$205.04%$417EPavilion IIIWS,HP,E$557$274.85%$584Pavilion IVWS,HP$397$205.04%$417EPavilion VWS,HP$397$205.04%$417EPavilion VIWS,HP,E$557$274.85%$584Pavilion VIII LowerWS,HP,E$164$84.88%$172Pavilion VIII UpperWS,HP,E$340$175.00%$357Pavilion IXWS,HP$397$205.04%$417EPavilion XWS,HP$397$205.04%$417EBlandy Farm\*\* \*\*Agreement of service in lieu of rent has been approved. Curator's HouseWS--------E,OFarmhouseWS$600$00.00%$600E,OGreen Farm HouseWS,E$60.50$00.00%$60.50E,O

Agreement of service in lieu of rent has been approved.

APPROVAL OF FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION FOR 1992-1993
------------------------------------------------------------------------

1991-92 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on session basis unless otherwise noted.

1992-93 Proposed

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Normal Increments Amt.

Interval

General Faculty (4) (4)The rank Lecturer is used for administrative faculty positions as well as instructional personnel whose assignment or status does not fit into the regular structure of faculty rank. Salary levels will vary in accordance with level of responsibility and experience.

Professor

$44,500

$44,500

(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

$36,600

$36,600

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

$29,800

$29,800

(2)

1 year

Instructor

$21,000

$21,000

(2)

1 year

Pre-Clinical Faculty (3) (3)Amounts in this category are stated on an annual basis. (4)

Department Head

$59,200

$59,200

(2)

1 year

Professor

$51,800

$51,800

(2)

1 year

Associate Professor

$42,600

$42,600

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

$34,300

$34,300

(2)

1 year

Instructor

$26,800

$26,800

(2)

1 year

Junior Staff (3)

Research Assistant

$16,500

$18,000

(2)

1 year

Research Associate

$17,000

$18,600

(2)

1 year

Sponsored Programs(3)

Research Scientist

$27,800

$27,800

(2)

1 year

Senior Scientist

$34,800

$34,800

(2)

1 year

Principal Scientist

$53,400

$53,400

(2)

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following compensation plans applicable to staff holding faculty positions in the Academic Division be and they are hereby approved, effective July 1, 1992: 1991-92 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on session basis unless otherwise noted. 1992-93 ProposedNormal Entrance Rate (1)Normal Increments Amt.IntervalGeneral Faculty (4) (4)The rank Lecturer is used for administrative faculty positions as well as instructional personnel whose assignment or status does not fit into the regular structure of faculty rank. Salary levels will vary in accordance with level of responsibility and experience. Professor$44,500$44,500(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions. 1 yearAssociate Professor$36,600$36,600(2)1 yearAssistant Professor$29,800$29,800(2)1 yearInstructor$21,000$21,000(2)1 yearPre-Clinical Faculty (3) (3)Amounts in this category are stated on an annual basis. (4)Department Head$59,200$59,200(2)1 yearProfessor$51,800$51,800(2)1 yearAssociate Professor$42,600$42,600(2)1 yearAssistant Professor$34,300$34,300(2)1 yearInstructor$26,800$26,800(2)1 yearJunior Staff (3)Research Assistant$16,500$18,000(2)1 yearResearch Associate$17,000$18,600(2)1 yearSponsored Programs(3)Research Scientist$27,800$27,800(2)1 yearSenior Scientist$34,800$34,800(2)1 yearPrincipal Scientist$53,400$53,400(2)1 year (5) Authority is hereby delegated to the President to make annual one time special payments to selected faculty in recognition of extraordinary achievement.

Amounts are stated on session basis unless otherwise noted.

The rank Lecturer is used for administrative faculty positions as well as instructional personnel whose assignment or status does not fit into the regular structure of faculty rank. Salary levels will vary in accordance with level of responsibility and experience.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

Amounts in this category are stated on an annual basis.

(5) Authority is hereby delegated to the President to make annual one time special payments to selected faculty in recognition of extraordinary achievement.

APPROVAL OF CLINICAL AND PATHOLOGY FACULTY SALARY CEILINGS FOR THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Current Scale 1991-92

Proposed Scale 1992-93

State Maximum

University Ceiling

State Maximum

University Ceiling

Rank

Professor and Department Head

$84,900

$205,900

$84,900

$205,900

Professor and Division Head

$80,500

$195,300

$80,500

$195,300

Professor

$77,400

$187,700

$77,400

$187,700

Associate Professor and Division Head

$70,000

$169,700

$70,000

$169,700

Associate Professor

$67,300

$163,100

$67,300

$163,100

Assistant Professor

$59,500

$144,400

$59,500

$144,400

Instructor

$46,700

$113,200

$46,700

$113,200

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that subject to the approval of the Governor, the full-time Clinical and Pathology Faculty Salary Ceilings shall be as follows, effective July 1, 1992: Current Scale 1991-92Proposed Scale 1992-93State MaximumUniversity CeilingState MaximumUniversity CeilingRankProfessor and Department Head$84,900$205,900$84,900$205,900Professor and Division Head$80,500$195,300$80,500$195,300Professor$77,400$187,700$77,400$187,700Associate Professor and Division Head$70,000$169,700$70,000$169,700Associate Professor$67,300$163,100$67,300$163,100Assistant Professor$59,500$144,400$59,500$144,400Instructor$46,700$113,200$46,700$113,200

APPROVAL OF FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------

1991-92 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis.

1992-93 Proposed

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Normal Increments Amt.

Interval

Rank

Professor

$33,000

$33,000

(2) (2)0-15%; amount in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

$28,500

$28,500

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

$24,500

$24,500

(2)

1 year

Instructor

$21,000

$21,000

(2)

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following compensation plan applicable to the teaching and research staff of Clinch Valley College be and it is hereby approved, effective July 1, 1992: 1991-92 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis. 1992-93 ProposedNormal Entrance Rate (1)Normal Increments Amt.IntervalRankProfessor$33,000$33,000(2) (2)0-15%; amount in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions. 1 yearAssociate Professor$28,500$28,500(2)1 yearAssistant Professor$24,500$24,500(2)1 yearInstructor$21,000$21,000(2)1 year

Amounts are stated on a session basis.

0-15%; amount in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

AFFIRMATION OF AUTHORITY FOR THE SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER AND ASSISTANT VICE PRESIDENT FOR FINANCE TO EXECUTE A RESTATED LEASE WITH THE VIRGINIA COLLEGE BUILDING AUTHORITY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS on April 30, 1987, January 22, 1988, March 31, 1989, and March 22, 1991, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia adopted resolutions authorizing the lease of equipment through the Virginia College Building Authority's Equipment Trust Fund Program; andWHEREAS it is necessary to restate the resulting equipment leases to obtain the benefit of a refinancing of the Program;RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that nothing contained in the said resolutions shall be interpreted or construed to limit the authority conferred by the said resolutions upon the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Assistant Vice President for Finance to execute and deliver a restated equipment lease in lieu of all equipment leases heretofore delivered pursuant to the said resolutions, which said restated lease shall provide, without limitation, for increased lease payments.

AMENDMENT OF PRIOR RESOLUTION PERTAINING TO CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE STUDENT HOUSING PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia adopted a resolution on May 24, 1991 (the "1991 Resolution") requesting the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth of Virginia to sell and issue bonds for a student residence facility (Capital Outlay Project Number 15161) for Clinch Valley College (the "Project") pursuant to the Commonwealth of Virginia Higher Educational Institutions Bond Act of 1991 (the "1991 Act"); andWHEREAS the 1991 Act has been or will be repealed by the Commonwealth of Virginia Higher Educational Institutions Bond Act of 1992 (the "1992 Act"), which includes the Project as a revenue-producing capital project for which bonds are authorized to be issued; andWHEREAS the 1992 Act similarly may be repealed but the Project continued as an authorized project for bond financing through subsequent legislation; andRESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the definition of "Act" in the 1991 Resolution be and it is hereby amended to include the 1992 Act and any other Act that includes the Project as a revenue-producing capital project for which bonds may be issued; andFURTHER RESOLVED that except as amended hereby, the 1991 Resolution be and it is hereby ratified and confirmed; andFURTHER RESOLVED that this resolution shall take effect immediately.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported on gifts, grants and contracts. The report was accepted by the Board.

RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION TO MR. ADAM S. ARTHUR
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Adam S. Arthur has been recognized by his peers as a leader among them; andWHEREAS Mr. Arthur was elected by the Board in March, 1991 to serve as the Student Member; andWHEREAS Mr. Arthur has served with great distinction since May, 1991, not only as a true representative of the students of the University but as a member of the Board in the best sense of the phrase; andWHEREAS Mr. Arthur has consistently brought intelligent and reasoned insights to the deliberations of the Board; andWHEREAS Mr. Arthur's term of office as Student Member expires after this meeting of the Board;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board thanks Mr. Arthur for his distinguished service to the University and wishes him well as he takes his degree in May.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR FURTHER DEVELOPMENT OF THE GILMER FIELD RECREATION FACILITY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the schematic design for the construction of the Gilmer Field Recreation Center be and it is hereby approved for further development;RESOLVED FURTHER that the project design shall be presented for further review at the preliminary design level of development.

APPROVAL OF MARKET ADJUSTMENTS FOR HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS
------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS legislation enacted during the 1990 General Assembly session authorized the Board of Visitors to establish competitive compensation programs for Health Care Professionals employed in the University Medical Center;WHEREAS in accordance with such legislation, the University Department of Human Resources recently conducted its semi-annual compensation survey of comparable hospitals in the Northeast, Southeast, and Midwest regions of the United States;WHEREAS the survey results indicated that compensation for Health Care Professionals employed by the University is below the compensation provided for similar positions at the hospitals surveyed;RESOLVED that the Market Adjustments for Health Care Professionals, as stipulated on the document attached hereto \[Attachment A\], be and they are hereby approved;FURTHER RESOLVED that this resolution reflecting endorsement by The Rector and Visitors be transmitted to the Secretary of Education of the Commonwealth of Virginia for concurrence.

LEWIS M. WALKER, JR., MEMORIAL RESOLUTION
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Mr. Lewis M. Walker, Jr. served with great distinction as a member of the Board of Visitors from 1962 to 1970; andWHEREAS, Mr. Walker was Chairman of the Mary Washington Committee of the Board when Mary Washington College was part of the University of Virginia; andWHEREAS, Mr. Walker took such an interest in Mary Washington College that when his term on the Board of Visitors expired and Mary Washington became an independent institution, he was appointed to the Mary Washington Board of Visitors and became its Rector; andWHEREAS, Mr. Walker, a native of Danville but virtually a life-long resident of Petersburg, took a B.A. from the College in 1935 and an M.S. in 1936; andWHEREAS, Mr. Walker was a devoted and supportive alumnus of the University for the rest of his life; andWHEREAS, Mr. Walker died on February 7, 1992;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors honors the memory of Lewis M. Walker, Jr., and recognizes his contributions to the life of the University.

REVISED POLICY ON THE ASSIGNMENT OF THE PAVILIONS ON THE LAWN AND MONTEBELLO
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors, in its assignment of Pavilions on the Lawn and Montebello, shall be governed by the following policy, effective March 28, 1992, and which shall supersede all previous policies:a. Qualifications for the assignment of residences, other than apartments in Pavilion VIII, under these regulations shall include:1. Assignees shall hold the rank of full professor2. The following are not eligible for assignment to residences:a. Part-time professorsb. Professors who have entered into retirement contracts with the University.b. Subject to a, priority shall be accorded to the two academic Vice Presidents, the Vice President for Student Affairs, the Deans in order of the founding of the several schools, and then to the faculty subject to conditions detailed below.Specifically the order shall be as follows:1. The Vice President and Provost2. The Vice President for Health Sciences3. The Vice President for Student Affairs4. The Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences5. The Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences6. The Dean of the School of Medicine7. The Dean of the School of Law8. The Dean of the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences9. The Dean of Graduate Studies10. The Dean of the School of Education11. The Dean of the School of Commerce12. The Dean of the School of Architecture13. The Dean of the Graduate School of Business Administration14. The Dean of the School of Nursingc. Subject to a and b, full professors shall have priority, irrespective of their School, in accordance with two priorities:demonstrated excellence in teaching, with preference given during the term of service to the holder of the Cavaliers' Distinguished Teaching Chair; and seniority as full professors.d. Persons who occupy Pavilions by reason of an administrative appointment as Dean or Vice President may remain in the Pavilion for not more that one year following the conclusion of the term of the administrative appointment.e. Faculty members who occupy Pavilions in accordance with c, shall do so for a term of five years, renewable at the University's and the resident's option for an additional five years, but in no case to exceed a total of ten years.For those persons who occupied Pavilions on June 1, 1992, individual arrangements shall be negotiated by the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, reflecting the general intent of the revisions described here.f. A prospective occupant's willingness to assign space in a Pavilion for classes or seminars will be considered an additional qualification. Ability at interaction with students by the prospective occupant shall also be considered a criterion in the selection of an occupant.g. Occupants assigned to residences who resign from the faculty, shall vacate the premises within 30 days from the date of resignation. Retiring professors shall vacate the premises by June 30 of the year of retirement. The family of a professor who dies during the session may occupy the residence until the close of that session.h. Assignment of the apartments in Pavilion VIII shall be made by the Board on recommendation by the Provost.i. Special considerations for selection of an occupant of a Pavilion, or for the use of a Pavilion, which may not be covered entirely by the above stated policy, may be taken into account by the Board on the recommendation of the President.j. This policy may become effective for Montebello on recommendation of the President and agreement by the Board.

AUTHORIZATION TO LEASE UNIVERSITY'S REMAINDER INTEREST IN KENWOOD ESTATE TO THE THOMAS JEFFERSON MEMORIAL FOUNDATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: (Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., abstained from voting).WHEREAS under the will of Frances Nash Watson the University holds a remainder interest in Kenwood, an approximately 78.5-acre tract with a main house and guest quarters including a cottage known as Roosevelt Cottage, located on Route 53 in Albemarle County (the "Kenwood property");WHEREAS the will restricts the University's use of the Kenwood property for "educational" and related purposes, and permits the University to sell all but 25 acres (surrounding the main house and adjacent cottages) so long as the net sale proceeds are devoted to the maintenance of the estate;WHEREAS the University has no present or reasonably foreseeable need to use the Kenwood property for University purposes;WHEREAS the life tenant, Miss Ellen Nash, wishes to make an inter vivos surrender of her life estate interest in the Kenwood property to the University, except for Roosevelt Cottage and its immediate grounds to which Miss Nash reserves her life interest;WHEREAS the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation (the "Foundation") desires to lease the Kenwood property, exclusive of Roosevelt Cottage and its immediate grounds, from the University under an agreement that contains the following central features: The lease term would be a period of 20 years, subject to rolling renewals at 5-year intervals upon mutual consent of the parties for an additional term of 20 years, for annual rental payment of one dollar; The Foundation would be responsible for all taxes, maintenance and expenses associated with the Kenwood property, including substantial structural improvements to the main house and maintenance and utilities on the Roosevelt Cottage during and after Miss Nash's life tenancy; The University would retain the right to sell all but 25 acres of the Kenwood property in accordance with the will of Frances Nash Watson, with the understanding that the Foundation would be offered the right of first refusal on any such sale for the parcel's market value; and The Foundation would agree to use the Kenwood property for educational and related purposes consistent with the restrictions stipulated in the will;RESOLVED that the transactions described above be and hereby are authorized by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia; andFURTHER RESOLVED that the University Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be and hereby is authorized to execute such documents as are necessary to confirm the University's acceptance of the surrender of the life estate and its lease of the Kenwood property to the Foundation, under terms and conditions consistent with this resolution and by means of instruments and agreements deemed legally sufficient by the University General Counsel.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 1:00 p.m.

AGG:jb

(ATTACHMENT A)
--------------

CLASS CLASS TITLE

No.

1/1/92 Deviations (in percentages)

Deviations projected to 4/1/92

Proposed range

Current range

Proposed range

CODE

FTE's

Min.

Max.

Avg. Sal

Min.

Max.

Avg. Sal

increase

minimum

maximum

minimum

maximum

95001 HCP-Clinical Perfusionist

3

n/a

24.4

21.5

\-1.4

23.0

19.5

4.0

0

80000

0

83200

95002 HCP-Clinical Perfusionist Chief

0

n/a

15.4

10.8

\-1.4

14.0

8.8

4.0

0

85000

0

88400

95003 HCP-Clin Perfusion Assistant

3

4.0

21711

33151

22579

34477

95007 HCP-Dental Hygienist

2

3.8

4.9

6.0

2.4

3.5

4.0

4.0

22243

33964

23133

35322

95011 HCP-Occupational Ther Asst

1

\-11.5

\-0.4

\-20.0

\-12.9

\-1.8

\-22.0

4.0

17352

26494

18046

27554

95012 HCP-Occupational Therapist

18.5

\-7.5

\-1.4

\-4.7

\-8.9

\-2.8

\-6.7

4.0

27231

41578

28320

43241

95013 HCP-Occupational Therapist Sr

8

\-8.2

\-4.2

\-1.8

\-9.6

\-5.6

\-3.8

4.0

29769

45452

30959

47270

95014 HCP-Occupational Therapy Supv

4

\-8.9

\-6.2

\-5.0

\-10.3

\-7.6

\-7.0

4.0

32543

49688

33844

51676

95016 HCP-Occupational Therapy Dir

0

4.0

38145

58242

39671

60572

95017 HCP-Echocardiography Spec, Staff

1

\-7.3

\-3.2

n/a

\-8.7

\-4.6

n/a

4.0

22136

33801

23022

35153

95018 HCP-Echocardiography Spec, Sr

2

4.0

24201

36950

25169

38428

95019 HCP-Echocardiography Spec, Chief

1

4.0

26456

40394

27514

42009

95021 HCP-Physical Therapist Asst

1

\-13.1

\-7.3

4.6

\-14.5

\-8.7

2.6

6.0

17352

26494

18393

28084

95022 HCP-Physical Therapist

22

\-11.9

\-7.8

\-10.7

\-13.3

\-9.2

\-12.7

6.0

27498

41985

29148

44504

95023 HCP-Physical Therapist Sr

11

\-12.4

\-8.6

\-7.5

\-13.8

\-10.0

\-9.5

6.0

30059

45899

31863

48653

95024 HCP-Physical Therapy Supv

5

\-10.7

\-9.0

\-7.7

\-12.1

\-10.4

\-9.7

6.0

32862

50174

34834

53185

95025 HCP-Physical Therapy Asst Dir

0

6.0

34894

53277

36987

56474

95026 HCP-Physical Therapy Director

0

6.0

38145

58242

40434

61737

95032 HCP-Recreational Therapist

6

\-12.8

\-10.5

\-17.3

\-14.2

\-11.9

\-19.3

4.0

18524

28284

19265

29415

95033 HCP-Recreational Therapist Sr

3

4.0

22136

33801

23022

35153

95034 HCP-Recreation Therapist Supv

2

4.0

24201

36950

25169

38428

95041 HCP-Respiratory Therapy Tech

9

\-16.8

\-11.0

\-9.0

\-18.2

\-12.4

\-11.0

6.0

17271

26370

18307

27952

95042 HCP-Respiratory Therapist

19

\-11.0

\-6.2

\-18.9

\-12.4

\-7.6

\-20.9

6.0

22030

33639

23352

35657

95043 HCP-Respiratory Therapist Sr

24

\-8.0

\-4.2

3.6

\-9.4

\-5.6

1.6

6.0

24084

36773

25530

38979

CLASS CLASS TITLE

No.

1/1/92 Deviations (in percentages)

Deviations projected to 4/1/92

Proposed range

Current range

Proposed range

CODE

FTE's

Min.

Max.

Avg. Sal

Min.

Max.

Avg. Sal

increase

minimum

maximum

minimum

maximum

95044 HCP-Respiratory Therapy Supv.

11

\-10.2

\-8.3

\-8.3

\-11.6

\-9.7

\-10.3

6.0

26328

40199

27908

42611

95045 HCP-Respiratory Therapy Asst Dir

1

6.0

28781

43945

30508

46582

95048 HCP-Ophthalmic Tech Trainee

1

2.0

18524

28284

18895

28850

95165 HCP-Ophthalmic Asst (certified)

0

not available

2.0

18524

28284

18894

28850

95166 HCP-Ophthalmic Tech (certified)

0

2.0

20251

30918

20656

31536

95049 HCP-Ophthalmic Technologist

0

2.0

22136

33801

22579

34477

95054 HCP-Electrocard Stress Test Tech

2

not available

2.0

16945

25872

17284

26390

95079 HCP-Electrocard Stress Test Tch Sr

1

2.0

22136

33801

22579

34477

95055 HCP-Audiologist

3.5

\-12.5

\-9.4

\-10.1

\-13.9

\-10.8

\-12.1

4.0

24201

36950

25169

38428

95056 HCP-Audiologist Supervisor

1

4.0

26456

40394

27514

42009

95061 HCP-Clinical Social Worker

6

4.0

19861

30324

20656

31537

95062 HCP-Clinical Social Worker Sr

23

\-7.8

\-6.7

\-12.4

\-9.2

\-8.1

\-14.4

4.0

23735

36240

24685

37689

95063 HCP-Clinical Social Work Supv

8

\-14.4

\-16.1

\-14.0

\-15.8

\-17.5

\-16.0

4.0

25947

39617

26985

41201

95065 HCP-Laboratory Specialist

13.8

2.0

20251

30918

20656

31537

95066 HCP-Laboratory Specialist Sr

9

2.0

22136

33801

22579

34477

95067 HCP-Laboratory Specialist Adv

3

not available

2.0

26456

40394

26985

41201

95068 HCP-Laboratory Specialist Mgr

0

2.0

31616

48273

32248

49238

95069 HCP-Lithotripter Technologist

2

2.0

24201

36950

24685

37689

95071 HCP-Med Tech

140

\-10.3

\-5.0

\-10.8

\-11.7

\-6.4

\-12.8

2.0

21924

33476

22362

34146

HCP-Med Tech - Certified

0

2.0

23239

35485

95072 HCP-Med Tech Sr

57.5

\-2.4

2.1

\-1.8

\-3.8

0.7

\-3.8

2.0

26201

40005

26725

40805

95073 HCP-Med Tech Supv

38

\-4.2

\-1.6

\-6.8

\-5.6

\-3.0

\-8.8

2.0

28642

43733

29215

44607

95074 HCP-Med Tech Mgr

6

2.0

31312

47808

31938

48765

95075 HCP-Med Tech Lab Admn

1

2.0

37419

57133

38167

58276

CLASS CLASS TITLE

No.

1/1/92 Deviations (in percentages)

Deviations projected to 4/1/92

Proposed range

Current range

Proposed range

CODE

FTE's

Min.

Max.

Avg.

Sal

Min.

Max.

Avg.

Sal

increase

minimum

maximum

minimum

maximum

95076 HCP-Prosthetic/Orthotic Tech

0

4.0

18524

28284

19265

29415

95077 HCP-Prosthetic/Orthotic Assistant

10

\-9.9

\-6.3

\-11.7

\-11.3

\-7.7

\-13.7

4.0

21079

32185

21922

33472

95078 HCP-Prosthetic/Orthotic Certified

2

\-17.9

\-12.7

\-32.7

\-19.3

\-14.1

\-34.7

4.0

27538

42047

28640

43729

95081 HCP-Pharmacist

44

\-6.7

\-3.0

\-8.0

\-8.1

\-4.4

\-10.0

2.0

33897

51755

34575

52790

95082 HCP-Pharmacist Senior

0

\-4.1

\-2.3

n/a

\-5.5

\-3.7

n/a

2.0

37056

56578

37797

57710

95094 HCP-Clinical Pharmacy Specialist

0

2.0

40509

61850

41319

63087

95083 HCP-Pharmacist Supv

22

\-2.0

\-0.2

\-4.7

\-3.4

\-1.6

\-6.7

2.0

40509

61850

41319

63087

95084 HCP-Pharmacy Assistant Director

4

2.0

44284

67614

45170

68966

95086 HCP-Autopsy Pathologist's Assist

1

6.0

28920

44157

30656

46807

95087 HCP-Physician's Assistant

3

\-7.2

\-6.9

\-22.9

\-8.6

\-8.3

\-24.9

6.0

28920

44157

30656

46807

95088 HCP-Operating Room Tech

2

\-5.0

\-1.3

\-1.6

\-6.4

\-2.7

\-3.6

2.0

15501

23667

15811

24141

95089 HCP-Orthoptist

0

0.0

18524

28284

18524

28284

95091 HCP-Psychologist

3

\-20.4

\-16.0

\-31.1

\-21.8

\-17.4

\-33.1

0.0

26456

40394

26456

40394

95102 HCP-Emer Med Tech Spec

5

11.0

23.0

23.2

9.6

21.6

21.2

0.0

18168

27740

18168

27740

95103 HCP-Emer Med Tech Sr

6

6.0

17.5

18.5

4.6

16.1

16.5

0.0

19861

30324

19861

30324

95104 HCP-Cytotechnologist

2

\-8.6

\-1.6

\-5.1

\-10.0

\-3.0

\-7.1

4.0

24555

37493

25537

38993

95105 HCP-Cytotechnologist Senior

1

4.0

27747

42367

28857

44062

95106 HCP-Cytotechnologist Supervisor

1

4.0

30327

46307

31540

48159

95107 HCP-EEG Tech

0

1.4

7.8

\-9.4

0.0

6.4

\-11.4

2.0

16945

25872

17284

26390

95108 HCP-EEG Tech Supv

0

2.0

20251

30918

20656

31537

95109 HCP-Bone Marrow Trans Tech

2

not available

2.0

22136

33801

22579

34477

95118 HCP-Bone Marrow Trans Tech Sr

1

2.0

26456

40394

26985

41201

CLASS CLASS TITLE

No.

1/1/92 Deviations (in percentages)

Deviations projected to 4/1/92

Proposed range

Current range

Proposed range

CODE

FTE's

Min.

Max.

Avg.

Sal

Min.

Max.

Avg.

Sal

increase

minimum

maximum

minimum

maximum

95111 HCP-EKG Tech

0

\-7.6

\-2.6

n/a

\-9.0

\-4.0

\-2.0

2.0

14179

21650

14463

22083

95112 HCP-EKG Supv

0

2.0

16945

25872

17284

26390

95113 HCP-Epidemiology Tech Sr

1

2.0

22136

33801

22579

34477

95114 HCP-Epidemiology Tech Adv

1

not available

2.0

26456

40394

26985

41201

95115 HCP-Cardiac Cath Tech

2

\-14.0

\-10.0

\-3.8

\-15.4

\-11.4

\-5.8

2.0

20251

30918

20656

31537

95116 HCP-Cardiac Cath Tech Sr

0

2.0

22136

33801

22579

34477

95117 HCP-Pain Mgmt Med Tech

1

not available

2.0

20251

30918

20656

31537

95119 HCP-Cast Tech

2

not available

2.0

20251

30918

20656

31537

95121 HCP-Organ Transplant Coordinator

1

2.0

22136

33801

22579

34477

95122 HCP-Organ Transplant Coord Sr

1

not available

2.0

26456

40394

26985

41202

95123 HCP-CV Monitor Tech

2

11.4

15.5

17.2

10.0

14.1

15.2

0.0

20251

30918

20251

30918

95124 HCP-CV Monitor Tech Sr

2

0.0

22136

33801

22136

33801

95125 HCP-CV Monitor Tech Supv

0

0.0

26456

40394

26456

40394

95127 HCP-Pulmonary Lab Tech

6

\-5.9

\-0.4

\-14.4

\-7.3

\-1.8

\-16.4

4.0

20251

30918

21061

32155

95128 HCP-Pulmonary Lab Tech Sr

1

4.0

22136

33801

23022

35153

95129 HCP-Pulmonary Lab Tech Supv

0

4.0

26456

40394

27514

42009

95132 HCP-Renal Dialysis Tech

12

0.0

19861

30324

19861

30324

95133 HCP-Renal Dialysis Tech Sr

3

not available

0.0

21711

33151

21711

33151

95134 HCP-Renal Dialysis Tech Supv

1

0.0

25947

39617

25947

39617

95136 HCP-Venipuncture Tech

0

\-3.3

1.4

n/a

\-4.7

0.0

\-2.0

2.0

15501

23667

15811

24141

95138 HCP-Venipuncture Tech Supv

2.5

2.0

20251

30918

20656

31537

CLASS CLASS TITLE

No.

1/1/92 Deviations (in percentages)

Deviations projected to 4/1/92

Proposed range

Current range

Proposed range

CODE

FTE's

Min.

Max.

Avg.

Sal

Min.

Max.

Avg.

Sal

increase

minimum

maximum

minimum

maximum

95139 HCP-Venipuncture Manager

1

2.0

22136

33801

22579

34477

95172 HCP-Nutritionist Specialist

1

\-2.8

\-0.1

6.5

\-4.2

\-1.5

4.5

0.0

24201

36950

24201

36950

95173 HCP-Nutritionist Specialist Sr

10

6.3

9.0

1.5

4.9

7.6

\-0.5

0.0

28920

44157

28920

44157

95174 HCP-Nutrition Program Dir

1

0.0

31616

48273

31616

48273

95177 HCP-Speech Pathologist

8.5

\-9.3

\-8.5

\-14.0

\-10.7

\-9.9

\-16.0

4.0

24201

36950

25169

38428

95179 HCP-Speech Pathologist Supv

1

4.0

26456

40394

27514

42009

95051 HCP-Anesthetist

3

\-9.7

\-7.6

\-1.6

\-11.1

\-9.0

\-3.6

6.0

44384

67770

47047

71836

95052 HCP-Anesthetist Asst Head

0

6.0

48521

74083

51432

78528

95053 HCP-Anesthetist Head

1

\-7.9

\-8.8

\-10.3

\-9.3

\-10.2

\-12.3

6.0

48521

74083

51432

78528

95095 HCP-RN Clinician 1

106

\-10.4

\-10.2

\-10.1

\-11.8

\-11.6

\-12.1

3.0

25067

38273

25818

39422

95096 HCP-RN Clinician 2

433

3.0

27403

41840

28225

43096

95097 HCP-RN Clinician 3

259.

\-5.3

\-4.3

\-2.0

\-6.7

\-5.7

\-4.0

3.0

29956

45739

30855

47111

95098 HCP-RN Clinician 4

26.3

5.0

34451

52600

36173

55230

95099 HCP-RN Clinician 5

0

5.0

37654

57492

39537

60367

95141 HCP-Registered Nurse (InPat)

15.5

\-10.4

\-10.2

\-10.1

\-11.8

\-11.6

\-12.1

4.0

25067

38273

26069

39804

95142 HCP-Reg Nurse Clin A (InPat)

42.5

4.0

27403

41840

28499

43514

95143 HCP-Reg Nurse Clin B (InPat)

21

\-5.3

\-4.3

\-2.0

\-6.7

\-5.7

\-4.0

4.0

29956

45739

31155

47568

95144 HCP-Reg Nurse Coord (InPat)

48

\-12.9

\-13.9

\-12.7

\-14.3

\-15.3

\-14.7

6.0

32748

50001

34713

53002

95145 HCP-Reg Nurse Mgr (InPat)

0

6.0

39136

59753

41485

63338

95146 HCP-Cert Nurse Pract (InPat)

3

\-5.4

\-1.2

\-7.2

\-6.8

\-2.6

\-9.2

4.0

31779

48521

33050

50462

95157 HCP-Cert Nurse Pract (OP)

13.5

\-9.2

\-5.4

\-9.4

\-10.6

\-6.8

\-11.4

4.0

30529

46613

31750

48477

95158 HCP-Cert Nurse Practitioner Sr

1

4.0

33374

50956

34709

52994

95156 HCP-Registered Clin Nurse Spec

1

4.0

37056

56578

38538

58842

CLASS CLASS TITLE

No.

1/1/92 Deviations (in percentages)

Deviations projected to 4/1/92

Proposed range

Current range

Proposed range

CODE

FTE's

Min.

Max.

Avg.

Sal

Min.

Max.

Avg.

Sal

increase

minimum

maximum

minimum

maximum

95151 HCP-Registered Nurse (OutPat)

23.3

\-14.3

\-12.6

\-17.0

\-15.7

\-14.0

\-19.0

4.0

23221

35455

24150

36873

95152 HCP-Reg Nurse Clin A (OutPat)

40.5

4.0

25385

38759

26400

40309

95153 HCP-Reg Nurse Clin B (OutPat)

50

\-6.8

\-10.7

\-13.8

\-8.2

\-12.1

\-15.8

4.0

27750

42371

28860

44066

95154 HCP-Reg Nurse Coord (OutPat)

10

\-13.4

\-14.6

\-13.0

\-14.8

\-16.0

\-15.0

4.0

30337

46319

31550

48172

95155 HCP-Reg Nurse Mgr (OutPat)

0

4.0

36254

55353

37704

57567

95169 HCP-Registered Nurse, Transplant

3

4.0

29200

44588

30368

46372

95159 HCP-Registered Nurse (staff ed)

0

\-9.7

\-7.9

n/a

\-11.1

\-9.3

\-2.0

4.0

24415

37277

25391

38768

95161 HCP-Reg Nurse Clin A (staff ed)

4

4.0

26690

40752

27758

42382

95162 HCP-Reg Nurse Clin B (staff ed)

3.5

\-1.9

\-6.0

\-4.0

\-3.3

\-7.4

\-6.0

4.0

29177

44549

30344

46330

95163 HCP-Registered Nurse Coord (staff

8

\-8.8

\-10.0

\-9.1

\-10.2

\-11.4

\-11.1

4.0

31896

48700

33172

50648

95147 HCP-Practical Nurse

1

\-16.6

\-8.6

\-17.2

\-18.0

\-10.0

\-19.2

4.0

15203

23212

15811

24141

95148 HCP-Practical Nurse Sr

95

\-12.4

\-5.0

\-8.7

\-13.8

\-6.4

\-10.7

4.0

16619

25375

17284

26390

95164 HCP-Patient Care Specialist

15

4.0

18168

27740

18895

28850

95149 HCP-UVA POOL RN (hourly rate)

0

4.0

17

21

18

22

95181 HCP-Radiology Manager

4

\-0.4

\-2.4

\-2.6

\-1.8

\-3.8

\-4.6

4.0

35226

53784

36635

55936

95183 HCP-Radiology Physics Spec Sr

2

\-15.4

\-12.0

\-12.2

\-16.8

\-13.4

\-14.2

4.0

24666

37661

25653

39167

95221 HCP-Nonregistered Rad Tech

1

4.0

19861

30324

20656

31537

95185 HCP-Rad Tech Staff-CT

0

\-6.2

\-0.9

\-3.9

\-7.6

\-2.3

\-5.9

4.0

22562

34451

23465

35829

95186 HCP-Rad Tech Sr-CT

11

\-9.5

\-3.4

\-2.7

\-10.9

\-4.8

\-4.7

4.0

24666

37661

25653

39167

95187 HCP-Rad Tech Asst Chief-CT

3

0.3

4.0

\-8.8

\-1.1

2.6

\-10.8

4.0

28364

43308

29499

45041

95188 HCP-Rad Tech Chief-CT

2

4.8

4.8

\-6.9

3.4

3.4

\-8.9

4.0

31008

47344

32248

49238

95195 HCP-Rad Tech Staff-Diag

16

\-0.8

5.5

\-12.8

\-2.2

4.1

\-14.8

4.0

22030

33639

22911

34984

95196 HCP-Rad Tech Sr-Diag

26.5

\-1.2

4.4

6.4

\-2.6

3.0

4.4

4.0

24084

36773

25048

38243

95197 HCP-Rad Tech Asst Chief-Diag

6

0.3

4.0

\-8.8

\-1.1

2.6

\-10.8

4.0

28364

43308

29499

45041

CLASS CLASS TITLE

No.

1/1/92 Deviations (in percentages)

Deviations projected to 4/1/92

Proposed range

Current range

Proposed range

CODE

FTE's

Min.

Max.

Avg.

Sal

Min.

Max.

Avg.

Sal

increase

minimum

maximum

minimum

maximum

95198 HCP-Rad Tech Chief-Diag

2

4.8

4.8

\-6.9

3.4

3.4

\-8.9

4.0

31008

47344

32248

49238

95205 HCP-Rad Tech Staff-MRI

3

\-7.9

\-4.4

\-21.6

\-9.3

\-5.8

\-23.6

4.0

22562

34451

23465

35829

95206 HCP-Rad Tech Sr-MRI

4

\-4.2

0.0

0.4

\-5.6

\-1.4

\-1.6

4.0

24666

37661

25653

39167

95207 HCP-Rad Tech Asst Chief-MRI

2

0.3

4.0

\-8.8

\-1.1

2.6

\-10.8

4.0

28364

43308

29499

45041

95215 HCP-Rad Tech Staff-NM

6

\-6.0

\-0.5

\-13.3

\-7.4

\-1.9

\-15.3

4.0

24084

36773

25048

38243

95216 HCP-Rad Tech Sr-NM

3

\-5.0

4.7

4.5

\-6.4

3.3

2.5

4.0

26328

40199

27381

41807

95217 HCP-Rad Tech Asst Chief-NM

3

0.3

4.0

\-8.8

\-1.1

2.6

\-10.8

4.0

28364

43308

29499

45041

95218 HCP-Rad Tech Chief-NM

2

4.8

4.8

\-6.9

3.4

3.4

\-8.9

4.0

31008

47344

32248

49238

95219 HCP-Rad Tech Sup-Nuclear

0

4.0

28364

43308

29499

45041

95225 HCP-Rad Tech Staff-RT

6

\-8.0

\-2.7

\-14.0

\-9.4

\-4.1

\-18.0

4.0

25518

38961

26539

40519

95226 HCP-Rad Tech Sr-RT

4

\-11.2

\-6.6

\-18.2

\-12.6

\-8.0

\-20.2

4.0

27895

42592

29011

44296

95227 HCP-Rad Tech Asst Chief-RT

2

0.3

4.0

\-8.8

\-1.1

2.6

\-10.8

4.0

28076

42867

29199

44581

95228 HCP-Rad Tech Chief-RT

2

4.8

4.8

\-6.9

3.4

3.4

\-8.9

4.0

30692

46861

31919

48735

95231 HCP-Rad Dosimetrist-RT

2

\-3.6

\-1.1

\-5.0

\-5.0

\-2.5

\-7.0

4.0

27895

42592

29011

44296

95235 HCP-Rad Tech Staff-SP

4

\-1.9

4.1

\-11.5

\-3.3

2.7

\-13.5

4.0

24084

36773

25048

38243

95236 HCP-Rad Tech Sr-SP

8

\-3.7

2.2

\-3.8

\-5.1

0.8

\-5.8

4.0

26328

40199

27381

41807

95237 HCP-Rad Tech Asst Chief-SP

4

0.3

4.0

\-8.8

\-1.1

2.6

\-10.8

4.0

28364

43308

29499

45041

95238 HCP-Rad Tech Chief-SP

1

4.8

4.8

\-6.9

3.4

3.4

\-8.9

4.0

31008

47344

32248

49238

95241 HCP-Rad Tech Staff-US

4

\-7.3

\-1.8

\-9.0

\-8.7

\-3.2

\-11.0

4.0

24084

36773

25048

38243

95242 HCP-Rad Tech Sr-US

1

\-8.5

0.9

7.1

\-9.9

\-0.5

5.1

4.0

26328

40199

27381

41807

95243 HCP-Rad Tech Asst Chief-US

3

0.3

4.0

\-8.8

\-1.1

2.6

\-10.8

4.0

28364

43308

29499

45041

95244 HCP-Radiology School Dir (RT)

1

4.0

30052

45886

31254

47721

95246 HCP-Rad Educ Asst Dir

2

4.0

28364

43308

29499

45041

95247 HCP-Radiology School Director

3

4.0

28364

43308

29499

45041

CLASS CLASS TITLE

No.

1/1/92 Deviations (in percentages)

Deviations projected to 4/1/92

Proposed range

Current range

Proposed range

CODE

FTE's

Min.

Max.

Avg.

Sal

Min.

Max.

Avg.

Sal

increase

minimum

maximum

minimum

maximum

95249 HCP-Radiology Education Dir

1

\-13.5

\-14.9

\-1.2

\-14.9

\-16.3

\-3.2

4.0

31008

47344

32248

49238

95027 HCP-Administr Resident - 1st Year

4.0

0

21622

0

22487

95046 HCP-Administr Resident - 2nd Year

4.0

0

22703

0

23611

95028 HCP-Resident - First Year

\-8.7

\-10.7

8.0

0

23873

0

25783

95029 HCP-Resident - Second Year

\-13.9

\-15.9

8.0

0

25202

0

27218

95031 HCP-Resident - Third Year

\-13.7

\-15.7

8.0

0

26536

0

28659

95035 HCP-Resident - Fourth Year

\-14.5

\-16.5

8.0

0

27705

0

29921

95036 HCP-Resident - Fifth Year

\-13.3

\-15.3

8.0

0

29195

0

31531

95037 HCP-Resident - Sixth Year

\-12.9

\-14.9

8.0

0

30568

0

33013

95038 HCP-Resident - Seventh Year

\-10.2

\-12.2

8.0

0

32472

0

35070

95039 HCP-Resident - Eighth Year

\-10.1

\-12.1

8.0

0

34348

0

37096

95008 HCP-Dentistry Resident

4.0

23645

26077

24591

27120

95047 HCP-Eye Clinic Extern

4.0

3972

3972

4131

4131

95057 HCP-NETS Resident

4.0

0

10816

0

11249

95058 HCP-Patient & Fam Couns Resident

4.0

16000

18000

16640

18720

95059 HCP-Counseling Center Intern

4.0

12000

13200

12480

13728

95092 HCP-Clinical Psychology Resident

4.0

0

11944

0

12422

95093 HCP-Pharmacy Resident

4.0

0

23000

0

23920

Health Care Provider Increase Proposal - April 1, 1992

Ranges will be adjusted by the increase amount. Actual employee salary increases may differ based upon salary compression and equity considerations.

CLASS CLASS TITLENo.1/1/92 Deviations (in percentages)Deviations projected to 4/1/92Proposed rangeCurrent rangeProposed rangeCODEFTE'sMin.Max.Avg. SalMin.Max.Avg. Salincreaseminimummaximumminimummaximum95001 HCP-Clinical Perfusionist3n/a24.421.5-1.423.019.54.008000008320095002 HCP-Clinical Perfusionist Chief0n/a15.410.8-1.414.08.84.008500008840095003 HCP-Clin Perfusion Assistant34.02171133151225793447795007 HCP-Dental Hygienist23.84.96.02.43.54.04.02224333964231333532295011 HCP-Occupational Ther Asst1-11.5-0.4-20.0-12.9-1.8-22.04.01735226494180462755495012 HCP-Occupational Therapist18.5-7.5-1.4-4.7-8.9-2.8-6.74.02723141578283204324195013 HCP-Occupational Therapist Sr8-8.2-4.2-1.8-9.6-5.6-3.84.02976945452309594727095014 HCP-Occupational Therapy Supv4-8.9-6.2-5.0-10.3-7.6-7.04.03254349688338445167695016 HCP-Occupational Therapy Dir04.03814558242396716057295017 HCP-Echocardiography Spec, Staff1-7.3-3.2n/a-8.7-4.6n/a4.02213633801230223515395018 HCP-Echocardiography Spec, Sr24.02420136950251693842895019 HCP-Echocardiography Spec, Chief14.02645640394275144200995021 HCP-Physical Therapist Asst1-13.1-7.34.6-14.5-8.72.66.01735226494183932808495022 HCP-Physical Therapist22-11.9-7.8-10.7-13.3-9.2-12.76.02749841985291484450495023 HCP-Physical Therapist Sr11-12.4-8.6-7.5-13.8-10.0-9.56.03005945899318634865395024 HCP-Physical Therapy Supv5-10.7-9.0-7.7-12.1-10.4-9.76.03286250174348345318595025 HCP-Physical Therapy Asst Dir06.03489453277369875647495026 HCP-Physical Therapy Director06.03814558242404346173795032 HCP-Recreational Therapist6-12.8-10.5-17.3-14.2-11.9-19.34.01852428284192652941595033 HCP-Recreational Therapist Sr34.02213633801230223515395034 HCP-Recreation Therapist Supv24.02420136950251693842895041 HCP-Respiratory Therapy Tech9-16.8-11.0-9.0-18.2-12.4-11.06.01727126370183072795295042 HCP-Respiratory Therapist19-11.0-6.2-18.9-12.4-7.6-20.96.02203033639233523565795043 HCP-Respiratory Therapist Sr24-8.0-4.23.6-9.4-5.61.66.024084367732553038979

Health Care Provider Increase Proposal - April 1, 1992

Ranges will be adjusted by the increase amount. Actual employee salary increases may differ based upon salary compression and equity considerations.

CLASS CLASS TITLENo.1/1/92 Deviations (in percentages)Deviations projected to 4/1/92Proposed rangeCurrent rangeProposed rangeCODEFTE'sMin.Max.Avg. SalMin.Max.Avg. Salincreaseminimummaximumminimummaximum95044 HCP-Respiratory Therapy Supv.11-10.2-8.3-8.3-11.6-9.7-10.36.02632840199279084261195045 HCP-Respiratory Therapy Asst Dir16.02878143945305084658295048 HCP-Ophthalmic Tech Trainee12.01852428284188952885095165 HCP-Ophthalmic Asst (certified)0not available2.01852428284188942885095166 HCP-Ophthalmic Tech (certified)02.02025130918206563153695049 HCP-Ophthalmic Technologist02.02213633801225793447795054 HCP-Electrocard Stress Test Tech2not available2.01694525872172842639095079 HCP-Electrocard Stress Test Tch Sr12.02213633801225793447795055 HCP-Audiologist3.5-12.5-9.4-10.1-13.9-10.8-12.14.02420136950251693842895056 HCP-Audiologist Supervisor14.02645640394275144200995061 HCP-Clinical Social Worker64.01986130324206563153795062 HCP-Clinical Social Worker Sr23-7.8-6.7-12.4-9.2-8.1-14.44.02373536240246853768995063 HCP-Clinical Social Work Supv8-14.4-16.1-14.0-15.8-17.5-16.04.02594739617269854120195065 HCP-Laboratory Specialist13.82.02025130918206563153795066 HCP-Laboratory Specialist Sr92.02213633801225793447795067 HCP-Laboratory Specialist Adv3not available2.02645640394269854120195068 HCP-Laboratory Specialist Mgr02.03161648273322484923895069 HCP-Lithotripter Technologist22.02420136950246853768995071 HCP-Med Tech140-10.3-5.0-10.8-11.7-6.4-12.82.021924334762236234146HCP-Med Tech - Certified02.0232393548595072 HCP-Med Tech Sr57.5-2.42.1-1.8-3.80.7-3.82.02620140005267254080595073 HCP-Med Tech Supv38-4.2-1.6-6.8-5.6-3.0-8.82.02864243733292154460795074 HCP-Med Tech Mgr62.03131247808319384876595075 HCP-Med Tech Lab Admn12.037419571333816758276

Health Care Provider Increase Proposal - April 1, 1992

Ranges will be adjusted by the increase amount. Actual employee salary increases may differ based upon salary compression and equity considerations.

CLASS CLASS TITLENo.1/1/92 Deviations (in percentages)Deviations projected to 4/1/92Proposed rangeCurrent rangeProposed rangeCODEFTE'sMin.Max.Avg.SalMin.Max.Avg.Salincreaseminimummaximumminimummaximum95076 HCP-Prosthetic/Orthotic Tech04.01852428284192652941595077 HCP-Prosthetic/Orthotic Assistant10-9.9-6.3-11.7-11.3-7.7-13.74.02107932185219223347295078 HCP-Prosthetic/Orthotic Certified2-17.9-12.7-32.7-19.3-14.1-34.74.02753842047286404372995081 HCP-Pharmacist44-6.7-3.0-8.0-8.1-4.4-10.02.03389751755345755279095082 HCP-Pharmacist Senior0-4.1-2.3n/a-5.5-3.7n/a2.03705656578377975771095094 HCP-Clinical Pharmacy Specialist02.04050961850413196308795083 HCP-Pharmacist Supv22-2.0-0.2-4.7-3.4-1.6-6.72.04050961850413196308795084 HCP-Pharmacy Assistant Director42.04428467614451706896695086 HCP-Autopsy Pathologist's Assist16.02892044157306564680795087 HCP-Physician's Assistant3-7.2-6.9-22.9-8.6-8.3-24.96.02892044157306564680795088 HCP-Operating Room Tech2-5.0-1.3-1.6-6.4-2.7-3.62.01550123667158112414195089 HCP-Orthoptist00.01852428284185242828495091 HCP-Psychologist3-20.4-16.0-31.1-21.8-17.4-33.10.02645640394264564039495102 HCP-Emer Med Tech Spec511.023.023.29.621.621.20.01816827740181682774095103 HCP-Emer Med Tech Sr66.017.518.54.616.116.50.01986130324198613032495104 HCP-Cytotechnologist2-8.6-1.6-5.1-10.0-3.0-7.14.02455537493255373899395105 HCP-Cytotechnologist Senior14.02774742367288574406295106 HCP-Cytotechnologist Supervisor14.03032746307315404815995107 HCP-EEG Tech01.47.8-9.40.06.4-11.42.01694525872172842639095108 HCP-EEG Tech Supv02.02025130918206563153795109 HCP-Bone Marrow Trans Tech2not available2.02213633801225793447795118 HCP-Bone Marrow Trans Tech Sr12.026456403942698541201

Health Care Provider Increase Proposal - April 1, 1992

Ranges will be adjusted by the increase amount. Actual employee salary increases may differ based upon salary compression and equity considerations.

CLASS CLASS TITLENo.1/1/92 Deviations (in percentages)Deviations projected to 4/1/92Proposed rangeCurrent rangeProposed rangeCODEFTE'sMin.Max.Avg.SalMin.Max.Avg.Salincreaseminimummaximumminimummaximum95111 HCP-EKG Tech0-7.6-2.6n/a-9.0-4.0-2.02.01417921650144632208395112 HCP-EKG Supv02.01694525872172842639095113 HCP-Epidemiology Tech Sr12.02213633801225793447795114 HCP-Epidemiology Tech Adv1not available2.02645640394269854120195115 HCP-Cardiac Cath Tech2-14.0-10.0-3.8-15.4-11.4-5.82.02025130918206563153795116 HCP-Cardiac Cath Tech Sr02.02213633801225793447795117 HCP-Pain Mgmt Med Tech1not available2.02025130918206563153795119 HCP-Cast Tech2not available2.02025130918206563153795121 HCP-Organ Transplant Coordinator12.02213633801225793447795122 HCP-Organ Transplant Coord Sr1not available2.02645640394269854120295123 HCP-CV Monitor Tech211.415.517.210.014.115.20.02025130918202513091895124 HCP-CV Monitor Tech Sr20.02213633801221363380195125 HCP-CV Monitor Tech Supv00.02645640394264564039495127 HCP-Pulmonary Lab Tech6-5.9-0.4-14.4-7.3-1.8-16.44.02025130918210613215595128 HCP-Pulmonary Lab Tech Sr14.02213633801230223515395129 HCP-Pulmonary Lab Tech Supv04.02645640394275144200995132 HCP-Renal Dialysis Tech120.01986130324198613032495133 HCP-Renal Dialysis Tech Sr3not available0.02171133151217113315195134 HCP-Renal Dialysis Tech Supv10.02594739617259473961795136 HCP-Venipuncture Tech0-3.31.4n/a-4.70.0-2.02.01550123667158112414195138 HCP-Venipuncture Tech Supv2.52.020251309182065631537

Health Care Provider Increase Proposal - April 1, 1992

Ranges will be adjusted by the increase amount. Actual employee salary increases may differ based upon salary compression and equity considerations.

CLASS CLASS TITLENo.1/1/92 Deviations (in percentages)Deviations projected to 4/1/92Proposed rangeCurrent rangeProposed rangeCODEFTE'sMin.Max.Avg.SalMin.Max.Avg.Salincreaseminimummaximumminimummaximum95139 HCP-Venipuncture Manager12.02213633801225793447795172 HCP-Nutritionist Specialist1-2.8-0.16.5-4.2-1.54.50.02420136950242013695095173 HCP-Nutritionist Specialist Sr106.39.01.54.97.6-0.50.02892044157289204415795174 HCP-Nutrition Program Dir10.03161648273316164827395177 HCP-Speech Pathologist8.5-9.3-8.5-14.0-10.7-9.9-16.04.02420136950251693842895179 HCP-Speech Pathologist Supv14.02645640394275144200995051 HCP-Anesthetist3-9.7-7.6-1.6-11.1-9.0-3.66.04438467770470477183695052 HCP-Anesthetist Asst Head06.04852174083514327852895053 HCP-Anesthetist Head1-7.9-8.8-10.3-9.3-10.2-12.36.04852174083514327852895095 HCP-RN Clinician 1106-10.4-10.2-10.1-11.8-11.6-12.13.02506738273258183942295096 HCP-RN Clinician 24333.02740341840282254309695097 HCP-RN Clinician 3259.-5.3-4.3-2.0-6.7-5.7-4.03.02995645739308554711195098 HCP-RN Clinician 426.35.03445152600361735523095099 HCP-RN Clinician 505.03765457492395376036795141 HCP-Registered Nurse (InPat)15.5-10.4-10.2-10.1-11.8-11.6-12.14.02506738273260693980495142 HCP-Reg Nurse Clin A (InPat)42.54.02740341840284994351495143 HCP-Reg Nurse Clin B (InPat)21-5.3-4.3-2.0-6.7-5.7-4.04.02995645739311554756895144 HCP-Reg Nurse Coord (InPat)48-12.9-13.9-12.7-14.3-15.3-14.76.03274850001347135300295145 HCP-Reg Nurse Mgr (InPat)06.03913659753414856333895146 HCP-Cert Nurse Pract (InPat)3-5.4-1.2-7.2-6.8-2.6-9.24.03177948521330505046295157 HCP-Cert Nurse Pract (OP)13.5-9.2-5.4-9.4-10.6-6.8-11.44.03052946613317504847795158 HCP-Cert Nurse Practitioner Sr14.03337450956347095299495156 HCP-Registered Clin Nurse Spec14.037056565783853858842

Health Care Provider Increase Proposal - April 1, 1992

Ranges will be adjusted by the increase amount. Actual employee salary increases may differ based upon salary compression and equity considerations.

CLASS CLASS TITLENo.1/1/92 Deviations (in percentages)Deviations projected to 4/1/92Proposed rangeCurrent rangeProposed rangeCODEFTE'sMin.Max.Avg.SalMin.Max.Avg.Salincreaseminimummaximumminimummaximum95151 HCP-Registered Nurse (OutPat)23.3-14.3-12.6-17.0-15.7-14.0-19.04.02322135455241503687395152 HCP-Reg Nurse Clin A (OutPat)40.54.02538538759264004030995153 HCP-Reg Nurse Clin B (OutPat)50-6.8-10.7-13.8-8.2-12.1-15.84.02775042371288604406695154 HCP-Reg Nurse Coord (OutPat)10-13.4-14.6-13.0-14.8-16.0-15.04.03033746319315504817295155 HCP-Reg Nurse Mgr (OutPat)04.03625455353377045756795169 HCP-Registered Nurse, Transplant34.02920044588303684637295159 HCP-Registered Nurse (staff ed)0-9.7-7.9n/a-11.1-9.3-2.04.02441537277253913876895161 HCP-Reg Nurse Clin A (staff ed)44.02669040752277584238295162 HCP-Reg Nurse Clin B (staff ed)3.5-1.9-6.0-4.0-3.3-7.4-6.04.02917744549303444633095163 HCP-Registered Nurse Coord (staff8-8.8-10.0-9.1-10.2-11.4-11.14.03189648700331725064895147 HCP-Practical Nurse1-16.6-8.6-17.2-18.0-10.0-19.24.01520323212158112414195148 HCP-Practical Nurse Sr95-12.4-5.0-8.7-13.8-6.4-10.74.01661925375172842639095164 HCP-Patient Care Specialist154.01816827740188952885095149 HCP-UVA POOL RN (hourly rate)04.01721182295181 HCP-Radiology Manager4-0.4-2.4-2.6-1.8-3.8-4.64.03522653784366355593695183 HCP-Radiology Physics Spec Sr2-15.4-12.0-12.2-16.8-13.4-14.24.02466637661256533916795221 HCP-Nonregistered Rad Tech14.01986130324206563153795185 HCP-Rad Tech Staff-CT0-6.2-0.9-3.9-7.6-2.3-5.94.02256234451234653582995186 HCP-Rad Tech Sr-CT11-9.5-3.4-2.7-10.9-4.8-4.74.02466637661256533916795187 HCP-Rad Tech Asst Chief-CT30.34.0-8.8-1.12.6-10.84.02836443308294994504195188 HCP-Rad Tech Chief-CT24.84.8-6.93.43.4-8.94.03100847344322484923895195 HCP-Rad Tech Staff-Diag16-0.85.5-12.8-2.24.1-14.84.02203033639229113498495196 HCP-Rad Tech Sr-Diag26.5-1.24.46.4-2.63.04.44.02408436773250483824395197 HCP-Rad Tech Asst Chief-Diag60.34.0-8.8-1.12.6-10.84.028364433082949945041

Health Care Provider Increase Proposal - April 1, 1992

Ranges will be adjusted by the increase amount. Actual employee salary increases may differ based upon salary compression and equity considerations.

CLASS CLASS TITLENo.1/1/92 Deviations (in percentages)Deviations projected to 4/1/92Proposed rangeCurrent rangeProposed rangeCODEFTE'sMin.Max.Avg.SalMin.Max.Avg.Salincreaseminimummaximumminimummaximum95198 HCP-Rad Tech Chief-Diag24.84.8-6.93.43.4-8.94.03100847344322484923895205 HCP-Rad Tech Staff-MRI3-7.9-4.4-21.6-9.3-5.8-23.64.02256234451234653582995206 HCP-Rad Tech Sr-MRI4-4.20.00.4-5.6-1.4-1.64.02466637661256533916795207 HCP-Rad Tech Asst Chief-MRI20.34.0-8.8-1.12.6-10.84.02836443308294994504195215 HCP-Rad Tech Staff-NM6-6.0-0.5-13.3-7.4-1.9-15.34.02408436773250483824395216 HCP-Rad Tech Sr-NM3-5.04.74.5-6.43.32.54.02632840199273814180795217 HCP-Rad Tech Asst Chief-NM30.34.0-8.8-1.12.6-10.84.02836443308294994504195218 HCP-Rad Tech Chief-NM24.84.8-6.93.43.4-8.94.03100847344322484923895219 HCP-Rad Tech Sup-Nuclear04.02836443308294994504195225 HCP-Rad Tech Staff-RT6-8.0-2.7-14.0-9.4-4.1-18.04.02551838961265394051995226 HCP-Rad Tech Sr-RT4-11.2-6.6-18.2-12.6-8.0-20.24.02789542592290114429695227 HCP-Rad Tech Asst Chief-RT20.34.0-8.8-1.12.6-10.84.02807642867291994458195228 HCP-Rad Tech Chief-RT24.84.8-6.93.43.4-8.94.03069246861319194873595231 HCP-Rad Dosimetrist-RT2-3.6-1.1-5.0-5.0-2.5-7.04.02789542592290114429695235 HCP-Rad Tech Staff-SP4-1.94.1-11.5-3.32.7-13.54.02408436773250483824395236 HCP-Rad Tech Sr-SP8-3.72.2-3.8-5.10.8-5.84.02632840199273814180795237 HCP-Rad Tech Asst Chief-SP40.34.0-8.8-1.12.6-10.84.02836443308294994504195238 HCP-Rad Tech Chief-SP14.84.8-6.93.43.4-8.94.03100847344322484923895241 HCP-Rad Tech Staff-US4-7.3-1.8-9.0-8.7-3.2-11.04.02408436773250483824395242 HCP-Rad Tech Sr-US1-8.50.97.1-9.9-0.55.14.02632840199273814180795243 HCP-Rad Tech Asst Chief-US30.34.0-8.8-1.12.6-10.84.02836443308294994504195244 HCP-Radiology School Dir (RT)14.03005245886312544772195246 HCP-Rad Educ Asst Dir24.02836443308294994504195247 HCP-Radiology School Director34.028364433082949945041

Health Care Provider Increase Proposal - April 1, 1992

Ranges will be adjusted by the increase amount. Actual employee salary increases may differ based upon salary compression and equity considerations.

CLASS CLASS TITLENo.1/1/92 Deviations (in percentages)Deviations projected to 4/1/92Proposed rangeCurrent rangeProposed rangeCODEFTE'sMin.Max.Avg.SalMin.Max.Avg.Salincreaseminimummaximumminimummaximum95249 HCP-Radiology Education Dir1-13.5-14.9-1.2-14.9-16.3-3.24.03100847344322484923895027 HCP-Administr Resident - 1st Year4.002162202248795046 HCP-Administr Resident - 2nd Year4.002270302361195028 HCP-Resident - First Year-8.7-10.78.002387302578395029 HCP-Resident - Second Year-13.9-15.98.002520202721895031 HCP-Resident - Third Year-13.7-15.78.002653602865995035 HCP-Resident - Fourth Year-14.5-16.58.002770502992195036 HCP-Resident - Fifth Year-13.3-15.38.002919503153195037 HCP-Resident - Sixth Year-12.9-14.98.003056803301395038 HCP-Resident - Seventh Year-10.2-12.28.003247203507095039 HCP-Resident - Eighth Year-10.1-12.18.003434803709695008 HCP-Dentistry Resident4.02364526077245912712095047 HCP-Eye Clinic Extern4.0397239724131413195057 HCP-NETS Resident4.001081601124995058 HCP-Patient & Fam Couns Resident4.01600018000166401872095059 HCP-Counseling Center Intern4.01200013200124801372895092 HCP-Clinical Psychology Resident4.001194401242295093 HCP-Pharmacy Resident4.0023000023920

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: March 26, 1992

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 16

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 1

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 1

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

yes

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

absent

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

yes

Albert H. Small

yes

Adam S. Arthur

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on March 26, 1992, at 4:00 p.m. a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE (yes or no)COMMENTSW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.yesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesMortimer M. CaplinyesN. Thomas ConnallyyesHovey S. DabneyyesWarner N. DalhouseyesWaller H. HorsleyyesJ. Thomas HulveyyesEvans B. JesseeabsentMrs. Patricia M. KlugeyesArnold H. LeonyesLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.yesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr.yesS. Buford ScottyesAlbert H. SmallyesAdam S. Arthuryes

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: March 26, 1992

WHEREAS, the Audit Committee of the Board has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Audit Committee that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Audit Committee hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Audit Committee.

VOTE

AYES: 17

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 0

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 0

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

yes

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

yes

Albert H. Small

yes

Adam S. Arthur

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on March 26, 1992; 4:30 p.m. a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE (yes or no)COMMENTSW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.yesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesMortimer M. CaplinyesN. Thomas ConnallyyesHovey S. DabneyyesWarner N. DalhouseyesWaller H. HorsleyyesJ. Thomas HulveyyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. KlugeyesArnold H. LeonyesLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.yesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr.yesS. Buford ScottyesAlbert H. SmallyesAdam S. Arthuryes

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: March 28, 1992

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 3

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 3

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

absent

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

yes

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

absent

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Absented himself during discussion & abstained from voting on the Kenwood Estate Res

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

absent

Albert H. Small

yes

Adam S. Arthur

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on March 28, 1992; 9:00 a.m. a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE (yes or no)COMMENTSW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.yesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.absentMortimer M. CaplinyesN. Thomas ConnallyyesHovey S. DabneyyesWarner N. DalhouseyesWaller H. HorsleyyesJ. Thomas HulveyyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. KlugeabsentArnold H. LeonyesLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.yesAbsented himself during discussion & abstained from voting on the Kenwood Estate ResMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr.yesS. Buford ScottabsentAlbert H. SmallyesAdam S. Arthuryes
