---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1996'
month: 11
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1996) November 8, 1996
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

November 8, 1996

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS November 8-9, 1996
---------------------------------------------------------------

Establishment of the Daniels Family Distinguished Teaching Professorship in Arts and Sciences

Establishment of the MacAvoy Professorship in Business Administration

Establishment of the Paul Tudor Jones, II, Research Professorship in the McIntire School of Commerce and the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration

Establishment of the John Morton Beaty Professorship in Political Science at Clinch Valley College

Establishment of the Thomas C. Sorensen Institute for Political Leadership at the University of Virginia

Naming of the Law School Complex

Naming of the Former Darden Building

Naming of the Southern Connector at the Law School

Naming of the Northern Connector at the Law School

Naming of the Central Building at the New Darden School

Naming of the Spanish House

Approval of the Granting of an Easement to Virginia Power

Approval of the 1997 Capital Outlay Budget Amendments

Amendment to the Minutes of the June 15, 1996 Meeting of the Board of Visitors to Approve the Increase in the Number of Miller Center Council Members

Approval of Endowment Income Distribution

Signatory Authority for Leases of Real Estate

Charitable Gift Annuities

Trust Investment Policy

Pension Plan Documents Revision

Clinical Practice and Graduate Medical Education Policies

Approval of Schematic and Preliminary Design for the Health Sciences Center Parking Garage for 600 Vehicles

Approval of the Architect Selection for the Health Sciences Center Library Basement Development and Renovation

Approval of the Architect Selection for the Clark Hall Renovation and Addition

Approval of Reaffirmation of the Policy on University-Related Foundations

Approval of Board of Visitors Representatives to the Governing Boards of University-Related Foundations

Intent to Name the Campbell Hall Addition at a Future Date

Approval of Market Adjustment Stipends for University of Virginia Medical Center Housestaff

Intent to Address Deficiencies in Faculty Salaries

Virginia Health Information Technology Affiliates (VHITA) Affiliation Agreement

University Radiology Development Corporation (URADCO) Affiliation Agreement

Information Systems Joint Venture

Approval of Summary of Audit Findings

Faculty Personnel Actions:

Elections

Election of Chairholders

Changes of Title of Chairholders

Special Salary Action of Chairholders

Resignations of Chairholders

Promotions

Special Salary Actions

Resignations

Retirements

Appointments

Re-appointments

Election of Professors Emeriti

Deaths

Change in the Election to Professor Emeritus of Mr. Bruce A. Chartres

Change in the Resignation of Dr. Harold E. Crow

Change in the Promotion of Mr. Ervin L. Jordan, Jr.

Change in the Promotion of Mr. Patrick J. Michaels

Change in the Promotion of Mr. Gabriel Robins

Elections - Clinch Valley College

Promotions - Clinch Valley College

Special Salary Actions - Clinch Valley College

Resignations - Clinch Valley College

Appointments - Clinch Valley College

TENTATIVE MINUTES - SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA November 8-9, 1996
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 8:25 a.m., on Friday, November 8, 1996, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Sean N. Bryant, Champ Clark, Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Warner N. Dalhouse, William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Albert H. Small, Elizabeth A. Twohy, and Henry L. Valentine, II. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, Don E. Detmer, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 4:00 p.m., on Friday, November 8, 1996, in the Dome Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Sean N. Bryant, Champ Clark, Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Warner N. Dalhouse, William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Albert H. Small, Elizabeth A. Twohy, and Henry L. Valentine, II. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, Don E. Detmer, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 9:00 a.m., on Saturday, November 9, 1996, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Sean N. Bryant, Champ Clark, Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Warner N. Dalhouse, T. Keister Greer, Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Albert H. Small, Elizabeth A. Twohy, and Henry L. Valentine, II. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, Don E. Detmer, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, JUNE 15, 1996
-----------------------------------------------------------

The Minutes of the meeting of June 14-15, 1996, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

REPORT FROM THE AD HOC COMMITTEE ON POLICY REFORM
-------------------------------------------------

Mr. Clark gave a brief report on his project to examine the Board Minutes from 1958 forward and inventory the policies adopted by the Board. He is using a computer scanning device and except for a few computer glitches, the project is proceeding satisfactorily. He expects to have a report for the Board at the February Meeting.

Once the inventory is done, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform will consider the policies adopted over the years and make recommendations to the full Board as to what should be retained or discarded, or what should be changed.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESAUDIT COMMITTEEBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEEXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEEFINANCE COMMITTEEHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the Standing Committees to serve until the Annual Meeting in June 1997. The Committee assignments are as follows: AUDIT COMMITTEEFranklin K. Birckhead, ChairChamp ClarkArnold H. LeonHenry L. Valentine, II BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEAlbert H. Small, ChairChamp ClarkWarner N. DalhouseWilliam H. Goodwin, Jr.Evans B. Jessee EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEElizabeth A. Twohy, ChairJohn P. Ackerly, IIISean N. BryantMortimer M. CaplinCharles M. Caravati, Jr.T. Keister GreerElsie Goodwyn Holland EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEEArnold H. Leon, ChairJohn P. Ackerly, IIIMortimer M. CaplinCharles M. Caravati, Jr.T. Keister GreerElsie Goodwyn HollandAlbert H. SmallElizabeth A. Twohy FINANCE COMMITTEEMortimer M. Caplin, ChairFranklin K. BirckheadWarner N. DalhouseWilliam H. Goodwin, Jr.Arnold H. LeonC. Wilson McNeely, IIIHenry L. Valentine, II HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEECharles M. Caravati, Jr., ChairJohn P. Ackerly, IIIWilliam H. Goodwin, Jr.T. Keister GreerEvans B. JesseeC. Wilson McNeely, IIIAlbert H. Small STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEC. Wilson McNeely, III, ChairFranklin K. BirckheadSean N. BryantChamp ClarkElsie Goodwyn HollandElizabeth A. TwohyHenry L. Valentine, II

The Rector, Mr. Hovey S. Dabney, is an ex officio member of all committees.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF NOMINATION OF MR. SEAN N. BRYANT FOR A RHODES SCHOLARSHIP
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that Mr. Sean Bryant, Student Member on the Board, is one of eight students from the University to have been nominated for a Rhodes Scholarship. The students will now compete in their home states against students from other schools - in Sean's case, he will go before the Virginia state committee in Richmond in early December. If he receives a nomination from the state committee, he will compete in the regional finals in Atlanta a few days later. If he is successful there, he will be at Oxford next fall.

The Rector said that it is a great honor to have gotten a nomination from the University Rhodes Committee, and that the Board is proud of this recognition of Mr. Bryant's accomplishments.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT
-----------------------

The President told the Board about efforts that are being made to reduce the amount of material sent to Members in connection with Board meetings. On the Agenda itself, action items that concern routine housekeeping matters which do not require extensive explanation or documentation, will be treated as "Consent Agenda" actions and simply will be listed on the Committee Agendas with minimal explanation.

Beginning with the February Board meeting, the President said Members will be sent the Docket as is customary, at least ten days before the meeting. Rather than sending the Committee Agenda books at that point, however, there will be only a one page summary of each Committee Agenda included with the Docket. The Committee Agenda books will be available to Members on request before the meeting and will in any case be put in the Members' meeting books. The Gifts and Grants Report and the listing of Faculty Personnel actions henceforth will not be sent out with the Docket, but will be included, as usual, in Members' meeting books.

Mr. Jessee suggested that Members be sent the Committee books for the Committees to which they belong. The Secretary said he would poll Members before the next Docket is sent out to ascertain what material each would like to receive.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all voting Visitors present:

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of considering the University Auditor's recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, including Medical Center Payroll, Follow-up Audit of the University and Health Sciences Center, 1992-1994, EDP Follow-up Audit, 1996, 1995 Game Settlements, Printing Expenditures, Financial Aid, and W-2 Preparation and Distribution (University and Medical Center), as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending litigation, and other legal matters requiring the legal advice of the General Counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Health Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing the investment of public funds where competition or bargaining is involved when if made public initially the financial interest of the University would be adversely affected, as well as proposed business development strategies of the Medical Center, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(6) and (24) of the Code of Virginia.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DANIELS FAMILY DISTINGUISHED TEACHING PROFESSORSHIP IN ARTS AND SCIENCES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is established in the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Daniels Family Distinguished Teaching Professorship in Arts and Sciences. The Board is grateful to Mr. Terrence D. Daniels who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MACAVOY PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is established in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration a Chair to be known as the MacAvoy Professorship in Business Administration. The Board is grateful to Mr. Thomas C. MacAvoy who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PAUL TUDOR JONES, II, RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN THE MCINTIRE SCHOOL OF COMMERCE AND THE DARDEN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is established in the McIntire School of Commerce and the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration a Chair to be known as the Paul Tudor Jones, II, Research Professorship in the McIntire School of Commerce and the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration. The Board is grateful to Mr. Paul Tudor Jones, II, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOHN MORTON BEATY PROFESSORSHIP IN POLITICAL SCIENCE AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is established at Clinch Valley College in the Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences a Chair to be known as the John Morton Beaty Professorship in Political and Social Sciences. The Board is grateful to Mrs. Lelia Maude Richmond, Miss Sarah Beaty, and Mrs. Mayo Dotson who have made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE THOMAS C. SORENSEN INSTITUTE FOR POLITICAL LEADERSHIP AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is established in the Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service the Thomas C. Sorensen Institute for Political Leadership at the University of Virginia. The Board is grateful to Mr. Thomas C. Sorensen who made the establishment of this Institute possible.

NAMING OF THE LAW SCHOOL COMPLEX
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, David A. Harrison, III, of Prince George, a native of Petersburg, took both his Bachelor's and Law degrees from the University of Virginia; andWHEREAS, Mr. Harrison's generosity to the University has been as multi-faceted as it has been extraordinary; andWHEREAS, Mr. Harrison is a member of the Law School's Campaign Executive Committee and has been exceedingly generous to the School's Campaign;RESOLVED that the Law School Complex be named the David A. Harrison, III, Law Grounds.

NAMING OF THE FORMER DARDEN BUILDING
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, James C. Slaughter is an alumnus of the College and of the Law School; andWHEREAS, Mr. Slaughter is a member of the Law School Capital Campaign Executive Committee and of the Board of Trustees of the Law School Foundation; andWHEREAS, Mr. Slaughter has given generously of his time and resources and made the first major commitment to the Law School Capital Campaign;RESOLVED that the former Darden School Building, now a part of the Law School, be named Slaughter Hall in honor of James C. Slaughter.

NAMING OF THE SOUTHERN CONNECTOR AT THE LAW SCHOOL
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Buckner Clay, Sr., of Charleston, West Virginia, was a member of the Law Class of 1900; andWHEREAS, Mr. Clay's sons, Buckner Clay, Jr., and Lyell Clay, are also alumni of the University of Virginia, Lyell Clay being a member of the Law Class of 1948; andWHEREAS, Mr. Buckner Clay, Jr., and Mr. Lyell Clay have been exceedingly generous to the Law School;RESOLVED that the southern connector of the Law School be named Clay Hall in honor of Buckner Clay, Sr.

NAMING OF THE NORTHERN CONNECTOR AT THE LAW SCHOOL
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Hunton & Williams of Richmond, Virginia, is a law firm of national importance whose ties with the Law School date to the founding of the firm; andWHEREAS, members of Hunton & Williams serve on the Board of Trustees of the Law School Foundation and on the Law School Alumni Council; andWHEREAS, Hunton & Williams as a firm, and individual members of the firm, have made generous contributions in support of the present construction of the Law School Grounds and for a scholarship in the School;RESOLVED that the northern connector of the Law School be named Hunton & Williams Hall.

NAMING OF THE CENTRAL BUILDING AT THE NEW DARDEN SCHOOL
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Thomas A. Saunders, III, a member of the Darden Class of 1967, and his wife Mary Jordan Horner Saunders, have given of their time and resources to the University, particularly to the Darden School; andWHEREAS, Mr. Saunders is Chairman of the Darden Foundation Board of Trustees and has served as Chairman of the Campaign for Darden (Phase I); andWHEREAS, Mrs. Saunders was Chair of both the Committee which organized the Dinner on the Lawn for the public announcement of The Campaign for the University of Virginia, and the organizing committee for the ceremonies celebrating the opening of the new Darden School Grounds; andWHEREAS, Mr. and Mrs. Saunders have made a significant financial commitment to the Darden School;RESOLVED that the central building at the Darden School be named Saunders Hall.

NAMING OF THE SPANISH HOUSE
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Fernando Bolivar of Venezuela, nephew and adopted son of Simon Bolivar and an admirer of Thomas Jefferson, was a student at the University of Virginia in 1827, and thus an early exemplar of the strong and historic ties between the University and Hispanic America; andWHEREAS, the University's new Spanish House on Jefferson Park Avenue represents both a continuation and strengthening of these ties as well as an innovative way of teaching Spanish language and culture;RESOLVED that the Spanish House be named Casa Bolivar in honor of Fernando Bolivar.

APPROVAL OF THE GRANTING OF AN EASEMENT TO VIRGINIA POWER
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, dated November 8, 1996, to Virginia Power to permit the relocation of overhead power lines on University property, owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easements.

APPROVAL OF THE 1997 CAPITAL OUTLAY BUDGET AMENDMENTS
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1997 Capital Outlay Budget Amendments, dated November 8, 1996, for the University of Virginia Academic Division, and the University of Virginia Medical Center are approved.

AMENDMENT TO THE MINUTES OF THE JUNE 15, 1996 MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS TO APPROVE THE INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF MILLER CENTER COUNCIL MEMBERS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Amend the following resolution adopted at the June 15, 1996 meeting of the Board of Visitors to read as follows:

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the number of members of the Council of the White Burkett Miller Center for Public Affairs be increased from thirteen, plus two ex officio members, to fifteen plus two ex officio members, effective June 30, 1996.

APPROVAL OF ENDOWMENT INCOME DISTRIBUTION
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be authorized to increase the Growth & Income Fund per-share income distribution for fiscal year 1996-1997, by four percent over the amount distributed for Fiscal Year 1995-1996, for a per-share income distribution of $46.04 (distributed on a semiannual basis) for Fiscal Year 1996-1997;RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be authorized to distribute $18.22 per share (distributed on a semi-annual basis) as the Balanced Fund income distribution for Fiscal Year 1996-1997.

SIGNATORY AUTHORITY FOR LEASES OF REAL ESTATE
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the current policy on signatory authority, adopted by the Board of Visitors in January 1982, and amended most recently by the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors in September 1996, precludes University officials from approving leases of real estate for more than six months with an effective monthly rental exceeding $1,000, or the acquisition of a leasehold interest in real estate for more than one year with an effective annual rental exceeding $100,000; andWHEREAS the Board approved a policy statement governing exercise of autonomy in leases of property in June 1996; andWHEREAS procedures have been established and approved by the Secretary of Administration and the Secretary of Finance of the Commonwealth of Virginia pursuant to the policies approved by the Board in June;RESOLVED that subparagraphs 1(c) and 1(e) of the current policy on signatory authority be repealed.

CHARITABLE GIFT ANNUITIES
-------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the attached policies (Attachments A, B, and C) be adopted. Neither the faith and credit of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia nor that of the Commonwealth of Virginia are pledged to the payment of these annuities.

TRUST INVESTMENT POLICY
-----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the attached Trust Investment Policy (Attachment D) be amended, to adopt the same long-term asset allocation target as that of the University's Endowment (i.e., of 75 percent stocks and 25 percent bonds for trust) regardless of the payout rate. Net income trust assets would continue to be invested according to income requirements.

PENSION PLAN DOCUMENTS REVISION
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the University offers its faculty members the opportunity to save for retirement through a University-sponsored defined contribution plan; andWHEREAS under the terms of the University's defined contribution plan, the Board of Visitors has the sole authority to amend the plan; andWHEREAS the Board of Visitors finds that the plan document should be amended, in compliance with Internal Revenue Code requirements and state law, to create a trust to hold funds in the plan, with appointment of a trustee to monitor the funds' investment, and to reflect accurately: (1) current practice regarding faculty members' right to elect the plan, and (2) the formula used to calculate plan contributions; andWHEREAS the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, with the assistance of appropriate University officers and appointed counsel, has prepared a restated plan document incorporating the above-described amendments; andWHEREAS the Board of Visitors finds that its own Investment Subcommittee is an appropriate body to serve as trustee of the trust established under the amended and restated plan; andWHEREAS the Board of Visitors also finds that it would be appropriate to delegate authority to administer the plan to the appropriate University officials who, because of their various duties and responsibilities, are in the best position to oversee and administer the plan's operations;RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized and directed to execute an amended and restated defined contribution plan which shall be substantially similar in all material respects to the draft attached hereto (Attachment E);RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized and directed to take such actions as may be necessary to secure from the Internal Revenue Service a favorable letter of determination that the amended and restated plan providing for the trust satisfies the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code, and to make such further amendments as may be necessary to secure such approval from the Internal Revenue Service;RESOLVED FURTHER that the Investment Subcommittee of the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors is appointed as trustee of the trust created under the amended and restated plan;RESOLVED FURTHER that subject to the President's continuing administrative powers and authority, the Chief Human Resource Officer is delegated the authority and responsibility to oversee and administer the plan.

CLINICAL PRACTICE AND GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICIES
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that subject to the continuing authority and policies of the Board of Visitors, the Medical Policy Council is hereby delegated authority to establish operational policies and medical staff by-laws governing the teaching and delivery of graduate medical education and all clinical activities of the University of Virginia, including inpatient and outpatient services;RESOLVED FURTHER that all affiliated organizations providing clinical services or graduate medical education at or on University facilities shall, as a condition of their use of such facilities, be subject to the aforesaid operational policies and medical staff by-laws of the Medical Policy Council;RESOLVED FURTHER that the aforesaid policies and by-laws of the Medical Policy Council, which shall be amended from time to time, should likewise govern the graduate medical education and clinical activities of affiliated organizations at or on non-University facilities and the University of Virginia Health Sciences Center is hereby directed to take steps necessary to ensure that the aforesaid policies and by-laws, and any changes thereto, are communicated in a timely manner to, and adopted by, such affiliated organizations.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC AND PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE HEALTH SCIENCES CENTER PARKING GARAGE FOR 600 VEHICLES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the schematic and preliminary designs for the Health Sciences Center Parking Garage for 600 Vehicles project as illustrated on drawings titled:1. Site and Context2. Building Plans3. Building Elevations4. Axonometric Viewsdated November 8, 1996, and prepared by Tobey + Davis with Davis Brody and Associates of Reston, Virginia, be approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF THE ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE HEALTH SCIENCES CENTER LIBRARY BASEMENT DEVELOPMENT AND RENOVATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Ayers Saint Gross is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Health Sciences Center Library Basement Development and Renovation project, subject to the approval of the Board of Visitors.

APPROVAL OF THE ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE CLARK HALL RENOVATION AND ADDITION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Ellenzweig Associates, Inc., is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the planning of the Clark Hall Renovation and Addition project, subject to the approval of the Board of Visitors;RESOLVED FURTHER that at the option of the University administration, the firm may later be retained to perform full architectural and engineering services.

APPROVAL OF REAFFIRMATION OF THE POLICY ON UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Board reaffirms the resolution adopted on October 9, 1992, concerning University-related foundations, and calls on the governing boards of all related foundations to review this resolution annually with appropriate and regular attention to the stipulations in the "Policy on University-Related Foundations" regarding dealings with the University and its employees, employment of fund raisers who act on behalf of University or related entities, and conflict of interest concerns.

APPROVAL OF BOARD OF VISITORS REPRESENTATIVES TO THE GOVERNING BOARDS OF UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Alumni Association of the University of Virginia

C. Wilson McNeely, III

Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund

Robert V. Hatcher, Jr.

Virginia Auxiliary Services Foundation

William C. Battle

Boar's Head Enterprises, Inc.

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

Clinch Valley College Foundation

J. Thomas Hulvey

Curry School of Education Foundation

Elizabeth D. Morie

Darden School Foundation

Lemuel E. Lewis

Friends of the University of Virginia's Blandy Experimental Farm

David C. Benjamin

HealthCare Partners, Inc.

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

University of Virginia Health Services Foundation

Paul H. Wood

Historic Renovation Corporation

David W. Carr

University of Virginia Law School Foundation

Mortimer M. Caplin

McIntire School of Commerce Foundation

Elizabeth A. Twohy

University of Virginia Medical School Alumni Association

N. Thomas Connally

University of Virginia Medical School Foundation

N. Thomas Connally

Miller Center Foundation

Hovey S. Dabney

University of Virginia Patents Foundation

Haydn N.G. Wadley

University of Virginia Foundation

Hovey S. Dabney

University Real Estate Foundation

Hovey S. Dabney

Virginia Ambulatory Surgery, Inc.

R. Scott Jones

Virginia Engineering Foundation

C. Wilson McNeely, III

Virginia Kidney Stone Foundation

Jay Y. Gillenwater

Virginia Student Aid Foundation

M. Terry Holland

Virginia Tax Foundation, Inc.

Joseph E. Gibson

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are approved as representatives of the Board of Visitors to the governing boards of the following University-related foundations: Alumni Association of the University of VirginiaC. Wilson McNeely, IIIAlumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment FundRobert V. Hatcher, Jr.Virginia Auxiliary Services FoundationWilliam C. BattleBoar's Head Enterprises, Inc.Robert G. Butcher, Jr. Clinch Valley College FoundationJ. Thomas HulveyCurry School of Education FoundationElizabeth D. MorieDarden School FoundationLemuel E. LewisFriends of the University of Virginia's Blandy Experimental FarmDavid C. BenjaminHealthCare Partners, Inc.Charles M. Caravati, Jr.University of Virginia Health Services FoundationPaul H. WoodHistoric Renovation CorporationDavid W. CarrUniversity of Virginia Law School FoundationMortimer M. CaplinMcIntire School of Commerce FoundationElizabeth A. TwohyUniversity of Virginia Medical School Alumni AssociationN. Thomas ConnallyUniversity of Virginia Medical School FoundationN. Thomas ConnallyMiller Center FoundationHovey S. DabneyUniversity of Virginia Patents FoundationHaydn N.G. WadleyUniversity of Virginia FoundationHovey S. DabneyUniversity Real Estate FoundationHovey S. DabneyVirginia Ambulatory Surgery, Inc.R. Scott Jones Virginia Engineering FoundationC. Wilson McNeely, IIIVirginia Kidney Stone FoundationJay Y. GillenwaterVirginia Student Aid FoundationM. Terry HollandVirginia Tax Foundation, Inc.Joseph E. Gibson

INTENT TO NAME THE CAMPBELL HALL ADDITION AT A FUTURE DATE
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Victor Elmaleh of New York took a Bachelor's degree from the School of Architecture in 1942; andWHEREAS, the School of Architecture is planning an addition to Campbell Hall, construction that has been approved in concept by the Board of Visitors; andWHEREAS, Mr. Elmaleh has stated his intention of making a gift of $1,500,000 to the University toward the construction of the addition to Campbell Hall;RESOLVED that the Board thanks Mr. Elmaleh for his support and very generous pledge and notes its intention of naming the Campbell Hall addition for Mr. Elmaleh at a future date.

APPROVAL OF MARKET ADJUSTMENT STIPENDS FOR UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER HOUSESTAFFUniversity of Virginia Medical Center Housestaff Stipends
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CLASS TITLE

YEAR

\# OF FTE's

UVa CURRENT

1995-96 COTH BENCHMARK

MCV CURRENT

PROPOSED INCREASE 12/01/96

PERCENT INCREASE

HCP Resident

1

103

$29,278

$30,000

$29,696

$30,742

5.0%

HCP Resident

2

94

30,908

31,348

31,348

32,453

5.0%

HCP Resident

3

99

32,544

32,520

33,008

33,846

4.0%

HCP Resident

4

63

33,977

33,570

34,461

34,677

2.1%

HCP Resident

5

64

35,805

35,211

36,316

36,521

2.0%

HCP Resident

6

30

37,489

36,504

38,023

37,489

0%

HCP Resident

7

12

39,824

n/a

40,392

39,824

0%

HCP Resident

8

12

42,124

n/a

42,726

42,124

0%

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS legislation enacted by the 1990 General Assembly authorized the Board of Visitors to establish competitive compensation programs for Health Care Professionals, including Housestaff, employed in the University of Virginia Medical Center; andWHEREAS the results of the annual survey conducted by the Council of Teaching Hospitals (COTH), which serves as the basis for establishing Housestaff stipends at the University of Virginia Medical Center, was received recently; andWHEREAS the survey results support an adjustment in the stipends paid Housestaff to permit the University of Virginia Medical Center to maintain its objective of paying stipends which are at or near the 50th percentile of state-owned teaching hospitals;RESOLVED that the accompanying proposed increases for Housestaff be approved, subject to the concurrence of the Secretary of Education of the Commonwealth of Virginia, to become effective on December 1, 1996. University of Virginia Medical Center Housestaff StipendsCLASS TITLEYEAR# OF FTE'sUVa CURRENT1995-96 COTH BENCHMARKMCV CURRENTPROPOSED INCREASE 12/01/96PERCENT INCREASEHCP Resident1103$29,278$30,000$29,696$30,7425.0%HCP Resident29430,90831,34831,34832,4535.0%HCP Resident39932,54432,52033,00833,8464.0%HCP Resident46333,97733,57034,46134,6772.1%HCP Resident56435,80535,21136,31636,5212.0%HCP Resident63037,48936,50438,02337,4890%HCP Resident71239,824n/a40,39239,8240%HCP Resident81242,124n/a42,72642,1240%

INTENT TO ADDRESS DEFICIENCIES IN FACULTY SALARIES
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, faculty of the highest quality are essential to the University's reputation and academic programs; andWHEREAS, the salaries paid to faculty in several schools of the University have failed to keep pace with peer institutions since the budget cuts experienced in the early 1990s; andWHEREAS, the current salary situation is having a serious effect on the ability of several schools to attract and retain faculty of the highest quality, is threatening the University's ability to retain its ranking at the top of the Nation's public institutions, and is causing severe morale problems;RESOLVED that The Rector and Visitors intend to address demonstrated deficiencies in faculty salaries; andFURTHER RESOLVED that the President be and he is hereby requested to implement a plan to use resources available to the University and the schools to improve measurably the salaries paid to members of the faculty over the period 1996-1999; andFURTHER RESOLVED that it is the intent of the Board of Visitors consistent with Section 23-9.2. of the Code of Virginia, that these improvements in faculty salaries be in addition to and not in lieu of the salary increases that may be authorized by the Commonwealth of Virginia. The President is requested to work with the State Council of Higher Education and the Executive and Legislative branches of state government to find means to assure that this will be the case.

VIRGINIA HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AFFILIATES (VHITA) AFFILIATION AGREEMENT
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS HealthCare Partners, Inc., a University-related foundation, proposes to enter into a new business venture: the development, application and promotion of health information technology, through its ownership of a for-profit corporation, Virginia Health Information Technology Affiliates, Inc. ("VHITA");WHEREAS under the Policy on University-related Foundations, HealthCare Partners is required to submit all new business ventures for approval of the Board of Visitors;WHEREAS the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences recommends that in the best interests of the University of Virginia Health Sciences Center, approval be granted for this venture;RESOLVED that the ownership by HealthCare Partners, Inc., of VHITA be approved; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized, with advice of the General Counsel, to execute such agreement or agreements as may be in the University's best interest, and with appropriate compensation, for provision of access to specified University facilities and services to VHITA.

UNIVERSITY RADIOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (URADCO) AFFILIATION AGREEMENT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the University Policy on University-related Foundations requires that foundations submit for Board of Visitors' approval any new business venture;WHEREAS the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences recommends that the Board of Visitors approve the entry by the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation ("HSF") into a new business venture, through its ownership of a for-profit corporation, University Radiology Development Corporation ("URADCO");RESOLVED that the ownership of URADCO by HSF is approved; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized, following consultation with the General Counsel, to execute such agreements as may be in the University's best interests, with appropriate compensation, for provision of University facilities and services to URADCO.

GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
----------------------------

The President reported on Gifts, Grants, and Contracts. The Report was accepted by the Board.

REPORT ON ACTIONS FROM THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Sandridge, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, reported on the following actions adopted by the Executive Committee at its meeting on September 20, 1996:

1\. Signatory Authority for Contracts

2\. Quasi-Endowment Transactions

3\. Naming of Tennis Center the Sheridan G. Snyder Tennis Center at Lady Astor Courts.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR
--------------------

The Rector reported that he and Mr. Sandridge, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, had met the day before at mid-day with a group of about thirty University employees on the Lawn steps of the Rotunda. The employees, who were led by Ms. Joyce Breeden of the Registrar's Office and Mr. Kevin Cox of the Biochemistry Department, were gathered to protest the new State pay plan.

The group presented five points, directed to the Rector, the President and the Executive Vice President (See Attachment F). The Rector received this listing, along with a petition protesting "lag pay" which was signed by 482 employees.

The Rector then read the following statement to the Board and turned the matter over to the President and Mr. Sandridge for handling:

"We have long facilitated communications to all employees within the University through councils, focus groups, and town meetings. Our efforts have involved the consideration of different models. We will continue to work with employees to find the most effective means of communication.

"We report to all employees on legislative matters involving the work force. Our commitment to these communications involve written and electronic methods. We are constantly trying to improve these procedures and believe the results of our efforts are effective.

"We have been and will continue to work with the administration and the legislature to resolve the 'Lag Pay' issue in a way that is most responsive to the needs of our employees.

"We will continue to take all reasonable and appropriate steps to facilitate the conversion to any new pay system that involves the delay of pay for our employees. This may include special one-time transition programs involving the Credit Union."

INFORMATION SYSTEMS JOINT VENTURE
---------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the University desires to enter into a joint venture with the University Health Services Foundation (HSF) and Integrated HealthCare Solutions (IHS) to manage and integrate the University of Virginia Medical Center clinical information system operations and to develop, sell and distribute information system products to Virginia providers;WHEREAS Section 23-77.3 of the Code of Virginia grants authority for the University of Virginia Medical Center to enter into joint ventures;RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, in consultation with the Rector, the Chair of the Health Affairs Committee, the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences and the General Counsel, is authorized to negotiate with IHS the proposed joint venture and upon ratification by the Executive Committee of the Board, to sign such documents on behalf of the University as may be necessary to enter into the joint venture on or about December 1, 1996, with HSF and IHS for the purposes aforesaid.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period May 1, 1996 through September 30, 1996, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONS
----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. Emaad M. Abdel-Rahman as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective August 12, 1996.Mr. John D. Albertson as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for academic four years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Gerard Alexander as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. David T. Auble as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective July 8, 1996.Dr. Kimberley L. Bauman as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective August 1, 1996.Mr. Francis B. Boateng as Assistant Professor of Research in Neurosurgery, for one year, effective May 16, 1996.Dr. Alison S. Carr as Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, for one year, effective June 1, 1996.Dr. Brian A. Casazza as Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, for three years, effective August 1, 1996.Mr. Stephen J. Chapin as Research Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Mark R. Conaway as Associate Professor of Health Evaluation Sciences, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. Alfred F. Connors, Jr. as Professor of Health Evaluation Sciences, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Patrick J. Dennis as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Jie Du as Visiting Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Melinda L. Ferguson as Assistant Professor of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective August 1, 1996.Dr. Nathan B. Fountain as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. Benjamin M. Gaston as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Kyra D. Gaunt as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Robert P. Geraci as Assistant Professor of History, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Tamara Giles-Verneck as Assistant Professor of History, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Stephen D. Gladis as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1996.Ms. Lori L. Graham as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Jeffrey A. Grossman as Assistant Professor of German, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Gerald R. Hankins as Assistant Professor of Research in Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Celia V. Harquail as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Walter F. Heinecke as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Gregory A. Helm as Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Andrew C. Hillier as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. James L. Huneycutt as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Christopher O. Justice as Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Gretchan A. Kalsow as Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Michelle R. Kisliuk as Assistant Professor of Music, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Timothy R. Konold as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Michele M. Kosiewicz as Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Krishan Kumar as Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Mildred Lam as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. James H. Lambert as Research Assistant Professor of Systems Engineering, for three years, effective August 1, 1996.Mr. John C. Lawrence, Jr. as Professor of Pharmacology, effective June 1, 1996.Mr. Ross E. Levine as Associate Professor of Economics, effective January 16, 1997.Ms. Ulrike M. Lorenz as Assistant Professor of Research in Microbiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Elizabeth J. MacArthur as Associate Professor of French, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. John M. MacKnight as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 15, 1996.Dr. Debbie M. Mack as Assistant Professor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine, for one year, effective July 23, 1996.Dr. Karen L. Maughan as Assistant Professor of Clinical Family Medicine, for two years, effective April 1, 1996.Dr. Mark J. Mendelsohn as Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for three years, effective August 1, 1996.Ms. Ingrid Monson as Assistant Professor of Music, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Christopher A. Moskaluk as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Linda E. Muske as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Jennifer E. O'Flaherty as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 15, 1996.Mr. Bryce M. Paschal as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Gina R. Petroni as Assistant Professor of Health Evaluation Sciences, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. Steven M. Powell as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Norman Ramsey as Research Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for one year, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Andrei S. Rapinchuk as Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Kodimangalam S. Ravichandran as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for two years, effective April 15, 1996.Dr. Pamela A. Ross as Assistant Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine, for three years, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Elena Russo as Associate Professor of French, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Robert G. Sawyer as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. Bernard F. Schneider as Assistant Professor of Clinical Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology, for one year, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Laura B. Smolkin as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Mircea R. Stan as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Elizabeth Thompson as Assistant Professor of History, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Michael C. Wiener as Assistant Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, for three years, effective August 1, 1996.Dr. Mark T. Worthington as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Ziyin Zhang as Assistant Professor of Research in Neuroscience, for one year, effective July 1, 1996.

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of Chairholder(s)Mr. Samuel E. Bodily as John Tyler Professor of Administration, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Herbert T. Braun as Horace W. Goldsmsith Distinguished Teaching Professor in the Humanities, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Carolyn M. Callahan as William Clay Parrish, Jr., Professor of Education, for two years, effective July 1, 1996. Ms. Callahan will continue as Professor of Education, without term.Ms. Cora Diamond as University Professor, effective September 1, 1996. Ms. Diamond will continue as Professor of Law and Kenan Professor of Philosophy, without term.Mr. Justus Fetscher as Max Kade Visiting Professor of German, for one semester, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Leslie E. Grayson as Isidore Horween Research Professor of Business Administration, for two years, effective June 1, 1996. Mr. Grayson will continue as Professor of International Business Economics, without term.Mr. Daniel P. Hallahan as Virgil S. Ward Professor of Education, for two years, effective July 1, 1996. Mr. Hallahan will continue as Professor of Education, without term.Ms. Janine C. Jagger as Becton Dickinson Professor of Health Care Worker Safety, effective September 1, 1996. Ms. Jagger will continue as Associate Professor of Research in Neurosurgery for the period June 1, 1996 through May 31, 1999.Mr. Stephen H. Jones as Lucien Carr III Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1996. Mr. Jones will continue as Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, without term.Mr. Daniel J. Larson as Maxine S. and Jesse W. Beams Professor of Physics, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. S. Joseph Poon as William Barton Rogers Professor of Physics, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Robert E. Spekman as Tayloe Murphy Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. John A. Stankovic as BP America Professor of Science and Technology and Professor of Computer Science, for four years, effective January 1, 1997.Mr. Thomas H. Williams as Frank Talbott, Jr. Visiting Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996.(b) Changes of Title of Chairholder(s)Mr. Robert F. Bruner from Robert F. Vandell Research Professor of Business Administration to Distinguished Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Robert S. Kemp from Martin J. Patsel, Jr. Research Professor of Commerce to Ramon W. Breeden, Sr. Research Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996. Mr. Kemp will continue as Professor of Commerce, without term.(d) Resignations of Chairholder(s)

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Barry E. Adler, Professor of Law and Sullivan and Cromwell Professor of Law, effective June 30, 1996, to accept another position.Mr. David Novak, Edgar M. Bronfman Professor of Modern Judaic Studies, effective January 15, 1997, to accept another position.Mr. Michael Shur, John Marshall Money Professor of Engineering, effective August 26, 1996, to accept another position.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members are hereby promoted:Mr. Richard D. Balnave from Associate Professor, General Faculty to Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Donal B. Day from Research Associate Professor of Physics to Research Professor of Physics, for three years, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Sarah P. Farrell from Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. John M. Unsworth from Associate Professor of English, with term to Associate Professor of English, without term, effective September 1, 1996.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Alan P. Agins, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective May 10, 1996, for personal reasons.Mr. Ravikumar Balasubrahmanian, Associate Professor of Economics, effective May 31, 1996, to accept another position.Dr. David G. Brock, Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, effective July 31, 1996, for personal reasons.Mr. Theodore S. Brockett, Research Assistant Professor of Mechanical, Aerospace and Nuclear Engineering, effective August 31, 1996, to accept another position.Dr. John Broderick-Cantwell, Assistant Professor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine, effective July 1, 1996, to accept another position.Ms. Sharon E. Chilcote-Doner, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective September 1, 1996, for personal reasons.Mr. R. James Clack, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective June 30, 1996, to accept another position.Ms. Patricia F. Coopersmith, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective September 1, 1996, for personal reasons.Ms. Diane L. Damiano, Assistant Professor of Research in Orthopaedic Surgery, effective August 31, 1996, to accept another position.Mr. Vijay S. Desai, Assistant Professor of Commerce, effective May 31, 1996, to accept another position.Mr. Carlos M.N. Eire, Professor of Religious Studies, effective August 31, 1996, to accept another position.Ms. Joyce A. Feucht-Haviar, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective August 30, 1996, to accept another position.Dr. Janet E. Greenman, Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, effective July 9, 1996, for personal reasons.Dr. Jerry A. Hall, Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, effective June 30, 1996, to accept another position.Ms. Bonnie Guiton Hill, Professor of Commerce, effective January 1, 1997, for personal reasons.Dr. Harvey N. Himel, Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, effective July 31, 1996, to accept another position.Ms. Patricia K. Martin, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective August 31, 1996, to accept another position.Ms. Dayna B. Matthew, Assistant Professor of Law, effective June 1, 1996, for personal reasons.Ms. Cassandra Maxwell-Simmons, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective July 31, 1996, for personal reasons.Dr. Jay A. McDonald, Associate Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, effective August 8, 1996, for personal reasons.Dr. Geoffrey Nixon Morris, Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, effective June 30, 1996, for personal reasons.Dr. Guy E. Nichols, Assistant Professor of Pathology, effective June 7, 1996, to accept another position.Dr. Neal R. Nygard, Assistant Professor of Research in Pathology, effective June 30, 1996, to accept another position.Mr. Todd E. Peterson, Research Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective August 31, 1996, to accept another position.Mr. Arvind K. Ramadorai, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective August 31, 1996, for personal reasons.Mr. John T. Rice, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective October 31, 1996, for personal reasons.Dr. Fidelma B. Rigby, Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective August 16, 1996, for personal reasons.Mr. Robert Rotella, Associate Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1996, for personal reasons.Mr. Gordon S. Rule, Associate Professor of Biochemistry, effective July 31, 1996, to accept another position.Mr. Christopher F. Sacchi, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective May 13, 1996, to accept another position.Mr. Ron W. Simmons, Professor, General Faculty and Professor of Humanities, effective July 1, 1996, for personal reasons.Ms. Jean Sorrells-Jones, Associate Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, effective June 30, 1996, for personal reasons.Dr. Thomas A. Spraggins, Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective May 27, 1996, to accept another position.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Alex J. Baertschi, Associate Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, effective April 15, 1996. Mr. Baertschi has been a member of the faculty since September 30, 1983.Mr. Charles C. Sisson, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective November 1, 1996. Mr. Sisson has been a member of the faculty since July 19, 1971.Mr. Franklin E. Wawner, Research Professor of Materials Science, effective December 31, 1996. Mr. Wawner has been a member of the faculty since February 1, 1971.Mr. James S. Young, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 30, 1996. Mr. Young has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1978.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Paul J. Forch as University General Counsel, for five years, effective October 1, 1996.Ms. Marilyn S. Lockhart as Process Simplification Analyst, for one year, effective July 9, 1996.Ms. Nancy A. Nicoletto as Assistant to the Vice President for Management and Budget, for three years, effective August 26, 1996.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Ms. Louise M. Dudley as Director, University Relations, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Dolly J. Prenzel as Chief Contracting Officer, for three years, effective July 1, 1996Dr. James C. Turner as Director of Student Health, for five years, effective July 1, 1996.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Franklin E. Wawner, Research Professor of Materials Science, effective December 31, 1996.Mr. James S. Young, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 30, 1996.

DEATH
-----

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION TO PROFESSOR EMERITUS OF MR. BRUCE A. CHARTRES
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Mr. Bruce A. Chartres, as Professor Emeritus, effective May 31, 1996, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of April 11, 1996, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Bruce A. Chartres, Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, is hereby elected Professor Emeritus, effective May 31, 1996.

CHANGE IN THE RESIGNATION OF DR. HAROLD E. CROW
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the resignation of Dr. Harold E. Crow as Professor of Family Medicine, effective March 31, 1996, to accept an American Psychological Association Congressional Fellowship, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of June 15, 1996, be changed to read as follows:Dr. Harold E. Crow, Professor of Clinical Family Medicine, effective March 31, 1996, to accept an American Psychological Association Congressional Fellowship.

CHANGE IN THE PROMOTION OF MR. ERVIN L. JORDAN, JR.
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the promotion of Mr. Ervin L. Jordan, Jr., from Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, to Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective September 1, 1996, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of June 15, 1996, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Ervin L. Jordan, Jr., from Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, to Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.

CHANGE IN THE PROMOTION OF MR. PATRICK J. MICHAELS
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the promotion of Mr. Patrick J. Michaels, from Research Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences to Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for two years, effective July 1, 1996, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of June 15, 1996, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Patrick J. Michaels from Research Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences to Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.

CHANGE IN THE PROMOTION OF MR. GABRIEL ROBINS
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the promotion of Mr. Gabriel Robins, from Assistant Professor of Engineering to Associate Professor of Engineering, effective September 1, 1996, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of June 15, 1996, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Gabriel Robins from Assistant Professor of Computer Science to Associate Professor of Computer Science, effective September 1, 1996.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEELECTIONS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected to the faculty:Ms. Kristina Feeser as Assistant Professor of Psychology, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Cathy C. Roberts as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Mary R. Tighe as Assistant Professor of Communication, Clinch Valley College, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Kenneth J. Tiller as Assistant Professor of English, Clinch Valley College, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Patrick W. Withen as Assistant Professor of Sociology, Clinch Valley College, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1996.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members are hereby promoted:Mr. Christopher F. Achua from Assistant Professor of Management and Marketing to Associate Professor of Management and Marketing, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Sandra C. Richardson from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Kenneth K. Frank, Assistant Professor of Management, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1996, to accept another position.Ms. Mary Lou Frank, Associate Professor of Psychology, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1996, to accept another position.Mr. Prasad Polamraju, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1996, for personal reasons.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Ms. Polly King Ewell as Interim Assistant to the Chancellor, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 4:30 p.m., on Friday, November 8, 1996, and at 9:25 a.m., on Saturday, November 9, 1996.

AGG:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: November 8, 1996

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 17

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 0

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 0

ATTACHMENT A GIFT ANNUITY POLICY FOR ANNUITANTS RESIDING IN THE COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIAATTACHMENT B GIFT ANNUITY POLICY FOR ANNUITANTS IN UNRESTRICTED STATES OTHER THAN VIRGINIAATTACHMENT C Gift Annuity Policy For Annuitants in Restricted StatesATTACHMENT D TRUST FUNDS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NAME

VOTE yes or no

COMMENTS

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

John P. Ackerly, III

yes

Franklin K. Birckhead

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

Champ Clark

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

yes

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

yes

T. Keister Greer

yes

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

C. Wilson McNeely, III

yes

Albert H. Small

yes

Elizabeth A. Twohy

yes

Henry L. Valentine, II

yes

Sean N. Bryant

yes

Acceptable Forms:

Current, deferred, and commuted ("tuition") payment charitable gift annuities

Funding Minimum:

$5,000

Minimum Age at First Payment:

60 years; for commuted payment annuities, a maximum of 26 years to expected final payout to the University

Income Beneficiaries:

Up to two income beneficiaries

Charitable Remainder Beneficiaries:

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and University of Virginia related foundations only

Payout Rates:

Consistent with, or lower than, the rates published by the American Council on Gift Annuities (ACGA) that are in effect at the time of the gift. Commuted payment ("tuition") gift annuity rates will be based on the ACGA assumptions and adjusted for the deferral.

Timing of Annuity Payments:

On the last day of each calendar quarter, March, June, September and December

Distribution to Beneficiaries:

Distribute the remainder value of the annuity account at the end of the obligation.

Contractor:

University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation

Investment Management:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will appoint the Rector and Visitors as its agent for purposes of investment management.

The primary investment objective is to comply with the state regulations governing gift annuity contracts. The secondary objective is to provide for the growth in assets held in the annuity account.

Unrestricted assets will generally be invested in the University's Growth & Income Fund. Restricted assets will be invested in the University's Bond Fund. Other investment vehicles are available as outlined in the University's guidelines for Trust Funds.

Compliance:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will insure that it is in compliance with the regulations governing charitable gift annuities in each state.

Administration:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will administer or contract for the administration of the gift annuity program.

Fees:

All reasonable investment management and administrative fees will be assessed to the gift annuity pool.

Approval of States:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation is responsible for the approval of states in which it will offer charitable gift annuities. New states should not be entered without the expectation that the program in that state will reach and maintain a $100,000 minimum level.

Acceptable Forms:

Current, deferred, and commuted ("tuition") payment charitable gift annuities

Funding Minimum:

Age (Years)

Minimum

60-69

$20,000

70-79

$15,000

\> 80

$10,000

Minimum Age at First Payment:

60 years; for commuted payment annuities, a maximum of 26 years to expected final payout to the University

Income Beneficiaries:

Up to two income beneficiaries

Charitable Remainder Beneficiaries:

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and University of Virginia related foundations only

Payout Rates:

Consistent with, or lower than, the rates published by the American Council on Gift Annuities (ACGA) that are in effect at the time of the gift. Commuted payment ("tuition") gift annuity rates will be based on the ACGA assumptions and adjusted for the deferral.

Timing of Annuity Payments:

On the last day of each calendar quarter, March, June, September and December

Distribution to Beneficiaries:

Distribute the remainder value of the annuity account at the end of the obligation.

Contractor:

University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation

Investment Management:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will appoint the Rector and Visitors as its agent for purposes of investment management.

The primary investment objective is to comply with the state regulations governing gift annuity contracts. The secondary objective is to provide for the growth in assets held in the annuity account.

Unrestricted assets will generally be invested in the University's Growth & Income Fund. Restricted assets will be invested in the University's Bond Fund. Other investment vehicles are available as outlined in the University's guidelines for Trust Funds.

Compliance:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will insure that it is in compliance with the regulations governing charitable gift annuities in each state.

Administration:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will administer or contract for the administration of the gift annuity program.

Fees:

All reasonable investment management and administrative fees will be assessed to the gift annuity pool.

Approval of States:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation is responsible for the approval of states in which it will offer charitable gift annuities. New states should not be entered without the expectation that the program in that state will reach and maintain a $300,000 minimum level.

Acceptable Forms:

Current, deferred, and commuted ("tuition") payment charitable gift annuities

Funding Minimum:

Age (Years)

Minimum

60-69

$65,000

70-79

$35,000

\> 80

$15,000

Minimum Age at First Payment:

60 years; for commuted payment annuities, a maximum of 26 years to expected final payout to the University.

Income Beneficiaries:

Up to two income beneficiaries

Charitable Remainder Beneficiaries:

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and University of Virginia related foundations only

Payout Rates:

Consistent with, or lower than, the rates published by the American Council on Gift Annuities (ACGA) that are in effect at the time of the gift. Deferred gift annuity and commuted payment ("tuition") gift annuity rates will be based on the ACGA assumptions, adjusted for the deferral.

Timing of Annuity Payments:

On the last day of each calendar quarter, March, June, September and December

Distribution to Beneficiaries:

Distribute the remainder value of the annuity account at the end of the obligation.

Contractor:

University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation

Investment Management:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will appoint the Rector and Visitors as its agent for purposes of investment management.

The primary investment objective is to comply with the state regulations governing gift annuity contracts. The secondary objective is to provide for the growth in assets held in the annuity account.

Unrestricted assets will generally be invested in the University's Growth & Income Fund. Restricted assets will be invested in the University's Bond Fund. Other investment vehicles are available as outlined in the University's guidelines for Trust Funds.

Compliance:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will insure that it is in compliance with the regulations governing charitable gift annuities in each state.

Administration:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will administer or contract for the administration of the gift annuity program.

Fees:

All reasonable investment management and administrative fees will be assessed to the gift annuity pool.

FUND OUTLINE

TRUST FUNDS

Investment Objective

The primary objective is to comply with the terms of the Trust Agreement with regard to specific income requirements. The secondary objective is to preserve and enhance the real (inflation-adjusted) purchasing power of the principal and to provide for growth in income.

Investment Philosophy

Investments will be made from a stable, long-term perspective with moderate turnover. Although investments for individual Trusts need not be fully diversified by asset class, diversification should be sufficient to meet fiduciary standards. Extreme positions or very opportunistic styles should be avoided.

Where the trust document allows, charitable remainder unitrust and annuity trust assets will be invested according to the long-term endowment asset allocation target of 75 percent stocks and 25 percent bonds. Net income trust assets will be allocated between equities and bonds according to trust income requirements.

Investment Vehicles

The following pooled funds may be used: Vanguard Group, Fidelity Investments, T. Rowe Price, Fiduciary Trust Company International, and University of Virginia Pooled Funds.

Portfolios of individual common stocks may be created on rare occasions to meet specific requirements of the Agreement with the approval of the Executive Vice President and, at his discretion, the Investment Subcommittee of the Board of Visitors.

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Friday, November 8, 1996, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE yes or noCOMMENTSHovey S. DabneyyesJohn P. Ackerly, IIIyesFranklin K. BirckheadyesMortimer M. CaplinyesCharles M. Caravati, Jr.yesChamp ClarkyesWarner N. DalhouseyesWilliam H. Goodwin, Jr.yesT. Keister GreeryesMrs. Elsie Goodwyn HollandyesEvans B. JesseeyesArnold H. LeonyesC. Wilson McNeely, IIIyesAlbert H. SmallyesElizabeth A. TwohyyesHenry L. Valentine, IIyesSean N. Bryantyes

ATTACHMENT A GIFT ANNUITY POLICY FOR ANNUITANTS RESIDING IN THE COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIAAcceptable Forms:Current, deferred, and commuted ("tuition") payment charitable gift annuitiesFunding Minimum:$5,000Minimum Age at First Payment:60 years; for commuted payment annuities, a maximum of 26 years to expected final payout to the UniversityIncome Beneficiaries:Up to two income beneficiariesCharitable Remainder Beneficiaries:The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and University of Virginia related foundations onlyPayout Rates:Consistent with, or lower than, the rates published by the American Council on Gift Annuities (ACGA) that are in effect at the time of the gift. Commuted payment ("tuition") gift annuity rates will be based on the ACGA assumptions and adjusted for the deferral.Timing of Annuity Payments:On the last day of each calendar quarter, March, June, September and DecemberDistribution to Beneficiaries:Distribute the remainder value of the annuity account at the end of the obligation.Contractor:University of Virginia Real Estate FoundationInvestment Management:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will appoint the Rector and Visitors as its agent for purposes of investment management.The primary investment objective is to comply with the state regulations governing gift annuity contracts. The secondary objective is to provide for the growth in assets held in the annuity account.

Unrestricted assets will generally be invested in the University's Growth & Income Fund. Restricted assets will be invested in the University's Bond Fund. Other investment vehicles are available as outlined in the University's guidelines for Trust Funds.Compliance:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will insure that it is in compliance with the regulations governing charitable gift annuities in each state.Administration:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will administer or contract for the administration of the gift annuity program.Fees:All reasonable investment management and administrative fees will be assessed to the gift annuity pool.

ATTACHMENT B GIFT ANNUITY POLICY FOR ANNUITANTS IN UNRESTRICTED STATES OTHER THAN VIRGINIAApproval of States:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation is responsible for the approval of states in which it will offer charitable gift annuities. New states should not be entered without the expectation that the program in that state will reach and maintain a $100,000 minimum level.Acceptable Forms:Current, deferred, and commuted ("tuition") payment charitable gift annuitiesFunding Minimum:Age (Years)Minimum60-69$20,00070-79$15,000> 80$10,000Minimum Age at First Payment:60 years; for commuted payment annuities, a maximum of 26 years to expected final payout to the UniversityIncome Beneficiaries:Up to two income beneficiariesCharitable Remainder Beneficiaries:The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and University of Virginia related foundations onlyPayout Rates:Consistent with, or lower than, the rates published by the American Council on Gift Annuities (ACGA) that are in effect at the time of the gift. Commuted payment ("tuition") gift annuity rates will be based on the ACGA assumptions and adjusted for the deferral.Timing of Annuity Payments:On the last day of each calendar quarter, March, June, September and DecemberDistribution to Beneficiaries:Distribute the remainder value of the annuity account at the end of the obligation.Contractor:University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation

Investment Management:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will appoint the Rector and Visitors as its agent for purposes of investment management.The primary investment objective is to comply with the state regulations governing gift annuity contracts. The secondary objective is to provide for the growth in assets held in the annuity account.Unrestricted assets will generally be invested in the University's Growth & Income Fund. Restricted assets will be invested in the University's Bond Fund. Other investment vehicles are available as outlined in the University's guidelines for Trust Funds.Compliance:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will insure that it is in compliance with the regulations governing charitable gift annuities in each state.Administration:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will administer or contract for the administration of the gift annuity program.Fees:All reasonable investment management and administrative fees will be assessed to the gift annuity pool.

ATTACHMENT C Gift Annuity Policy For Annuitants in Restricted StatesApproval of States:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation is responsible for the approval of states in which it will offer charitable gift annuities. New states should not be entered without the expectation that the program in that state will reach and maintain a $300,000 minimum level.Acceptable Forms:Current, deferred, and commuted ("tuition") payment charitable gift annuitiesFunding Minimum:Age (Years)Minimum60-69$65,00070-79$35,000> 80$15,000Minimum Age at First Payment:60 years; for commuted payment annuities, a maximum of 26 years to expected final payout to the University.Income Beneficiaries:Up to two income beneficiariesCharitable Remainder Beneficiaries:The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and University of Virginia related foundations onlyPayout Rates:Consistent with, or lower than, the rates published by the American Council on Gift Annuities (ACGA) that are in effect at the time of the gift. Deferred gift annuity and commuted payment ("tuition") gift annuity rates will be based on the ACGA assumptions, adjusted for the deferral.Timing of Annuity Payments:On the last day of each calendar quarter, March, June, September and DecemberDistribution to Beneficiaries:Distribute the remainder value of the annuity account at the end of the obligation.Contractor:University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation

Investment Management:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will appoint the Rector and Visitors as its agent for purposes of investment management.The primary investment objective is to comply with the state regulations governing gift annuity contracts. The secondary objective is to provide for the growth in assets held in the annuity account.Unrestricted assets will generally be invested in the University's Growth & Income Fund. Restricted assets will be invested in the University's Bond Fund. Other investment vehicles are available as outlined in the University's guidelines for Trust Funds.Compliance:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will insure that it is in compliance with the regulations governing charitable gift annuities in each state.Administration:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will administer or contract for the administration of the gift annuity program.Fees:All reasonable investment management and administrative fees will be assessed to the gift annuity pool.

ATTACHMENT D TRUST FUNDSFUND OUTLINETRUST FUNDSInvestment ObjectiveThe primary objective is to comply with the terms of the Trust Agreement with regard to specific income requirements. The secondary objective is to preserve and enhance the real (inflation-adjusted) purchasing power of the principal and to provide for growth in income.Investment PhilosophyInvestments will be made from a stable, long-term perspective with moderate turnover. Although investments for individual Trusts need not be fully diversified by asset class, diversification should be sufficient to meet fiduciary standards. Extreme positions or very opportunistic styles should be avoided.Where the trust document allows, charitable remainder unitrust and annuity trust assets will be invested according to the long-term endowment asset allocation target of 75 percent stocks and 25 percent bonds. Net income trust assets will be allocated between equities and bonds according to trust income requirements.Investment VehiclesThe following pooled funds may be used: Vanguard Group, Fidelity Investments, T. Rowe Price, Fiduciary Trust Company International, and University of Virginia Pooled Funds.Portfolios of individual common stocks may be created on rare occasions to meet specific requirements of the Agreement with the approval of the Executive Vice President and, at his discretion, the Investment Subcommittee of the Board of Visitors.

ATTACHMENT E DEFINED CONTRIBUTION RETIREMENT PLAN FOR THE GENERAL FACULTY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Amended and Restated January 1, 1996TABLE OF CONTENTSPREAMBLESECTION 1 DEFINITIONSSECTION 2 PARTICIPATIONSECTION 3 CONTRIBUTIONSSECTION 4 VESTINGSECTION 5 INVESTMENT OPTIONSSECTION 6 DISTRIBUTIONSSECTION 7 AMENDMENT AND TERMINATIONSECTION 8 CLAIMSSECTION 9 ADMINISTRATIONSECTION 10 TRUST AGREEMENTSECTION 11 MISCELLANEOUS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Page

PREAMBLE

1

SECTION 1

DEFINITIONS

2

1.1

Accumulation Account

2

1.2

Administrator

2

1.3

Board

2

1.4

Code

2

1.5

Compensation

2

1.6

Educational Leave of Absence

3

1.7

Eligible Employee

3

1.8

Employee

3

1.9

Employer

3

1.10

Former Participant

3

1.11

415 Compensation

4

1.12

Joint and Survivor Annuity

4

1.13

Leased Employee

5

1.14

Life Annuity

5

1.15

Limitation Year

5

1.16

Participant

5

1.17

Phased Retirement

5

1.18

Plan

5

1.19

Plan Year

5

1.20

Trust

5

1.21

Trustees

5

1.22

University

6

1.23

Valuation Date

6

1.24

VRS

6

SECTION 2

PARTICIPATION

6

2.1

Election to Participate

6

2.2

Obligation of Participant

7

2.3

Termination of Participation

7

2.4

Reinstatement as an Eligible Employee

7

SECTION 3

CONTRIBUTIONS

7

3.1

University Contribution

7

3.2

Transfer Contributions

8

3.3

Annual Limitation on Contributions

8

SECTION 4

VESTING

9

SECTION 5

INVESTMENT OPTIONS

10

5.1

Investment Options

10

5.2

Annuity Contract

10

5.3

Qualified Trust

10

5.4

Reallocation Among Annuity Contracts and the Trust

11

SECTION 6

DISTRIBUTIONS

11

6.1

Distributions of Amounts Allocated to Annuity Contracts

11

6.2

Distributions of Amounts Allocated to the Trust

12

SECTION 7

AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

16

7.1

Amendment

16

7.2

Termination, Partial Termination, or Complete Discontinuance of Contributions

16

7.3

Permissible Reversions

17

SECTION 8

CLAIMS

17

8.1

Claims for Benefits Under an Annuity Contract

17

8.2

Claims for Benefits Under the Trust

17

SECTION 9

ADMINISTRATION

18

9.1

Plan Administrator

18

9.2

Actions Conclusive

19

9.3

Appointment of Agents

19

9.4

Reliance on Opinions, Etc.

19

9.5

Records and Accounts

20

9.6

Payment of Expense

20

9.7

Liability

20

SECTION 10

TRUST AGREEMENT

21

10.1

The Trust Agreement

21

10.2

No Diversion of Corpus or Income

21

SECTION 11

MISCELLANEOUS

21

11.1

Limitation of Rights; Employment Relationship

21

11.2

Merger; Transfer of Assets

21

11.3

Prohibition Against Assignment

22

11.4

Applicable Law; Severability

22

11.5

Reliance Upon Copy of Plan

23

11.6

Gender and Number; Captions or Headings

23

TABLE OF CONTENTSPagePREAMBLE1SECTION 1DEFINITIONS21.1Accumulation Account21.2Administrator21.3Board21.4Code21.5Compensation21.6Educational Leave of Absence31.7Eligible Employee31.8Employee31.9Employer31.10Former Participant31.11415 Compensation41.12Joint and Survivor Annuity41.13Leased Employee51.14Life Annuity51.15Limitation Year51.16Participant51.17Phased Retirement51.18Plan51.19Plan Year51.20Trust51.21Trustees51.22University61.23Valuation Date61.24VRS6SECTION 2PARTICIPATION62.1Election to Participate62.2Obligation of Participant72.3Termination of Participation72.4Reinstatement as an Eligible Employee7

SECTION 3CONTRIBUTIONS73.1University Contribution73.2Transfer Contributions83.3Annual Limitation on Contributions8SECTION 4VESTING9SECTION 5INVESTMENT OPTIONS105.1Investment Options105.2Annuity Contract105.3Qualified Trust105.4Reallocation Among Annuity Contracts and the Trust11SECTION 6DISTRIBUTIONS116.1Distributions of Amounts Allocated to Annuity Contracts116.2Distributions of Amounts Allocated to the Trust12SECTION 7AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION167.1Amendment167.2Termination, Partial Termination, or Complete Discontinuance of Contributions167.3Permissible Reversions17SECTION 8CLAIMS178.1Claims for Benefits Under an Annuity Contract178.2Claims for Benefits Under the Trust17SECTION 9ADMINISTRATION189.1Plan Administrator189.2Actions Conclusive199.3Appointment of Agents199.4Reliance on Opinions, Etc.199.5Records and Accounts209.6Payment of Expense209.7Liability20

SECTION 10TRUST AGREEMENT2110.1The Trust Agreement2110.2No Diversion of Corpus or Income21SECTION 11MISCELLANEOUS2111.1Limitation of Rights; Employment Relationship2111.2Merger; Transfer of Assets2111.3Prohibition Against Assignment2211.4Applicable Law; Severability2211.5Reliance Upon Copy of Plan2311.6Gender and Number; Captions or Headings23

The University of Virginia (the "University") established the Defined Contribution Plan for the General Faculty of the University of Virginia (the "Plan") effective July 1, 1989. The Plan is a money purchase pension plan and was adopted to replace a defined contribution 403(b) plan that the University had provided General Faculty prior to July 1, 1989. The Plan was originally a 403(a) plan funded solely through annuity contracts. However, the Plan was amended and restated effective January 1, 1996 to add the Trust for the Defined Contribution Plan for the General Faculty of the University of Virginia (the "Trust") to provide an alternative form of funding Participants' benefits. Various other changes were made in 1996 including amending the employer contribution formula. As a result of the 1996 restatement, the Plan is currently a combination 403(a)/401(a) plan funded both by annuities and a tax exempt 501(a) trust.

1.1 Accumulation Account

The account of a Participant that is credited with Employer Contributions pursuant to Section 3.1 and transfer contributions.

1.2 Administrator

The University.

1.3 Board

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

1.4 Code

The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

1.5 Compensation

(a) Generally

"Compensation" is solely the base salary to be paid to the Participant during the Plan Year, i.e., the nine-month academic year salary for those Participants with academic year assignments or the twelve-month salary for those Participants with twelve-month assignments, and does not include any other form of compensation a Participant may receive during the Plan Year including, but not limited to, overtime, summer wages and special payments.

(b) Participants on Educational Leave of Absence

"Compensation" for a Participant who is on an Educational Leave of Absence shall be the Compensation described in (a) above when the Participant went out on leave.

(c) Participants in Phased Retirement

"Compensation" for a Participant who is in Phased Retirement shall be what the Compensation would have been under (a) above if the Participant were working full time as determined by the Administrator in its sole and absolute discretion.

(d) Limitation

In addition to other applicable limitations set forth in the Plan and notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, for Employees who become Participants in Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 1996, the annual compensation taken into account under the Plan shall not exceed the dollar limitation of Code section 401(a)(17), which is incorporated herein by reference, as adjusted from time to time.

1.6 Educational Leave of Absence

A leave of absence by a Participant that is determined by the University to have an "educational purpose" as that term is defined in the Faculty Handbook of the University.

1.7 Eligible Employee

An Employee who is a member of the General Faculty of the University, as that term is described in the Faculty Handbook of the University, except if the Employee is one of the following types of faculty members:

(a) a visiting faculty member, as that designation is determined by the University at the commencement of employment;

(b) a part-time faculty member, as that status may determined by the Employer from time to time; and

(c) a faculty member with an appointment of less than six (6) months.

1.8 Employee

Any individual on the payroll of the Employer whose wages from the Employer are subject to withholding for the purposes of Federal income taxes and the Federal Insurance Contributions Act and any Leased Employee of the Employer.

1.9 Employer

The University.

1.10 Former Participant

Any individual who is no longer a Participant but who continues to have an Accumulation Account.

1.11 415 Compensation

A Participant's wages, salaries, fees for professional service and other amounts of personal services actually rendered in the course of employment with an Employer maintaining the Plan (including, but not limited to, sales commissions, compensation for services on the basis of a percentage of profits, commissions on insurance premiums, tips and bonuses and in the case of a Participant who is an Employee within the meaning of Code Section 401(c)(1) and the regulations thereunder, the Participant's earned income (as described in Code Section 401(c)(2) and the regulations thereunder)) paid or accrued during the Limitation Year. It shall exclude: (1)(A) contributions made by the Employer to a plan of deferred compensation sponsored by the Employer to the extent that, before the application of the Code Section 415 limitations to the Plan, the contributions are not includable in the gross income of the Employee for the taxable year in which contributed, (B) Employer contributions made on behalf of an Employee to a simplified employee pension plan described in Code Section 408(k) to the extent such contributions are deductible by the Employee under Code Section 219(a), (C) any distributions from a plan of deferred compensation sponsored by the Employer regardless of whether such amounts are includable in the gross income of the Employee when distributed except any amounts received by an Employee pursuant to an unfunded non-qualified plan of the Employee's Employer to the extent such amounts are includable in the gross income of the Employee; (2) amounts realized from the exercise of a non-qualified stock option or when restricted stock (or property) held by an Employee either becomes freely transferrable or is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture; (3) amounts realized from the sale, exchange or other disposition of stock acquired under a qualified stock option; and (4) other amounts which receive special tax benefits, such as premiums for group term life insurance (but only to the extent that the premiums are not includable in the gross income of the Employee). Notwithstanding the foregoing, commencing on January 1, 1998, the exclusion described in (1)(A) above shall no longer apply nor shall contributions under a Code Section 125 plan be excluded.

1.12 Joint and Survivor Annuity

An immediate monthly annuity for the life of the Participant with a survivor annuity for the life of the Participant's designated beneficiary that is not less than 50% and not more than 100% of the amount of the annuity that is payable during the joint lives of the Participant and the designated beneficiary. The percentages of the survivor annuity under the Plan shall be 50%, 75%, and 100%. The annuity shall be equal to the amount of benefit that can be purchased with the portion of the Participant's Accumulation Account that has been allocated to the Trust. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any amount to be distributed each year, and the times those amounts are paid, must satisfy the incidental death benefit requirements specified in Code Section 401(a)(9)(G) and the regulations thereunder.

1.13 Leased Employee

Any individual who is a leased employee within the meaning of Code Section 414(n)(2). Such individuals shall not be permitted to participate in the Plan.

1.14 Life Annuity

An immediate monthly annuity solely for the life of the recipient. The annuity shall be equal to the amount of benefit that can be purchased with the portion of the Participant's Accumulation Account that has been allocated to the Trust.

1.15 Limitation Year

The Plan Year.

1.16 Participant

Any Employee who has commenced participation in the Plan in accordance with the provisions of Section 2 of the Plan.

1.17 Phased Retirement

The Phased Retirement Option of the University's Incentive Retirement Program.

1.18 Plan

The Defined Contribution Retirement Plan for the General Faculty of the University of Virginia as set forth in this document and as amended from time to time.

1.19 Plan Year

The twelve (12) month period commencing each January 1.

1.20 Trust

The Trust for the Defined Contribution Retirement Plan for the General Faculty of the University of Virginia, created by the Trust Agreement entered into pursuant to Section 10 between the University and the Trustees.

1.21 Trustees

The persons and/or bank or trust company which are named as Trustees in the Trust Agreement described in Section 10.1.

1.22 University

The University of Virginia.

1.23 Valuation Date

The date during the Plan Year the portion of the assets of a Participant's or Former Participant's Accumulation Account allocated to the Trust is valued. Such dates shall be March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each Plan Year and any other day the Administrator, in its sole and absolute discretion, has determined it is feasible to determine the value.

1.24 VRS

The Virginia Retirement System.

2.1 Election to Participate

(a) New Employees

In the case of an Employee who is not a participant in the VRS at the time he or she becomes an Eligible Employee, such person shall choose within ninety (90) days of becoming an Eligible Employee to participate in either the Plan or the VRS. The Employee shall make the choice by completing the corresponding application of the retirement program in which he or she elects to participate. If an Eligible Employee fails to choose a plan, pursuant to the policy of the Commonwealth he or she shall be required to participate in the VRS and be ever precluded from participating in the Plan. An Eligible Employee who elects to participate in the Plan shall become a Participant in the Plan as of the first day of the month on or immediately following the day of becoming an Eligible Employee.

(b) Current Employees Who Become Members of the General Faculty

In the case of an Employee who is a participant in the VRS at the time he or she becomes an Eligible Employee, such person may make an irrevocable election to participate in the Plan any time on or after becoming an Eligible Employee by completing the Plan application form prescribed by the Administrator. Such Employee shall become a Participant in the Plan on the first day of the month on or immediately following the date of receipt by the Administrator of such election.

2.2 Obligation of Participant

When an Employee becomes eligible to participate, and thereafter from time to time, the Administrator may require the Employee to furnish such information and fill out, sign and file such forms and documents as may be reasonably required for the administration of the Plan, including beneficiary designation forms, evidence of age and marital status, etc. If a Participant does not comply with any such reasonable requirements neither the Administrator, the Trustees, nor any other person, shall be obligated to administer the Plan for such Participant until such information is properly furnished, and no such person shall incur liability to such Participant or his or her beneficiary to the extent that any intended Plan benefit has not been obtained or is not available because of the Participant's or beneficiary's failure to furnish such information and fill out, sign and file such documents.

2.3 Termination of Participation

Participation in the Plan continues until a Participant is no longer an Eligible Employee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Participant of the Plan on December 31, 1995 who might not otherwise meet the definition of Eligible Employee shall continue to participate in the Plan until employment with the University terminates.

2.4 Reinstatement as an Eligible Employee

A former Eligible Employee who subsequently becomes an Eligible Employee again shall have the right to elect to participate in the Plan as described in Section 2.1 above.

3.1 University Contribution

(a) Participants Who Commenced Participation Before January 1, 1991

In the case of a Participant who commenced participation in the Plan before January 1, 1991 and who has had uninterrupted participation since, the University shall contribute to such Participant's Accumulation Account for the Plan Year an amount equal to the greater of:

(I) 10.4% of Compensation, or

(II) 11.5% of Compensation with a maximum of $100,000 taken into consideration when calculating the contribution herein.

(b) Participants Who Commenced Participation On or After January 1, 1991

In the case of a Participant who commenced participation in the Plan on or after January 1, 1991, the University shall contribute to such Participant's Accumulation Account for the Plan Year an amount equal to 10.4% of Compensation.

(c) Participants on Educational Leaves of Absence

The University shall continue to make a contribution under this Section 3.1 on behalf of a Participant who is on an Educational Leave of Absence subject to the limitation described in Section 3.3.

(d) Timing of Contributions

Timing of the contributions described in (a) - (c) above shall be determined by the Administrator in its sole and absolute discretion.

3.2 Transfer Contributions

The Plan shall receive only transfers of accrued benefits from the VRS on behalf of a Participant. It shall accept no other transfers or rollovers of any kind.

The Administrator shall allocate the transferred amounts described in the preceding paragraph among the various investment vehicles permitted under the Plan pursuant to Section 5. The Participant shall provide such instructions in writing on a form prescribed by the Administrator.

3.3 Annual Limitation on Contributions

(a) Defined Contribution Limit

In no event shall a Participant's University contribution under Section 3.1 above for any Limitation Year exceed the lesser of:

(I) $30,000, as adjusted under Code Section 415(c)(1)(A); or

(II) twenty-five percent (25%) of the Participant's 415 Compensation.

For Participants who are on an Educational Leave of Absence or in Phased Retirement, to the extent the Administrator prevents the University from making a contribution on behalf of such a Participant under Section 3.1 that would cause the limit under this Section 3.3(a) to be exceeded for the Participant, such uncontributed amount shall be added to the contributions described in Section 3.1 for the Participant in future Plan Years not to exceed the limit described herein in any one of those future Plan Years.

(b) Participation In More Than One Plan

If the University maintains another qualified defined contribution plan, as defined in Code Section 414(i), for Employees, some or all of whom may be Participants in this Plan, then any such Participant's Annual Additions in the other Plan shall be aggregated with the Participant's Annual Additions derived from this Plan for purposes of the limitation in Section 3.3(a) above.

(c) Reallocating Excess Contributions

If the limitation in Section 3.3(a) is exceeded, the excess amounts in the Participant's Accumulation Account shall be used to reduce the University's contribution for the next Limitation Year (and succeeding Limitation Years, as necessary) for that Participant. However, if that Participant is not covered by the Plan as of the end of a Limitation Year, then the excess amounts must be held unallocated in a suspense account for the Limitation Year and allocated and reallocated in the next Limitation Year to all of the remaining Participants in the Plan in proportion to what each Participant's Compensation for the Plan Year bears to the Compensation for all such Participants for the Plan Year. In no case may excess amounts be distributed to Participants or Former Participants.

(d) No Exceeding 415 Limit

In no event shall the amount of any benefit or annuity determined under this Plan Section 3 exceed the maximum benefit permitted under Code Section 415.

A Participant shall be fully vested in his or her Accumulation Account at all times under the Plan.

5.1 Investment Options

The Participant shall have the option to allocate the University's contribution made pursuant to Section 3.1 between the following forms of investment:

(a) an annuity contract that meets the requirements of Code Section 403(a), or

(b) a qualified trust as described in Code Section 401(a).

When first applying to become a Participant in the Plan, as described in Section 2.1, the Eligible Employee shall also designate on the Plan application form prescribed by the Administrator whether Plan contributions should be invested in an annuity contract or the Trust. A Participant may then change the investment allocation annually during the Plan's open enrollment period which is a 30-day period designated by the Administrator prior to the beginning of the Plan Year and which takes place no earlier than ninety days prior to the beginning of the Plan Year.

5.2 Annuity Contract

The University may offer one or more annuity contracts described in Section 5.1(a) above among which a Participant may choose to allocate contributions made to his or her Accumulation Account. The nature and the quality of the investments offered under each of these contracts shall be determined by the Administrator. To the extent a Participant may choose among various investments offered under an annuity contract, any communication regarding such investment shall be between the sponsor of the annuity contract and the Participant. Once a Participant chooses an annuity contract to which to allocate Plan contributions, the University shall have no further responsibility regarding such contributions.

5.3 Qualified Trust

(a) Investment Funds

The Plan shall offer Participants investment funds to which the Participants may choose to allocate Plan contributions that the Participant has designated are to be allocated to the Trust pursuant to Section 5.1(b) above. The nature and the quality of the investments in each of these funds shall be determined by the Administrator.

(b) Designation of Investment Funds

Each Participant shall designate on a written form prescribed or approved by the Administrator one or more of the investment funds described in (a) above. Accounts for which no direction is received shall be invested in the investment fund which provides a balance between capital appreciation and preservation of capital and generation of income.

(c) Changing Investment Designation

A Participant may change the designation described in (b) above any number of times permitted by the Administrator and by any method permitted by the Administrator.

(d) Investment Performance

(I) Crediting Income and Losses

Income or losses from the investments in each investment fund above shall correspondingly increase or decrease the same investment fund.

(II) Adjustment of Accounts

The Administrator shall adjust, as of each Valuation Date, the respective portions of the Participant's Accumulation Account balance allocated to the Trust to reflect the current market value of the investment funds in which such Account was invested.

5.4 Reallocation Among Annuity Contracts and the Trust

A Participant may reallocate all or a portion of his or her Accumulation Account invested in annuity contracts to the Trust, or vice versa, to the extent permitted, if at all, by the sponsor of the annuity and the Administrator.

6.1 Distributions of Amounts Allocated to Annuity Contracts

Distribution of the portion of a Participant's Accumulation Account allocated to annuity contracts shall be distributed in accordance with the terms of the applicable annuity contract.

6.2 Distributions of Amounts Allocated to the Trust

Distribution of the portion of a Participant's Accumulation Account allocated to the Trust shall be distributed in the following manner:

(a) Election to Receive Benefits

A Participant who separates from service from the University may elect to receive his or her benefits any time on or after the day he or she separates from service. Such distribution shall be made on the later of 60 days from the receipt of request for such distribution or the date the Administrator determines the value of the Participant's Accumulation Account for purposes of distribution. The amount to be distributed shall be determined based on the value of the portion of the Former Participant's Accumulation Account balance allocated to the Trust as determined on the last day of the month in which the request for distribution was received by the Administrator. Such request shall be made on a written form prescribed or approved by the Administrator.

A Participant in Phased Retirement who is age 59 1/2 or older may elect to receive a distribution from the Plan as described in the preceding paragraph even if still an Employee.

(b) Forms of Distribution

A Participant may elect to receive a distribution of the portion of his or her Accumulation Account allocated to the Trust in one of the following forms:

(I) lump sum,

(II) Joint and Survivor Annuity, or

(III) Life Annuity.

(c) Mandatory Distribution Date

(I) Required Beginning Date

In no event shall distributions commence later than April 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Participant attains age seventy-and-one-half (70 1/2) except if the Participant is an Employee in the calendar year he or she attains age 70 1/2, in which case the distribution may commence April 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Employee retires.

(II) Failure to Make an Election Under Section 6.2(a)

If a Participant fails to make an election under Section 6.2(a) above before the date described in (I) above, the Administrator shall direct the Trustee to distribute the portion of Participant's Accumulation Account allocated to the Trust in a lump sum in accordance with (I) above.

(d) Pre-Distribution Death Benefits

(I) Election of Form of Distribution by Designated Beneficiary

If a Participant dies prior to having commenced distribution of benefits under Section 6.2(a) the designated beneficiary may elect to receive the portion of the Participant's Accumulation Account allocated to the Trust either in a lump sum or a Life Annuity to paid over the life of the designated beneficiary. Such request shall be made within six months of the Participant's death on a written form prescribed or approved by the Administrator. Distribution shall be made on the later of sixty (60) days from the receipt of request for such distribution or the date the Administrator determines the value of the Participant's Accumulation Account for purposes of distribution. The amount to be distributed shall be determined based on the value of the portion of the Former Participant's Accumulation Account balance allocated to the Trust as determined on the last day of the month in which the request for distribution was received by the Administrator.

(II) Failure of Designated Beneficiary to Elect a Form of Distribution

If a designated beneficiary fails to elect a form of distribution within six months immediately following the Participant's death, the Administrator shall have the Participant's Accumulation Account allocated to the Trust distributed in a lump sum. Distribution shall be made on the later of sixty (60) days from the last day of the sixth month immediately following the month in which the Participant died or the date the Administrator determines the value of the Participant's Accumulation Account for purposes of distribution. The amount to be distributed shall be determined based on the value of the portion of the Former Participant's Accumulation Account balance allocated to the Trust as determined on the last day of the sixth month immediately following the month in which the Participant died.

(III) Absence of Valid Designation of Beneficiaries

If a Participant has no valid beneficiary designation on file with the Administrator, or the beneficiary has predeceased the Participant, the Administrator shall designate as the beneficiary, in the following order of priority: surviving spouse; surviving children, including adopted children, in equal shares; surviving parents, in equal shares; or the Participant's estate. The Administrator's determination of this matter shall be binding. The beneficiary(ies) determined by the Administrator in accordance with this paragraph shall be treated as the designated beneficiary(ies) for purpose of (I) and (II) above.

(IV) Surviving Spouse Dies Prior to Receiving Benefits as Described in (I) and (II) Above

If the surviving spouse dies after the Participant, but before payments to such spouse begin, the provisions of (I) and (II) above shall be applied as if the surviving spouse were the Participant.

(IV) Children as Beneficiaries

For purposes of this Section 6.1(d), any amount paid to a child of the Participant will be treated as if it had been paid to the surviving spouse if the amount becomes payable to the surviving spouse when the child reaches the age of majority.

(e) Incompetence of Distributee

If the Administrator receives evidence that a person entitled to receive any distribution under the Plan is physically or mentally incompetent or incompetent by any reason of age to receive such distribution and give valid release therefore, the Administrator shall direct the Trustee to make such distribution to the Participant's legal representative (such as a guardian) provided the Administrator, in its sole and absolute discretion, determines that such individual has the authority as legal representative to request payment from the Plan. Any such payment made under this Section 6.2(e) shall constitute a complete discharge of any liability under the Plan.

(f) Location of Participant or Beneficiary Unknown

In the event that all, or any portion, of the distribution payable to a Participant or his or her beneficiary under this Section 6.2 remains unpaid solely by reason of the inability of the Administrator to ascertain the whereabouts of such Participant or beneficiary after sending a registered letter, return receipt required, to the last known address, and further diligent effort, a savings account at a local financial institution shall be established in the person's name and the distribution shall be deposited therein.

(g) Direct Rollover

(I) General

Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary that would otherwise limit a distributee's election under this Section 6.2(g), a distributee may elect, at the time and in the manner prescribed by the Administrator, to have any portion of an eligible rollover distribution paid directly to an eligible retirement plan specified by the distributee in a direct rollover.

(II) Definitions

(A) Eligible Rollover Distributions

An eligible rollover distribution is any distribution of all or any portion of the balance to the credit of the distributee, except that an eligible rollover distribution does not include: any distribution that is one of a series of substantially equal periodic payments (not less frequently than annually) made for the life (or life expectancy) of the distributee or the joint lives (or joint life expectancies) of the distributee and the distributee's designated beneficiary, or for a specified period of ten (10) years or more; any distribution to the extent such distribution is required under Code Section 401(a)(9); and the portion of any distribution that is not includable in gross income (determined without regard to the exclusion for net unrealized appreciation with respect to employer securities).

(B) Eligible Retirement Plan

An eligible retirement plan is an individual retirement account described in Code Section 408(a), an individual retirement annuity described in Code Section 408(b), an annuity plan described in Code Section 403(a), or a qualified trust described in Code Section 401(a), that accepts the distributee's eligible rollover distribution. However, in the case of an eligible rollover distribution to the surviving spouse, an eligible retirement plan is an individual retirement account or individual retirement annuity.

(C) Distributee

A distributee includes an Employee or former Employee. In addition, the Employee's or former Employee's surviving spouse and the Employee's or former Employee's spouse or former spouse who is the alternate payee under a qualified domestic relations order, as defined in Code Section 414(p), are distributees with regard to the interest of the spouse or former spouse.

(D) Direct Rollover

A direct rollover is a payment by the Plan to the eligible retirement plan specified by the distributee.

7.1 Amendment

The University reserves the right to amend the Plan, through affirmative action by the Board at any time and from time to time, in whole or in part, including, without limitation, retroactive amendments necessary or advisable to qualify the Plan and Trust under the provisions of Code Sections 401(a) and 403(a). However, except as set forth in Section 7.3, no such amendment shall (1) cause any part of the assets of the Plan and Trust to revert to or be recoverable by the University or be used for or diverted to purposes other than the exclusive benefit of Participants, Former Participants, and beneficiaries; (2) deprive any Participant, Former Participant, or beneficiary of any benefit already vested; (3) alter, change, or modify the duties, powers, or liabilities of the Trustee without its written consent; or (4) permit any part of the assets of the Plan and the Trust to be used to pay premiums or contributions of the University under any other plan maintained by the University for the benefit of its Employees. No amendment to the vesting schedule shall deprive a Participant of unforfeitable rights to benefits accrued to the date of the amendment.

7.2 Termination, Partial Termination, or Complete Discontinuance of Contributions

Although the University has established the Plan with the intention and expectation that it will make contributions indefinitely, nevertheless the University shall not be under any obligation or liability to continue its contributions or to maintain the Plan for any given length of time. The University may in its sole and absolute discretion through an affirmative action by its Board discontinue contributions or terminate the Plan in whole or in part in accordance with its provisions at any time without any liability for the discontinuance or termination. However, the Trust shall continue until the portions of Participants' Accumulation Accounts that have been allocated to the Trust have been completely distributed to or for the benefit of such Participants in accordance with the Plan.

7.3 Permissible Reversions

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan:

(I) No Participant nor beneficiary shall have any right or claim to any assets of the Trust or to any benefit under the Plan before the Internal Revenue Service determines that the Plan and Trust qualify under the provisions of Code Section 401(a), or any statute of similar import, other than any vested rights or benefits accrued represented by any assets transferred from the VRS, to the extent vested upon transfer to this Plan and Trust from the VRS. Upon the distribution to the Participants of any vested amounts or benefits transferred from the VRS and the return of any remaining contributions to the University following the denial of initial qualification of the Plan and Trust under the provisions of Code Section 401(a), the Trust provided for in this Plan shall be terminated and the Trustees shall be discharged from all obligations hereunder.

(II) To the extent the University's contributions are made by reason of a mistake of fact, they may be returned to the University within one (1) year from the date of contribution.

(b) The amounts that may be returned to the University under Section 7.3(a)(II) above shall be the excess of the amounts contributed over the amounts that would have been contributed had there not been a mistake of fact. No earnings on the mistaken contributions may be returned to the University and losses sustained by the Trust after the date of contribution shall proportionately reduce the amount that may be returned to the University.

8.1 Claims for Benefits Under an Annuity Contract

A Participant's (or beneficiary's) claim for benefits for the portion of the Participant's Accumulation Account allocated to an annuity contract shall be resolved by the sponsor of the annuity contract based on procedures it has established.

8.2 Claims for Benefits Under the Trust

A Participant's (or beneficiary's) claim for benefits for the portion of the Participant's Accumulation Account invested in the Trust may be presented in writing by the Participant to the Administrator.

If the claim for benefits is wholly or partially denied, the Administrator shall notify the Participant (or beneficiary) in writing of such denial of benefits within sixty (60) days of receipt of the claim.

Any notice of a denial of benefits shall advise the Participant (or beneficiary) of:

(a) the specific reason or reasons for the denial;

(b) the specific provisions of the Plan on which the denial is based;

(c) any additional material or information necessary for the Participant (or beneficiary) to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary; and

(d) the steps which the Participant (or beneficiary) must take to have the claim reviewed.

A Participant (or beneficiary) whose claim has been denied may file a written request for a review by the Administrator of the denial of this claim. Such written request for review must be filed within sixty (60) days after receipt of written notification of the denial of this claim. The Administrator shall review the written comments and any submissions of the Participant (or beneficiary) and render its decision regarding the appeal within sixty (60) days of receipt of such appeal. Such decision shall be in writing setting forth the specific reasons and specific Plan provisions on which the Administrator based its decision.

9.1 Plan Administrator

The Administrator shall administer the Plan. The General Counsel of the University is designated as the agent of the Plan for the service of legal process.

The Administrator's duties shall include, without limitation, powers with respect to the administration of the Trust as may be conferred upon it by the Trust. It shall have the power to take all action and to make all decisions that shall be necessary or proper in order to carry out the provisions of the Plan and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it shall have the following powers:

(a) to make (and enforce by suspension or forfeiture) such rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary or proper for the efficient administration of the Plan;

(b) to interpret or construe the Plan;

(c) to decide questions concerning the Plan and the eligibility of any Employee to participate therein and the right of any person to receive benefits thereunder;

(d) to decide any dispute arising under the Plan;

(e) to compute the amount of benefits which shall be payable to any person in accordance with the provisions of the Plan;

(f) to authorize all disbursements by the Trustees;

(g) to prescribe and require the use of such forms as it shall deem necessary or desirable in connection with the administration of the Plan;

(h) to supply any omissions in the Plan;

(i) to reconcile and correct any errors or inconsistencies in the Plan; and

(j) to make equitable adjustments for any mistakes or errors made in the administration of the Plan.

The Administrator shall establish rules and regulations and shall take other necessary or proper action to carry out its duties and responsibilities.

9.2 Actions Conclusive

All actions and decisions taken by the Administrator shall be final and conclusive and binding on all persons having any interest in the Plan or Trust or in any benefits payable thereunder.

9.3 Appointment of Agents

The Administrator may employ or engage such accountants, counsel, other experts, and other persons as it deems necessary in connection with the administration of the Plan to the extent permitted by law.

9.4 Reliance on Opinions, Etc.

The Administrator and each member thereof and each person to whom it may delegate any power or duty in connection with administering the Plan shall be entitled to rely conclusively upon, and shall be fully protected in any action taken by them or any of them in good faith reliance upon any valuation, certificate, opinion, or report which shall be furnished to them or any of them by the Trustees or by any accountant, counsel, other expert, or other person who shall be employed or engaged by the Trustees or the Administrator.

9.5 Records and Accounts

The Administrator shall keep or cause to be kept all data, records and documents pertaining to the administration of the Plan, and shall execute all documents necessary to carry out the provisions of the Plan. The Administrator shall advise the Trustees of such facts as may be pertinent to the Trustees' administration of the Trust and shall give proper instruction to the Trustees for carrying out the purposes of the Plan.

9.6 Payment of Expense

(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) below, expenses in connection with the administration of the Plan and Trust including commissions, taxes, and expenses of the Trustees and of any accountant or other person who shall be employed by the Administrator or Trustees in the administration thereof, shall be paid by the Trust unless paid by the University.

(b) In the event of permanent discontinuance of contributions or termination any further payment of expenses which arise or have arisen in connection with the administration of the Plan and Trust shall be paid by the Trust unless paid by the University.

9.7 Liability

The Administrator shall incur no liability for any action taken or not taken in good faith reliance on advice of counsel, who may be counsel for the University or taken or not taken in good faith reliance on a determination as to a matter of fact which has been represented or certified by a person reasonably believed to have knowledge of the fact so represented or certified, or taken or not taken in good faith reliance on a recommendation or opinion expressed by a person reasonably believed to be qualified or expert as to any matter where it is reasonable or customary to seek or rely on such recommendations or opinions. Nor shall any employee of the Administrator be liable for the wrongful or negligent conduct of any other or any person having fiduciary responsibilities with respect to the Plan unless the employee (I) knowingly participates in or undertakes to conceal an act or omission of such other person knowing the act or omission is a breach of fiduciary duty, (ii) by failing to act solely in the interests of Participants and beneficiaries or to exercise the care, skill, prudence and diligence under the circumstances prevailing from time to time that a prudent man acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters would exercise, has enabled the other fiduciary to commit a breach, or (iii) has knowledge of a breach by the other fiduciary and does not make reasonable efforts under the circumstances to remedy it. The University shall jointly and severally indemnify any employee and hold them harmless from loss, liability and expense in respect of the Plan, including the legal cost of defending claims and amounts paid in satisfaction or settlement thereof provided only that no indemnification is intended that would be void as against public policy.

10.1 The Trust Agreement

"Trust Agreement" means the "Trust for the Defined Contribution Retirement Plan for the General Faculty of the University of Virginia." The Trustees are to hold, invest, and distribute the Trust Fund in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Trust Agreement. The duties and rights of the Trustees shall be determined solely by reference to the Trust Agreement.

10.2 No Diversion of Corpus or Income

In no event shall any portion of the corpus or income of the Trust Fund be used for or diverted to purposes other than the exclusive benefit of Participants and their beneficiaries.

11.1 Limitation of Rights; Employment Relationship

Neither the establishment of the Plan and the Trust nor any modifications of them, nor the creation of any fund or account, nor the payment of any benefits, shall be construed as modifying or affecting in any way the terms of employment of any Employee.

11.2 Merger; Transfer of Assets

(a) If the University merges or consolidates with or into another entity, or if substantially all the assets of the University are transferred to another entity, the Plan shall terminate on the effective date of the merger, consolidation, or transfer. However, if the surviving entity resulting from the merger or consolidation, or the entity to which the assets have been transferred, adopts this Plan, the Plan shall continue and the successor entity shall succeed to all rights, powers, and duties of the University under the Plan, and the employment of any Employee who is continued in the successor entity's employ shall not be deemed to have been terminated for any purpose under the Plan.

(b) This Plan shall not be merged or consolidated with any other employee benefit plan, nor shall there by any transfer of assets or liabilities from this Plan to any other plan, unless, immediately after the merger, consolidation, or transfer, each Participant's benefits, if the other plan were then to terminate, are at least equal to the benefits to which the Participant would have been entitled had this Plan been terminated immediately before the merger, consolidation, or transfer.

11.3 Prohibition Against Assignment

(a) Except as provided below, the benefits provided by this Plan may not be assigned or alienated. Neither the University nor the Trustees shall recognize any transfer, mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, order, or assignment by any Participant or beneficiary of all or part of his or her interest under the Plan, and the interest shall not be subject in any manner to transfer by operation of law and shall be exempt from the claims of creditors or other claimants from all orders, decrees, levies, garnishment, and/or executions, and other legal or equitable process or proceedings against the Participant or beneficiary to the fullest extent that may be permitted by law.

(b) This provision shall not apply to the extent a Participant or beneficiary is indebted to the Plan, for any reason, under any provision of this Agreement. At the time a distribution is to be made to or for a Participant's or beneficiary's benefit, such proportion of the amount distributed as shall equal such indebtedness, shall be paid by the Trustees to the Trustees or the Administrator, at the direction of the Administrator, to apply against or discharge such indebtedness. Prior to making a payment, however, the Participant or beneficiary must be given written notice by the Administrator that such indebtedness is to be so paid in whole or in part from his account. If the Participant or beneficiary does not agree that the indebtedness is a valid claim against his vested Accounts, he shall be entitled to a review of the validity of the claim in accordance with procedures provided in Section 8.

(c) This provision shall not apply to a "qualified domestic relations order" defined in Code Section 414(p), and those other domestic relations orders permitted to be so treated by the Administrator under the Code. To the extent provided under a "qualified domestic relations order," a former spouse of a Participant shall be treated as the spouse or surviving spouse for all purposes under the Plan.

11.4 Applicable Law; Severability

This Plan shall be construed, administered, and governed in all respects in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, provided, however, that if any provision is susceptible to more than one interpretation, it shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with the Plan's being a qualified plan within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code. If any provision of this instrument shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of the Plan shall continue to be fully effective.

11.5 Reliance Upon Copy of Plan

Any person dealing with the Trustees may rely upon copies of the Plan and the Trust Agreement, and any amendments thereto, certified by the Administrator to be true and correct copies.

11.6 Gender and Number; Captions or Headings

Wherever appropriate to the meaning or interpretation of this Plan, the masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa. Captions or headings are inserted and intended for organizational format and convenience of reference only; they are not to be given independent substantive meaning or effect.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being an authorized officer of the University, has caused this Plan as restated and amended to be executed this\_\_\_day of\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_\_.

Witnesses: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ By:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \[name\]

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA LAG PAY RALLY NOVEMBER 8, 19 ROTUNDA STEPS ATTACHMENT F
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

\> WHY MUST "LAG PAY" IMPLEMENTED? MORE CONVENT FOR THE ADMINISTRATION

\> WHAT IS THE JUSTIFICATION FOR "LAG PAY"? SAVE THE COMMONWEALTH MONEY BY NOT HAVING TO RE-ISSUE A FEW CHECKS

BOTTOM LINE:

\> NO ONE HAS STATED HOW MUCH THOSE SAVINGS TO THE COMMONWEALTH WILL COMPARED TO WHAT ACE STATE EMPLOYEE MUST PAY IN LATE & RE-TIMANCE CHARGES FOR PRIOR DEBITS.

\> STATE EMPLOYEES ARE ONCE AGAIN BEING USED AS POLITICAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FAWNS.

\> IT IS ABOUT TIME THAT SOMEONE LOOKS OUT FOR STATE EMPLOYEES' INTERESTS.

We, therefore propose to the Rector, the President and the Executive Vice President of the University the following:

1) An "Advisory" to the Board of Visitors, the President and the Chief Financial Officer, i.e., Classified Staff Senate. Not unlike that of Virginia Tech which will meet with the Board with the same powers as bestowed on the Faculty Senate of UVa.

2) The Board of Visitors, the President and the Chief Financial Officer MUST inform the 'Advisory'/Classified Staff Senate of ALL legislative matters involving the work force on a weekly basis during the General Assembly session' and thereafter, on a monthly basis.

3) Included in the upcoming legislative agenda UVa will ask for a REPEAL of 'lag pay'.

4) If 'lag pay' goes forward then UVa MUST honor the previous established interest free loan program and financial arrangement with the UVa Credit Union at NO financial cost to UVa employees.

5) Inform us of the your decision to aforementioned at the conclusion of this board meeting.

FINALLY, 'LAG PAY' IS NOT ACCEPTABLE and MUST BY REPEALED.

Joyce Broaden Registrar's Office - Carruthers Hall 924-4507 fax 924-4156 virginia. edu

Kevin Cox Biochemistry Department 924-2370 fax 924-5069 kpc4pvirginia. edu
