---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2000'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 2, 2000

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2008

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OCTOBER 2, 2000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia conducted a meeting by telephone on Monday, October 2, 2000; John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, presided. The meeting, which began at 9:05 a.m., was in Open Session and members of the public were invited to listen to the proceedings by speakerphone, which was set up in the Board office at the Rotunda.

The Rector, Mr. Crutchfield and Mr. Phelan were present in Madison Hall for the meeting; Mr. Goodwin and Mr. Wheat were in Mr. Goodwin's office in Richmond.

Mr. Bliley, Dr. Caravati, Mr. Glazer, Mr. Greer, Mrs. Holland, Mr. Robertson, Mr. Ross, Ms. Twohy, Mr. Walker and Mr. Wolfe participated on their own telephones.

Mr. Casteen, Mr. Sandridge, Mr. Gilliam, Ms. Sheehy, Mr. Forch and Ms. Bailes also were participants.

The Rector asked Mr. Sandridge to present the Agenda.

Mr. Sandridge explained that the University's proposed amendments to the state budget are due in Richmond on October 4th, the day before the beginning of the scheduled meeting of the Board of Visitors on October 5th and 6th. As the Board had expressed its desire to approve the amendments — and the University did not receive guidelines from the state on amendments until August 16th — before they are sent to Richmond, the telephonic meeting was called.

Referring to material which had been sent to the Board before the meeting, Mr. Sandridge gave a quick overview of the proposed amendments. (The amendments are appended to these Minutes as an attachment.)

Mr. Bliley moved that the amendments be approved; Mr. Crutchfield seconded the motion. The Secretary established by roll call vote that all participating Members approved the resolution.

APPROVAL OF 2001 OPERATING AND CAPITAL BUDGET AMENDMENTS FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION, MEDICAL CENTER, AND COLLEGE AT WISE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the 2001 operating and capital budget amendments have been carefully reviewed; and

WHEREAS, the amendments represent the highest priority initiatives for the University and the College at Wise; and

WHEREAS, the request is aligned with the mission of the institutions and with their respective strategic plans;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia endorses and supports the budget amendment requests; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors understands that to the extent these initiatives are not included in the Governor's amendments to the 2000-02 biennial budget that the University and the College at Wise may want to pursue similar requests to the legislature; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to transmit the amendment requests to the Governor and later to the General Assembly as long as there are no material differences from the items already endorsed by the Board of Visitors.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 9:15 a.m.

AGG:lahAttachment

ATTACHMENT AGENCY 207 — Academic DivisionOperating Budget AmendmentsCapital Budget Amendments
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AGENCY 209 — Medical CenterOperating Budget AmendmentsCapital Budget Amendments
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AGENCY 246 — University's College at WiseOperating Budget AmendmentsCapital Budget Amendments
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
