---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2002'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 30, 2002

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2008

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS MAY 30-JUNE 1, 2002
----------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Election of the Executive Committee

6190

Resolution to Approve Additional Action Items

6191

Approval of Architectural Design Guidelines for the South Lawn Project

6194

Approval of Architectural Design Guidelines for the New Arena

6194

Approval of Architectural Design Guidelines for the Campbell Hall Addition Project

6194

Approval to Remove Four Buildings at the Davis Farm — Vivarium Complex on Routh 20 South

6194

Approval of Intent to Issue Bonds for the Arts & Sciences Building, the Aquatic & Fitness Center, the Emmet Street Parking Structure and the Cancer Center Renovation Project

6195

Conflict of Interest Exemption (Adenosine Therapeutics LLC)

6197

Approval of Miller Center Council Members

6198

Approval of Schematic Design for the New Arena

6198

Approval of Preliminary Design for the Materials Science Engineering and Nanotechnology Building

6198

Approval of Schematic and Preliminary Design, Hospital Expansion Project

6198

Approval of the 2002-2003 Operating Budget for the Academic Division

6198

Approval of the 2002-2003 Operating Budget for the University of Virginia's College at Wise

6199

PAGE

Approval of the 2002-2003 Operating and Capital Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center

6199

Approval of Pratt Fund Distribution for 2002-2003

6199

Approval of Bond Issuance

6199

Amendment to Approval of Bond Issuance

6204

Approval of Re-appointment to the Board of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company

6205

Recommendation Regarding Fiscal Year 2003 Medical Center Operating Budget and Approval of Medical Center Employee Bonus Plan

6205

Approval of Changes to Medical Center Retirement Benefits

6206

Approval of Audit Schedule

6206

Approval of the 2003 Board Meeting Dates

6207

Memorial Resolution for Mr. A. Vincent Shea

6207

Approval of the Summary of Audit Findings

6208

Approval of Future Property Acquisitions

6208

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

6209

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Elections of Chairholders

6210

Change in Titles of Chairholders

6212

Special Salary Actions of Chairholders

6213

Resignation of Chairholder

6214

Retirements of Chairholders

6214

Promotions

6214

Special Salary Actions

6223

Resignations

6226

Retirements

6228

Change in the Title of the Retirement of Mr. George B. Thomas, Jr.

6228

Appointments

6228

Re-Appointments

6229

PAGE

Election of Dr. R. Ariel Gomez as Interim Vice President for Research and Graduate Studies

6229

Election of Professors Emeriti

6229

Change in the Emeritus Title of Mr. George B. Thomas, Jr.

6230

Election of Associate Professor Emeritus

6230

Change in the Election of Mr. R. Edward Howell

6230

Deaths

6231

The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Resignation

6231

Approval of a Permanent Easement for the University of Virginia Across Property Owned by Wisteria Properties, L.C. Located at 2015 Ivy Road

6231

Approval of a Permanent Easement for the University of Virginia Across Property Owned by University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation Located at 132 Emmet Street and at the Cavalier Inn at the Intersection of Emmet Street and Ivy Road

6232

Approval of Architectural Design Guidelines for the Children's Medical Center Addition and Renovation Project

6232

Approval of Schematic and Preliminary Design for the MRI Addition

6232

Resolution on the Bond Issue

6232

Assignment of Lower Apartment, Pavilion VIII, East Lawn

6233

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS May 30-June 1, 2002
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 4:15 p.m, Thursday, May 30, 2002, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, presided. William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Charles L. Glazer, William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mark J. Kington, H. Timothy Lovelace, Jr., Don R. Pippin, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Terence P. Ross, Warren M. Thompson, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, and E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., were present.

Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., R. Ariel Gomez, M.D., Steven H. Kaplan, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Rector introduced the new Members of the Board: Mark J. Kington, Don R. Pippin, Warren M. Thompson, and E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D. He then expressed appreciation to the retiring Members: Charles M. Caravati, Jr., M.D., Timothy B. Robertson, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, and Joseph E. Wolfe.

The Rector called for a motion approving the Minutes of the April 4-6, 2002, meeting of the Board. By vote, the Minutes were approved.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

On motion, the Executive Committee was elected: John P. Ackerly, III, Thomas F. Farrell, II, William H. Goodwin, Jr., Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., and Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy.

RESOLUTION TO APPROVE ADDITIONAL ACTION ITEMS
---------------------------------------------

By resolution, as required in the Manual, the Board agreed to consider several items which were not previously on the Agenda.

RESOLVED that a resolution authorizing five consent resolutions be considered by the Buildings and Grounds Committee and if approved by the Committee, by the full Board. The proposed resolutions were brought to the attention of the Board after the setting of the Agenda.

The President then gave his customary report on gifts and grants received since the previous meeting of the Board. By vote the Board accepted these.

The President also discussed the General Obligation Bond Issue, for the benefit of higher education, which was approved by the General Assembly and the Governor and will be submitted to the voters of the Commonwealth in a referendum in November. Mr. Ross suggested a formal resolution of the Board affirming its support of the Bond Issue and encouraging the approval of the voters.

The Board adjourned as the full Board at 4:30 p.m. to begin Committee meetings.

The Board resumed in Open Session in the East Oval Room at 2:25 p.m, Friday, May 31, 2002. In addition to the Members present for the preliminary meeting on May 30th, Thomas F. Farrell, II, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, and Thomas A. Saunders, III, were in attendance.

The Board approved the following motions permitting it to meet in Executive Session:

That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia; under law as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to be advised by and discuss with General Counsel pending and probable litigation involving the University, and the legality of our admissions procedures, and to seek legal counsel with respect to a contested personnel termination; under law as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) and (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss acquisition of real estate by the University, where disclosure at this time would adversely affect the bargaining position and our negotiation strategy; under law as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (3) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss and seek legal counsel concerning the proper investment and distribution of Gift Endowment Income, where if made public initially, the financial interest of the University would be adversely affected; under law as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (6), (7) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss the investing of public funds relating to foundation-owned businesses where competition and bargaining is involved, and to discuss the potential expansion of the business operations, where disclosure at this time would adversely affect the University's financial interests; under law as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (5) and (6) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss potential gifts and fund-raising strategy for the benefit of the Medical Center through a related foundation, as well as to consider a facility naming which may have future gift implications; under law as provided for in Section 2.1-3711 (A) (4) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to be briefed on anticipated litigation and our legal obligations with respect to proposed real property disposition, where public discussion at this time would adversely affect the University's negotiations and legal strategy; under law as provided for in Section 2.1-3711 (A) (3), (6) and (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to be briefed on our legal authority with respect to procurement policies governing vendor compensation requirements; under law as provided for in Section 2.1-3711 (A) (7) of the Code of Virginia.

NAMING OF CRISPELL DRIVE
------------------------

The Board went into Executive Session at 2:30 p.m., and recessed at 4:30 p.m., to move to the Lower West Oval Room for a ceremony and reception marking the naming of Crispell Drive. At the ceremony, the President reported that Crispell Drive, a road which runs from 15th Street, S.W., to Lane Road just south of the University Hospital, was being named in memory of Dr. Kenneth W. Crispell (1916-1996), a former Dean of the School of Medicine and later Vice President for Health Affairs. Dr. Crispell's widow and a number of family members and old colleagues and friends were present for the ceremony.

The Board resumed its meeting in Executive Session at 11:15 a.m., Saturday, June 1, 2002. All Members present on Friday, save Messrs. Glazer and Saunders, were present for this meeting. The Board recessed at 12:20 p.m.

The Board resumed its meeting, in Open Session, at 12:30 p.m. All Members present for the earlier session, save Mr. Ross, were present.

The Board adopted the following resolutions:

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE SOUTH LAWN PROJECT
----------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated June 1, 2002, prepared by the Architect for the University, for the South Lawn project, are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE NEW ARENA
-------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated May 9, 2002, prepared by the Architect for the University, for the New Arena project, are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE CAMPBELL HALL ADDITION PROJECT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated May 9, 2002, prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Campbell Hall Addition project, are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE FOUR BUILDINGS AT THE DAVIS FARM — VIVARIUM COMPLEX ON ROUTE 20 SOUTH
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University owns four buildings (FAACS Building Numbers: 207-1678, 207-1681, 207-1682, and 2071683) at the Davis Farm — Vivarium Complex on Route 20 South in Albemarle County; and

WHEREAS, these structures are no longer used, and the site is needed for the construction of a new vivarium

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources; and

WHEREAS, the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources have approved the removal of these structures;

RESOLVED that the removal of these buildings (FAACS Building Numbers: 207-1678, 207-1681, 207-1682, and 207-1683) at the Davis Farm — Vivarium Complex on Route 20 South, in Albemarle County, is approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned buildings, and that the said officer ensure that the required reports regarding the building removals are sent to the Department of General Services.

APPROVAL OF INTENT TO ISSUE BONDS FOR THE ARTS & SCIENCES BUILDING, THE AQUATIC & FITNESS CENTER, THE EMMET STREET PARKING STRUCTURE AND THE CANCER CENTER RENOVATION PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "Institution") has undertaken or will undertake the acquisition of the School of Medicine research building, the construction of the Arts & Sciences building, an addition to the Aquatic & Fitness Center, the expansion of the Institution's hospital, the construction of the Emmet Street parking structure and the renovation of the Institution's Cancer Center facilities (collectively, the "Project"); and

WHEREAS, on November 9, 2000, the Board of Visitors of the Institution adopted a resolution declaring its official intent under Treasury Regulations Section 1.150-2 in connection with the acquisition of the School of Medicine research building, a portion of the Project, to issue indebtedness in the amount of $17,000,000 from which it expressed its expectation to reimburse itself for expenditures with the proceeds thereof; and

WHEREAS, on October 19, 2001, the Board of Visitors of the Institution adopted a resolution declaring its official intent under Treasury Regulations Section 1.150-2 in connection with the expansion of the Institution's hospital and the construction of the Emmet Street parking structure, each a portion of the Project, to issue indebtedness in the amounts of $54,000,000 and $14,000,000, respectively, from which it expressed its expectation to reimburse itself for expenditures with the proceeds thereof. With respect to the portion of the Project consisting of the construction of the Emmet Street parking structure, the Board of Visitors of the Institution now expects to issue an additional $3,500,000 in indebtedness; and

WHEREAS, the Institution has made or will make expenditures (the "Expenditures") in connection with the Project; and

WHEREAS, the Institution may determine that the funds advanced and to be advanced to pay Expenditures will be reimbursed to the Institution from the proceeds of one or more obligations to be issued by the Institution (the "Indebtedness"); and

RESOLVED that:

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION (ADENOSINE THERAPEUTICS, LLC)
------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia wishes to enter into sponsored research contracts with Adenosine Therapeutics, LLC, a Virginia Corporation, for developing therapeutic agents; and

WHEREAS, George A. Beller, M.D., Irving L. Kron, M.D., Joel M. Linden, Ph.D., Timothy L. MacDonald, Ph.D., and Gail W. Sullivan, Ph.D., have disclosed in advance their equity interests of four percent, six percent, 25 percent, eight percent and four percent, respectively, in Adenosine Therapeutics, LLC, and the University's entry into a research agreement with Adenosine Therapeutics, LLC, would thereby expose them to violation of the Conflict of Interests Act unless approved by the Board as permitted by §2.1-639.6(C)(7) of the Code of Virginia;

RESOLVED that waiver of conflict of interest of Dr. Beller, Dr. Kron, Mr. Linden, Mr. MacDonald, and Ms. Sullivan is approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to negotiate and enter into proposed contracts for developing therapeutic agents. This approval is granted provided, as required by the law, the faculty file the required annual disclosure statement of personal interests in Adenosine Therapeutics, LLC, the University files the required annual report concerning the contract with the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and the appropriate department chairs and deans vigilantly oversee application of University resources in the best interests of the University and in accordance with policy.

APPROVAL OF MILLER CENTER COUNCIL MEMBERS
-----------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Mr. Michael R. Beschloss, Mr. Mortimer M. Caplin, Mr. John William Galbraith, and Ms. Glynn D. Key be elected to the Council of the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs, each for a term of three years.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE NEW ARENA
----------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated May 9, 2002, and prepared by VMDO Architects of Charlottesville, for the New Arena, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the preliminary design level of development.

APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE MATERIALS SCIENCE ENGINEERING and NANOTECHNOLOGY BUILDING
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the preliminary design, dated May 9, 2002, and prepared by VMDO Architects of Charlottesville, for the Materials Science Engineering and Nanotechnology Building, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF THE SCHEMATIC AND PRELIMINARY DESIGN, HOSPITAL EXPANSION PROJECT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the schematic and preliminary design, dated May 9, 2002, and prepared by RTKL Associates of Baltimore, for the Hospital Expansion Project, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF THE 2002-2003 OPERATING BUDGET FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
--------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the 2002-2003 Operating Budget for the Academic Division is approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL OF THE 2002-2003 OPERATING BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the 2002-2003 Operating Budget for The University of Virginia's College at Wise is approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL OF THE 2002-2003 OPERATING AND CAPITAL BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the 2002-2003 Operating and Capital Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center, which includes hospital room and ancillary service rate increases of 5.0 percent and bonuses equal to a minimum of 2.5 percent of base pay for eligible employees, is approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL OF PRATT FUND DISTRIBUTION FOR 2002-2003
-------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the budget for the expenditure of funds from the Estate of John Lee Pratt be approved to supplement appropriations made by the Commonwealth of Virginia for the School of Medicine and Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics in the College of Arts & Sciences. The normal allocations, not to exceed $2.6 million for 2002-2003, are suggested by the department chairs and recommended by the dean of each school. The special distributions are not to exceed $3,533,000 for 2002-2003. To the extent the annual income from the endowment is not adequate to meet the recommended distribution, the principal of the endowment will be disinvested to provide funds for the approved budgets.

APPROVAL OF BOND ISSUANCE
-------------------------

WHEREAS, pursuant to Chapter 3.2, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the "Act"), the General Assembly of Virginia has authorized the Virginia College Building Authority (the "Authority") to develop a pooled bond program (the "Program") to purchase bonds and other debt instruments issued by public institutions of higher education in the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Institutions") to finance or refinance the construction of projects of capital improvement specifically included in a bill passed by a majority of those elected to each house of the General Assembly of Virginia (the "Projects"); and

WHEREAS, the Authority intends to issue from time to time under the Program its Educational Facilities Revenue Bonds (Public Higher Education Financing Program) (the "Bonds") to finance the purchase of bonds and other debt instruments issued by the Institutions to finance or refinance the Projects, all in the furtherance of the purposes of the Act and the Program; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "Board") may from time to time wish to finance or refinance Projects of the University of Virginia (the "Institution") through the Program; and

WHEREAS, if the Institution wishes to finance or refinance a Project through the Program, it will be necessary for the Institution to enter into a Loan Agreement (a "Loan Agreement") between the Authority and the Institution and to evidence the loan to be made by the Authority to the Institution pursuant to the Loan Agreement by issuing the Institution's promissory note (the "Note") pursuant to Section 23-19 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended, and pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the Authority will agree to issue its Bonds and to use certain proceeds of the Bonds to purchase the Note issued by the Institution and the Institution will agree to use the proceeds received from the Authority to finance or refinance the construction of the Project and to make payments under the Loan Agreement and the Note in sums sufficient to pay, together with certain administrative and arbitrage rebate payments, the principal of premium, if any, and interest due on that portion of the Bonds issued to purchase the Note; and

WHEREAS, the Institution now proposes to sell to the Authority its Note (the "2002A Note") to be issued under a Loan Agreement (the "2002A Loan Agreement") to finance or refinance from the proceeds of Bonds issued by the Authority in 2002 (the "2002A Bonds") all or a portion of the costs of the acquisition of the School of Medicine research building, the construction of the Arts and Sciences building, an addition to the Aquatic and Fitness Center, the expansion of the Institution's hospital, the construction of the Emmet Street parking structure and the renovation of the Institution's cancer center, all located on the Institution's Charlottesville campus (collectively, the "2002A Project"); and

WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Board to delegate to such Authorized Officers (as hereinafter defined) of the Institution the authority to approve the form of the 2002A Loan Agreement and the form of the 2002A Note on behalf of the Board and, similarly, to authorize such Authorized Officers of the Institution to execute, deliver and issue in the name of and on behalf of the Institution, the 2002A Loan Agreement, the 2002A Note and any and all documents necessary to effectuate the financing or refinancing of all or a portion of the costs of the 2002A Project through the Program with the Authority and to facilitate the purchase of the 2002A Note by the Authority; and

WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Board to approve the further participation by the Institution in the Program in order to finance and refinance the 2002A Project and to authorize the execution, delivery and issuance of such other Loan Agreements and Notes on terms and conditions substantially similar to the 2002A Loan Agreement and 2002A Note, as to be approved by the Authorized Officers or either of them, and to similarly authorize such authorized Officers of the Institution to execute, deliver and issue in the name of and on behalf of the Institution, all Loan Agreements, all Notes and any and all future documents necessary to effectuate the Program by financing or refinancing the 2002A Project with the Authority and to facilitate the purchase of the Notes by the Authority.

RESOLVED:

Section 1. The 2002A Project is hereby designated a Project to be undertaken and financed or refinanced by the Authority and, accordingly, the President of the Institution and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Institution (the "Authorized Officers"), or either of them, are hereby delegated and invested with full power and authority to approve the form of the 2002A Loan Agreement and the 2002A Note, and any pledge to the payment of the 2002A Note of the Institution's total gross university sponsored overhead, unrestricted endowment income, tuition and fees, indirect cost recoveries, auxiliary enterprise revenues, general and nongeneral fund appropriations and other revenues not required by law or restricted by a gift instrument to be used for another purpose, any of which are not required by law or by binding contract entered into on or prior to the date of issuance of the 2002A Bonds to be devoted to some other purpose on a basis that is senior in priority to the 2002A Bonds, as may be provided in the 2002A Loan Agreement, and such approval is hereby authorized, subject to the provisions of Section 4 hereof.

Section 2. Subject to the provisions of Section 4 hereof, the Authorized Officers, or either of them, are each hereby delegated and invested with full power and authority to execute, deliver and issue on behalf of the Board, (a) the 2002A Loan Agreement and the 2002A Note whose approval of such documents in accordance with Section 1 shall be evidenced conclusively by the execution and issuance of the 2002A Note and (b) any and all other documents, instruments or certificates as may be deemed necessary to consummate the financing or refinancing of all or a portion of the costs of the 2002A Project through the Program, the construction of the 2002A Project and the Institution's participation in the Program, and to further carry out the purposes and intent of this Resolution. The Authorized Officers are directed to take such steps and deliver such certificates prior to the delivery of the 2002A Note as may be required under existing obligations of the Institution.

Section 3. The Authorized Officers, or either of them, are each hereby delegated and invested with full power and authority to execute and deliver, on behalf of the Board, (a) such future Loan Agreements in substantially the form of the 2002A Loan Agreement, as to be approved by the Authorized Officers or either of them, with such changes, insertions or omissions as may be approved by the Authorized Officers, whose approval shall be evidenced exclusively by the execution and delivery of the future Loan Agreement, (b) such future Notes in substantially the form of the 2002A Note, as to be approved by the Authorized Officers or either of them, with such changes, insertions or omissions as may be approved by the Authorized Officers, whose approval shall be evidenced exclusively by the execution and delivery of the future Note, and (c) any and all other documents, instruments or certificates as may be deemed necessary in the future to consummate the Program, the construction, financing or refinancing of the 2002A Project and the Institution's participation in the Program, and to further carry out the purposes and intent of this Resolution in the future, it being the intent of the Board that no further action on behalf of the Board shall be necessary to empower the Authorized Officers, or either of them, to execute, deliver and issue such future Loan Agreements, future Notes and other documents as may be deemed necessary in order for the Institution to participate in the Program in the future.

Section 4. The authorizations given above as to the approval, execution, delivery and issuance of the 2002A Loan Agreement and the 2002A Note are subject to the following parameters: (a) that the principal amount to be paid under the 2002A Note shall not be greater than the aggregate amount authorized for the 2002A Project by the General Assembly of Virginia, including any adjustments required or permitted by law, (b) that the interest rate payable under the 2002A Note shall not exceed a "true" or "Canadian" interest cost more than 50 basis points higher than the interest rate for "AA" rated securities with comparable maturities, as reported by Delphis-Hanover, or another comparable service or index, on the date that the interest rates on the 2002A Note are determined, taking into account original issue discount or premium, if any, (c) that the weighted average maturity of the principal payments due under the 2002A Note shall not be in excess of 20 years, (d) that the last principal payment date under the 2002A Note shall not extend beyond the period of the reasonably expected economic life of the 2002A Project, (e) that the financing of the 2002A Project and the terms and provisions of the 2002A Loan Agreement and the 2002A Note will comply with the Alternative Construction and Financing Guidelines issued by the Commonwealth's Secretary of Finance, and (f) that the actual interest rates, maturities, and date of the 2002A Note shall be approved by an Authorized Officer, which approval will be evidenced by the execution of the 2002A Note.

Section 5. The authorizations given above as to the execution, delivery and issuance of any future Loan Agreements and future Notes are subject to the following parameters: (a) that the principal amount to be paid under such Notes shall not be greater than the amount authorized for the Projects being financed by the General Assembly of Virginia, including any adjustments required or permitted by law, (b) that the interest rate payable under such Notes shall not exceed a "true" or "Canadian" interest cost more than 50 basis points higher than the interest rate for "AA" rated securities with comparable maturities, as reported by Delphis-Hanover, or another comparable service or index on the dates that the interest rates on the Notes are determined, taking into account original issue discount or premium, if any, (c) that the weighted average maturity of the principal payments due under such Notes shall not be in excess of 20 years, (d) that the last principal payment date under such Notes shall not extend beyond the period of the reasonably expected economic life of the Projects being financed, and (e) that the financing of such Projects and the terms and provisions of such Loan Agreements and Notes will comply with the then current Alternative Construction and Financing Guidelines issued by the Commonwealth's Secretary of Finance.

Section 6. The Board acknowledges, on behalf of the Institution, that if the Institution fails to make any payments of debt service due under any Loan Agreement or Note, including the 2002A Loan Agreement and the 2002A Note, the Program authorizes the State Comptroller to charge against the appropriations available to the Institution all future payments of debt service on that Loan Agreement and Note when due and payable and to make such payments to the Authority or its designee, so as to ensure that no future default will occur on such Loan Agreement or Note.

Section 7. The Board agrees that if the Authority determines that the Institution is an "obligated person" under Rule 15c2-12 of the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to any issue of Bonds, the Institution will enter into a continuing disclosure undertaking in form and substance satisfactory to the Authority and the Institution and will comply with the provisions and disclosure obligations contained therein.

Section 8. This resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.

AMENDMENT TO APPROVAL OF BOND ISSUANCE
--------------------------------------

RESOLVED FURTHER that in the event the total costs of financing the 2002A Project through the Virginia College Building Authority Pooled Bond Program are higher than issuing bonds through the Institution (University), the President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, or either of them, are hereby delegated and invested with full power and authority, with the approval of the Executive Committee of the Board, to approve, execute, deliver, and issue, any and all documents necessary to effectuate the financing or refinancing of the 2002A Project through the Institution rather than through the Virginia College Building Authority Pooled Bond Program.

APPROVAL OF RE-APPOINTMENT TO THE BOARD OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the policies of the Board of Visitors authorize appointment of up to four public members to the Board of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company, who shall be alumni of the University, to serve as non-voting members in staggered initial terms not to exceed four years, and the aforesaid policies further provide that no member shall be eligible to serve more than two successive four-year terms.

RESOLVED that A. Macdonald Caputo of New York is re-appointed to serve as a public member of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company Board, for a term of four years beginning July 1, 2002.

RECOMMENDATION REGARDING FISCAL YEAR 2003 MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BUDGET AND APPROVAL OF MEDICAL CENTER EMPLOYEE BONUS PLAN
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board has reviewed the Fiscal Year 2003 Medical Center operating budget; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board recommends to the Finance Committee and the Board of Visitors approval of the Fiscal Year 2003 Medical Center operating budget; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-2905 of the Code of Virginia authorizes the Board of Visitors to establish compensation plans for employees of the Medical Center; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center proposes to pay an employee bonus equal to a minimum of 2.5% of base salary for eligible employees;

RESOLVED that the Fiscal Year 2003 Medical Center operating budget as recommended by the Medical Center Operating Board, is approved;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the payment in August, 2002, of a one-time bonus equal to a minimum of 2.5% of base salary for eligible Medical Center employees is approved; the exact payment is to be determined by the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center, with the concurrence of the Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University.

APPROVAL OF CHANGES TO MEDICAL CENTER RETIREMENT BENEFITS
---------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Medical Center desires to amend the Medical Center's retirement plan benefits on a prospective basis; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board after careful review believes it is in the best interest of the Medical Center to amend the retirement plan benefits;

RESOLVED that the Medical Center is authorized to amend the retirement plan benefits to provide for (i) a 4% employer contribution, (ii) an employer matching contribution of 50% on 403(b) contributions of up to 4% of pay and (iii) a vesting period of two years for the employer contributions; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that such amendment shall become effective no earlier than October 1, 2002, and shall apply to Medical Center employees hired on or after such effective date; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center, with the concurrence of the Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University, and in consultation with the General Counsel, is authorized to execute appropriate amendments and other legal documents to effectuate these changes to the Medical Center retirement plan.

APPROVAL OF AUDIT SCHEDULE
--------------------------

RESOLVED that the Audit Schedule for Fiscal Year 2002-2003, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE 2003 BOARD MEETING DATES
----------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Board meeting dates for 2003 are as follows:

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR MR. A. VINCENT SHEA
-------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, A. Vincent Shea, a native of Richmond, took a B.A. from the University in 1934 and an M.A. in 1935, and pursued further graduate studies at the University of Chicago and at Stanford University; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Shea returned to the University in 1936 to join the faculty; and

WHEREAS, after service in the United States Navy during World War II, Mr. Shea continued at the University until his retirement in 1982; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Shea served, sometimes simultaneously, as Bursar, Assistant to President Darden, Secretary to the Board of Visitors, Comptroller, Vice President for Business and Finance, Chairman of the Department of Government and Foreign Affairs, and Secretary of the Alumni Board of Trustees; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Shea, during his years of distinguished service to the University, was the trusted advisor of three Presidents and a succession of Rectors; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Shea received both the Raven Award and the Thomas Jefferson Award in recognition of his service to the University, and was a member of the Seven Society; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Shea died on May 18, 2002;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors remembers with admiration and gratitude the devotion and service of A. Vincent Shea to the University of Virginia, and notes his passing with profound regret.

APPROVAL OF THE SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-----------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period February 1, 2002, through April 30, 2002, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF FUTURE PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS
----------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board has from time to time authorized the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to acquire properties for University purposes;

WHEREAS, it is appropriate to update and extend that authority;

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to: 1) negotiate an appropriate price for properties that have been identified for future acquisition, when they become available, subject to the approval of the Chair of the Finance Committee and 2) execute any and all contracts or documents pertaining to their acquisition.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Elections of Chairholders(b) Change of Titles of Chairholders(c) Special Salary Actions of Chairholders(d) Resignation of Chairholder(e) Retirements of ChairholdersPROMOTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTSCHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE RETIREMENT OF MR. GEORGE B. THOMAS, JR.APPOINTMENTSRE-APPOINTMENTSELECTION OF DR. R. ARIEL GOMEZ AS INTERIM VICE PRESIDENT FOR RESEARCH AND GRADUATE STUDIESELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITICHANGE IN THE EMERITUS TITLE OF MR. GEORGE B. THOMAS, JR.ELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUSCHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MR. R. EDWARD HOWELLDEATHS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirements were announced:

The President announced that the title of Mr. George B. Thomas, Jr., as Professor of Philosophy, effective May 24, 2002, as shown in the retirement section of the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated April 6, 2002, be changed to read as follows:

The following appointments were announced:

The following re-appointments were announced:

RESOLVED that Dr. R. Ariel Gomez is elected Interim Vice President for Research and Graduate Studies, for one year, effective August 25, 2002.

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

The President announced that the Emeritus title of Mr. George B. Thomas, Jr., as Professor of Philosophy, effective May 24, 2002, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated April 6, 2002, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Associate Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that the election of Mr. R. Edward Howell as Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the University of Virginia Medical Center, for five years, effective February 25, 2002, at an annual salary of $500,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated January 26, 2002, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that Mr. R. Edward Howell is elected as Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the University of Virginia Medical Center, for three years, effective February 25, 2002, at an annual salary of $500,000.

The following deaths were announced:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISERESIGNATIONAPPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ACROSS PROPERTY OWNED BY WISTERIA PROPERTIES, L.C. LOCATED AT 2015 IVY ROAD
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resignation was announced:

RESOLVED that the request for an easement, dated June 1, 2002, from Wisteria Properties for a storm water line for the Emmet Street Parking Garage across the property owned by Wisteria Properties located at 2015 Ivy Road in Charlottesville is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easement.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ACROSS PROPERTY OWNED BY UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA REAL ESTATE FOUNDATION LOCATED AT 132 EMMET STREET AND AT THE CAVALIER INN AT THE INTERSECTION OF EMMET STREET AND IVY ROAD
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the request for an easement, dated June 1, 2002, from the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation for an access road and waterline for the Emmet Street parking structure across property owned by the Foundation located at 132 Emmet street and at the Cavalier Inn is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easement.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE CHILDREN'S MEDICAL CENTER ADDITION AND RENOVATION PROJECT
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated June 1, 2002, prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Children's Medical Center Addition and Renovation project, are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC AND PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE MRI ADDITION
-----------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the schematic and preliminary design, dated June 1, 2002, and prepared by LKPW Architects of Richmond, for the MRI Addition, is approved for further development and construction.

RESOLUTION ON THE BOND ISSUE
----------------------------

WHEREAS, the General Assembly at the 2002 Session approved the Commonwealth of Virginia Educational Facilities Bond Act of 2002; and

WHEREAS, the citizens of Virginia will be asked to approve this General Obligation Bond issue in a referendum to be held on November 5, 2002; and

WHEREAS, the proposed bond issue would provide funds for a number of projects vital to higher education in general in Virginia, as well as money for several cultural institutions; and

WHEREAS, the bond issue includes $68,319,000 for nine projects at the University in Charlottesville, and $9,475,000 for one project at The University of Virginia's College at Wise, all of them important to the mission the two institutions;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors endorses the bond issue, expresses its gratitude to the Governor and to the General Assembly for this approval of projects that are vital to higher education in Virginia, and encourages supporters of the University of Virginia and The University of Virginia's College at Wise to do everything possible to promote the approval of the bond issue in November.

ASSIGNMENT OF LOWER APARTMENT, PAVILION VIII, EAST LAWN
-------------------------------------------------------

The Secretary reported that the Executive Committee, by agreement on May 31st, assigned the Lower Apartment in Pavilion VIII to Dr. Arthur Garson, Jr. for one year, commencing in August, 2002.

RESOLVED that the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors assigns the Lower Apartment in Pavilion VIII, East Lawn, to Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D., for one year, commencing in August, 2002.

The following actions taken by the Board of Directors of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company (UVIMCO) since the last meeting of the Board of Visitors, do not require action by the Board of Visitors and are listed here as a matter of record:

RECOMMENDATION REGARDING FISCAL YEAR 2003 MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BUDGET AND APPROVAL OF MEDICAL CENTER EMPLOYEE BONUS PLANAPPROVAL OF CHANGES TO MEDICAL CENTER RETIREMENT BENEFITS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolutions adopted by the Medical Center Operating Board at its meeting on May 31, 2002, do not require action by the full Board and are listed here as a matter of record.

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board has reviewed the Fiscal Year 2003 Medical Center operating budget; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board recommends to the Finance Committee and the Board of Visitors approval of the Fiscal Year 2003 Medical Center operating budget; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-2905 of the Code of Virginia authorizes the Board of Visitors to establish compensation plans for employees of the Medical Center; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center proposes to pay an employee bonus equal to a minimum of 2.5% of base salary for eligible employees; and

RESOLVED that the Fiscal Year 2003 Medical Center operating budget as recommended by the Medical Center Operating Board, is approved;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the payment in August, 2002, of a one-time bonus equal to a minimum of 2.5% of base salary for eligible Medical Center employees is approved; the exact payment is to be determined by the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center, with the concurrence of the Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University.

WHEREAS, the Medical Center desires to amend the Medical Center's retirement plan benefits on a prospective basis; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board after careful review believes it is in the best interest of the Medical Center to amend the retirement plan benefits;

RESOLVED that the Medical Center is authorized to amend the retirement plan benefits to provide for (i) a 4% employer contribution, (ii) an employer matching contribution of 50% on 403(b) contributions of up to 4% of pay and (iii) a vesting period of two years for the employer contributions; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that such amendment shall become effective no earlier than October 1, 2002, and shall apply to Medical Center employees hired on or after such effective date; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center, with the concurrence of the Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University, and in consultation with the General Counsel, is authorized to execute appropriate amendments and other legal documents to effectuate these changes to the Medical Center retirement plan.

CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONSNEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFRE-APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFRESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFFNEW APPOINTMENTS OF HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFRE-APPOINTMENT OF HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFRESIGNATIONS OF HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Medical Policy Council for appointment to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Medical Policy Council for re-appointment to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Medical Policy Council for the resignations of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Medical Policy Council for the granting of credentials to the following healthcare professionals for appointment to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Medical Policy Council for the re-appointment of the following healthcare professionals to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Medical Policy Council for the resignations of clinical privileges to the following healthcare professionals are approved:

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 12:45 p.m.

AGG:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: May 30-June 1, 2002CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session — as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia — only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from considered in closed session.
