---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2003'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 23, 2003

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2009

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

April 23, 2003 MEMORANDUM
-------------------------

TO:

The Board of Visitors:

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector

Thomas J. Bliley, Jr.

Don R. Pippin

William G. Crutchfield

Jr. John R.M. Rodney

Susan Y. Dorsey

Terence P. Ross

Thomas F. Farrell, II

Thomas A. Saunders, Jr.

Charles L. Glazer

Warren M. Thompson

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr.

Mark J. Kington

Georgia M. Willis

Lewis F. Payne

John O. Wynne

FROM:

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

SUBJECT:

Corrections to the Minutes of the Board of Visitors Meeting of April 4-5, 2003

The following corrections should be made to the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors of April 4-5, 2003:

Approval of Schematic and Preliminary Design for the Swing Space Buildings
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copies to:

President John T. Casteen, III

Vice President Leonard W. Sandridge

RESOLVED that the schematic and preliminary design, dated April 3, 2003, and prepared by Train & Partners, Architects, of Charlottesville, for the Swing Space Buildings, is approved for further development and construction AGG: jb

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS APRIL 3-5, 2003
------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Resolution of Commendation to Herbert Timothy Lovelace, Jr.

6368

Approval of the Minutes of the January 31- February 1, 2003 Meeting

6389

Resolution of Commendation for Mr. C. Ray Smith

6371

Abolition of the Health Affairs Committee

6374

Creation of the Special Committee on Diversity

6374

Establishment of the Harrison Distinguished Professorship in Medicine

6376

Approval of Increase in Faculty and Staff Housing Rates for 2003-04

6378

Approval to Offer a New Degree Program: Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Biomedical Engineering in the School of Engineering and Applied Science

6380

Conflict of Interest Exemption (CaseNEX, LLC)

6380

Conflict of Interest Exemption (Avaki Corporation)

6380

Approval of the Appointments to The University of Virginia’s College at Wise Board

6381

Approval of Contract Rates for Dining Services for 2003-04 for the Academic Division and The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

6382

Approval of Revised Enrollment Projections

6383

Approval of Expanding the Pool of Available Internal Funds by $5.0 Million

6383

Approval of Six-Year Capital Outlay Plan

6384

Approval of Increase in Tuition and Required Fees and Other Charges for the Academic Division

6385

PAGE

Approval of Allocation of Required Fees for 2003-04 for the Academic Division

6389

Approval of Special Session Fee Rate

6390

Approval of Increase in Tuition and Required Fees and Other Charges for The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

6391

Memorial Resolution for Dr. Edwin L. Kendig, Jr.

6392

Memorial Resolution for Mr. Francis L. Berkeley, Jr.

6393

Approval of the Report on the Summary of Audit Findings

6396

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

6397

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Elections of Chairholders

6399

Change of Title of Chairholders

6400

Special Salary Actions of Chairholders

6400

Retirements of Chairholders

6401

Resignation of Chairholder

6402

Promotion

6402

Cancellation of the Promotion of Mr. George S. (Yiorgos) Allayannis

6403

Special Salary Actions

6403

Change in the Title of the Salary Action of Dr. Margaret E. Mohrmann

6412

Change in the Salary Action for Ms. Rachel Most

6412

Resignations

6413

Retirements

6414

Appointments

6416

Change in the Appointment of Mr. Michael G. Glasgow

6416

Re-Appointments

6416

Election of Professors Emeriti

6417

Election of Associate Professors Emeriti

6418

Deaths

6419

The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

Election

6419

Special Salary Actions

6419

Appointment

6420

Retirements

6420

Election of Professor Emerita

6420

Election of Associate Professor Emeritus

6421

ADDENDUM TO THE INDEX OF THE MINUTES APRIL 3-5, 2003
----------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Report on the President’s Commission on Diversity and Equity

6369

Report on the Alumni Engagement Task Force

6370

Report on the Bim Patton Press Box at the University of Virginia Baseball Stadium

6377

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS April 3-5, 2003
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 4:00 p.m., Thursday, April 3, 2003, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector, presided. William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, Thomas F. Farrell, II, Charles L. Glazer, William H. Goodwin, Jr., Mark J. Kington, Lewis F. Payne, Don R. Pippin, Terence P. Ross, Thomas A. Saunders, III, Ms. Georgia M. Willis, John O. Wynne, and H. Timothy Lovelace, Jr., were present.

John R.M. Rodney, the Student Member-elect, also was present.

Present as well were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Robert D. Sweeney, Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Ms. Yoke San Reynolds, Steven H. Kaplan, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Rector opened the meeting by introducing the new Members: Ms. Dorsey, Mr. Payne, Ms. Willis, and Mr. Wynne. He also introducedMr. Rodney, the Student Member-elect. He then commented on Mr. Lovelace, the current Student Member, and thanked him for his service on the occasion of this, his last Board meeting.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION TO HERBERT TIMOTHY LOVELACE, JR.
-----------------------------------------------------------

At the Rector’s request, the Secretary presented a resolution thanking and commending Mr. Lovelace. On motion, the following resolution was approved:

WHEREAS, Herbert Timothy Lovelace, Jr., of Roanoke, matriculated in the College in 1999; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Lovelace has been a leader in a wide variety of extracurricular activities and at the same time a recognized scholar, having won Intermediate Honors and election to the Raven Society; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Lovelace became the Student Member of the Board of Visitors in April, 2002, and has served the Board with great distinction; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Lovelace’s term as the Student Member expires on April 5, 2003;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors thanks its friend and colleague Tim Lovelace for his counsel and devoted service to the Board and to the University, and wishes him well when he matriculates in the School of Law in the fall.

APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE JANUARY 31-FEBRUARY 1, 2003 MEETINGPresident’s Commission on Diversity and EquityAlumni Engagement Task ForceGifts and Grants
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector called for a motion to approve the Minutes of the meeting of January 31-February 1. The motion was offered and the Minutes were approved.

The President made his customary report.

He reviewed several racial incidents that have occurred at the University over the last few months and announced that he will create a President’s Commission on Diversity and Equity. The membership will include faculty, students, representatives of the administration, alumni, parents and community members. The list of members will be announced in the next several weeks.

The commission will be charged with evaluating University programs that address issues of diversity and equity; identifying gaps in programs and suggesting remedies for filling those gaps; reviewing previous University studies on diversity and equity and examining comparable programs elsewhere for recommendations that should be implemented; and developing a “best practices” model. The commission will begin work later in the month an will deliver its final report to the President by May 1st, 2004, and will issue quarterly reports previous to that.

The President emphasized that he expects the commission to recommend specific courses of action for consideration by the University administration and the Board.

The previous weekend, at a Virginia 2020 session with the Alumni Board of Managers, the President said he had announced his intention to form the Alumni Engagement Task Force, a proposal which was endorsed by the Board of Managers. The Task Force will be asked to examine alumni relations programs in detail, and to make broad recommendations concerning approach, programs, resource allocation, and reporting structure.

The President reported private giving through January 31st, of the current fiscal year has amounted to $188.6 million, an increase of .45% over the comparable period last year.

Significant gifts since the last meeting of the Board include $4.5 million from Paul T. Jones, II, and Sonia K. Jones to athletics and to the College, in addition to a $1 million pledge to the Jefferson Scholars Foundation for a graduate fellowship to benefit the College. Mr. and Mrs. Goodwin have given $4,675,000 for athletics, the Medical School, historic preservation, the Darden School and The University of Virginia’s College at Wise. A $1 million deferred gift from Dr. Carol R. Angle to the Art Museum.

John and Bobbie Nau of Houston have made a commitment of $8.5 million for the building in the South Lawn Project that will house the History Department.

Funds raised for the Arena have reached $75 million and construction will begin shortly in order that the Arena can be open for the 2006-07 basketball season. Two significant recent gifts are $5 million from Mr. and Mrs. Goodwin and an additional $10 million – beyond their initial pledge of $20 million – from Mr. and Mrs. Paul Jones.

The President reported, too, that he expects a large gift for the fine arts to be made before the next Board meeting.

On motion, the Board accepted the President’s Gifts and Grants Report.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION FOR MR. C. RAY SMITH
-----------------------------------------------

The Rector noted that Mr. C. Ray Smith of the Darden School is retiring from the faculty after 42 years. He asked the Provost to present a resolution honoring Mr. Smith and marking the occasion. Mr. Block read the following resolution which on motion was approved by the Board:

WHEREAS, C. Ray Smith was raised in Bassett, did his undergraduate work at Bridgewater College, and matriculated in the Darden School in 1956; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Smith took his M.B.A. in 1958, a member of the second Darden class, and returned in 1961 to join the faculty; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Smith thus is the longest serving member of the Darden faculty and has taught virtually every living alumnus of the School; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Smith was elected a full professor in 1971 and Tipton R. Snavely Professor of Business Administration in 1981; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Smith continues to teach but also has held virtually every significant administrative position at the Darden School, including appointment as interim dean on three occasions; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Smith is also Executive Director of the Darden School Foundation; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Smith intends to retire on the occasion of the 45th reunion of his Darden class in the spring of 2003;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors salutes C. Ray Smith, exemplary good citizen of the University, thanks him for his years of devoted service, and extends him every best wish in his retirement.

Mr. Robert Harris, Dean of the Darden School, thanked the Board and spoke to Mr. Smith’s years of devoted service to the University. The President commented as well.

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON GOVERNANCE
-------------------------------

The Rector asked the Vice Rector, Mr. Farrell, to report on the work of the Special Committee on Governance, appointed after the last Board meeting by Mr. Ackerly, who designated Mr. Farrell as Chair.

Mr. Farrell said the Committee, whose members are Messrs. Crutchfield, Goodwin, Saunders and Vaughan, has held several meetings; other Members of the Board have participated in the Committee’s deliberations. His report, he said, would be preliminary as the Committee has not yet finished its work.

The Committee suggests that Board committees as much as possible hold their working meetings outside the context of Board of Visitors meetings. These meetings could be held on Friday mornings, concurrently if necessary. The regular Board meeting would begin after lunch on Friday and continue through Saturday morning. Members and their spouses would still gather informally at Carr’s Hill on Thursday evening, but otherwise the Board would not meet on Thursday.

Mr. Farrell then commented on each of the Board’s standing committees:

Audit – the Audit Committee should become the Audit and Compliance Committee and it should act more like a corporate audit committee. An important part of its expanded functions should be oversight of the University’s compliance with NCAA regulations.

Buildings and Grounds – the current issue of the Board Manual specifies instances of architectural decisions that can be made by the Committee without reference to the full Board. The Special Committee, however, agreed that there are instances where the whole Board should be involved in these decisions; the preliminary conclusion was that the Rector and the Chair of Buildings and Grounds would decide when projects should be referred to the full Board.

Educational Policy – the Special Committee agreed that the Educational Policy Committee should be revitalized. The Committee suggested that the President, the Rector, the Provost, and the Chair of Educational Policy – with perhaps additional comments by Deans – meet to examine the charter of the Committee and suggest how it might be restructured.

External Affairs – the External Affairs Committee should be charged with the planning and execution of the Capital Campaign. Relations between the Board and the various foundations are at present partly overseen by the External Affairs Committee and partly by the Finance Committee; these relationships must be examined further.

Finance and UVIMCO – there is concern about the potential lack of continuity of Board of Visitors Members on the UVIMCO Board. This question needs further study.

Health Affairs – the Special Committee recommends that this committee be abolished as its functions have been assumed by the Educational Policy Committee and by the Medical Center Operating Board. The Chair of the Health Affairs Committee, Dr. Vaughan, concurs in this recommendation.

Student Affairs and Athletics – discussion in the Special Committee focused on the proposal to separate these functions, create a new standing committee, and assign student affairs to one and athletics to the other. After a great deal of discussion, the Special Committee concluded that it did not have enough information to make an intelligent recommendation. It is important that there be an “in depth” look into the oversight of athletics.

Committee on Wise and Executive Committee – the Special Committee saw no need to recommend changes in the functions of these committees.

Special Committee on Diversity – the Special Committee on Governance recommended that the Rector appoint a Special Committee on Diversity to consider a number of these issues and to determine the Board’s specific responsibility in oversight.

Mr. Farrell observed that the Special Committee would continue its work and that perhaps some of the issues it has raised could be discussed at the Board Retreat in July.

The Rector concluded that two recommendations of the Special Committee called for immediate action: the abolition of the Health Affairs Committee and the creation, by him, of a Special Committee on Diversity. After discussion by the Board and noted approvals from Dr. Vaughan – in absentia - , the President and Mr. Sandridge, the Rector entertained a motion to abolish the Health Affairs Committee. The motion was approved.

ABOLITION OF THE HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the academic responsibilities of the Health Affairs Committee have been assumed by the Educational Policy Committee and the oversight of the Medical Center by the Medical Center Operating Board;

RESOLVED, the Health Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors is abolished.

CREATION OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON DIVERSITY
----------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that on the recommendation of the Special Committee on Governance, he was creating the Special Committee on Diversity, to be chaired by Mr. Thompson. In addition to Mr. Thompson, there will be five members who will be appointed later in the month. The Special Committee on Diversity will report to the Board at the Board Retreat in July. Initially, it is to consider:

The scope of efforts to promote diversity among members of the student body, faculty of all schools, staff and administrators;

The scope of efforts to promote diversity in external relations of the University, including with surrounding communities and all aspects of procurement of goods and services;

Efforts to promote understanding among all elements of the University community; and

The appropriate role of the Board in continuing oversight of diversity issues.

(A copy of the Rector’s charge is appended to these Minutes as an Attachment)

The meeting of the full Board was recessed at 5:05 p.m., for the meeting of the Committee on The University of Virginia’s College at Wise.

The Board reconvened in Open Session at 1:55 p.m., Friday, April 4, 2003, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; all Members present at the previous meeting were present, with the addition of Mr. Thompson.

After adopting the following motions, the Board went into Executive Session:

That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific employees of the University of Virginia; as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to confer with General Counsel on litigation risks involving the University, and to receive privileged legal advice from counsel on legislation governing meetings of this body and, further to evaluate with legal counsel a contested personnel termination and continued participation in a medical limited liability company that will also involve discussion of proprietary, business-related information of the University’s Medical Center where disclosure at this time would adversely affect its competitive position as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1), (6), (7), (8), and (23) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing a personnel matter pertaining to the appointment of a specific employee of the University of Virginia; as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board adopted the following resolution certifying the legality of its Executive Session discussions and recessed at 3:20 p.m., to reconvene at 3:30 in the Dome Room of the Rotunda:

Mr. Rector, I move that we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member’s knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

The Board assembled in the Dome Room, in Open Session, at 3:30 p.m., and approved the following resolution creating the Harrison Distinguished Professorship in Medicine:

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HARRISON DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN MEDICINE
---------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the late David A. Harrison, III, of Prince George County, an alumnus of the College and of the School of Law, made generous gifts and bequests to various elements of the University; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Harrison’s last benefaction to the School of Medicine amounted to $20.3 million, to be used to fund chairs and provide academic support; and

WHEREAS, the School of Medicine has designated $19.3 million of this for professorships in the School and $1 million for the Harrison Scholars Awards in Medicine, a prize to recognize excellence in teaching; and

WHEREAS, the President and the School of Medicine have requested the establishment of the Harrison Distinguished Professorship in Medicine with $2 million of Mr. Harrison’s bequest; and

WHEREAS, it is the intention of the President to request from the Board of Visitors in the future the establishment of additional professorships in the School of Medicine with funds from the Harrison bequest;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Harrison Distinguished Professorship in Medicine, to be held in the School of Medicine, and once more pays tribute to the magnificent generosity of David A. Harrison, III, to the University of Virginia.

THE BIM PATTON PRESS BOX AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA BASEBALL STADIUM
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board heard a report from the President on the naming of the Bim Patton Press Box at the University of Virginia Baseball Stadium. The Press Box was named in memory of the late James Doddridge Patton, III, of Richmond, known as “Bim.”

The Board recessed for the day at 4:00 p.m.

The Board resumed its meeting, in Open Session, at 10:40 a.m., on Saturday, April 5th, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda. All Members present at the sessions the day before were present, save Mr. Farrell.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR 2003-04Academic Division
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rents

Proposed Rents

Utilities

Properties

UtilitiesFurnished

2002-2003Per Month

AmountIncrease

PercentIncrease

2003-2004Per Month

Paid ByOccupant

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom Apt. (7)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T

$532

$26

4.89%

$558

2 Bedroom Apt. (16)

WS,E,G,C,T

$648

$27

4.17%

$675

3 Bedroom Houses (16)(E)

WS,C,T

$917

$55

6.00%

$972

G,E

3BR Townhouses (5)(E)

WS,C,T

$917

$55

6.00%

$972

G,E

Farmhouse Apt 1 (1BR)(F)1

WS,E,G,C,T,A,C

$579

$35

6.04%

$614

Farmhouse Apt 2 (3BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$498

$36

6.02%

$634

Farmhouse Apt 3 (1 BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$498

$27

5.42%

$525

Farmhouse Apt 4 (2BR)(F)1

WS,E,G,C,T,A,C

$654

$40

6.12%

$694

Sundry

Vyssotsky Cottage (3BR) (E)

WS,T,A/C

$739

$34

4.60%

$773

E,G

McGuffey Cottage (Eff)

WS,E,V,T,A/C

$445

$26

5.84%

$471

Upper Mews (1BR) (F)

WS,E,HP,C,T,A/C

$630

$38

6.03%

$668

Lower Mews (1BR) (F)

WS,E,HP,C,T,A/C

$534

$32

5.99%

$566

Monroe Hill Range (1BR)2

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$640

$77

12.03%

$717

Brown College Apts. (2BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$572

$48

8.39%

$620

Hereford Coll. Apts. (2BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$687

$48

6.99%

$735

Hereford Coll. Principal Residence (3BR)

WS,E,HVAC,V

$865

$52

6.01%

$917

102 Cresap Fac Apt. (1BR) (F)

WS,E,G,T,HVAC,V

$645

$39

6.05%

$684

Hedge House (2BR) (F)

WS,C,T,A/C

$691

$38

5.50%

$729

E,G

Orchard House (5RMS) (F)

WS,E,G,C,T,A/C

$322

$29

9.01%

$351

Carriage House (4BR)

WS,C,T

$640

$56

8.75%

$696

E,G

118 Oakhurst, Upper (2BR)

WS,G,C

$606

$32

5.28%

$638

E,T

118 Oakhurst, Lower (2BR)

WS,G,C

$606

$32

5.28%

$638

E,T

409 Valley Rd, (2BR) (F)3

WS,E,G,C,A/C

$856

$50

5.84%

$906

T

411 Valley Rd, (2BR) (F)

WS,E,G,C,A/C

$856

$50

5.84%

$906

T

503 Valley Rd, (1BR)

C

$476

$33

6.93%

$50

WS,E,G,T

424 MLLH, (1BR) (F)

WS,E,G,C,HVAC,V

$615

$33

5.37%

$648

423 MLLH, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,HVAC,V

$700

$52

7.43%

$752

Rents

Proposed Rents

Utilities

Properties

UtilitiesFurnished

2002-2003Per Month

AmountIncrease

PercentIncrease

2003-2004Per Month

Paid ByOccupant

Birdwood Properties

Cottage (1BR) (R)

WS,C,T

$495

$28

5.66%

$523

E

Garage (2BR)

WS,C,T

$702

$38

5.41%

$740

E,G

Cash House (3BR) (E) 4

WS,C,T,A/C

$900

$50

5.56%

$950

E,G

Middleton House (4BR)

WS,C,T,A/C

$1,059

$64

6.04%

$1,123

E,G

Faculty Apartments – Rugby Road

1 Bedroom Apts. (6) (E)

WS,E,G,C,T

$467

$0

0.0%

$467

2 Bedroom Apts. (4)

WS,E,G,C,T

$570

$0

0.0%

$570

Apt. 21, (Eff)

WS,E,G,C,T

$388

$0

0.0%

$388

Apt. 22, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$448

$0

0.0%

$488

Apt. 23, (Eff)

WS,E,G,C,T

$388

$0

0.0%

$388

Apt. 24, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$448

$0

0.0%

$448

2 Bedroom Apts. (4)

WS,E,G,C,T

$507

$0

0.0%

$507

E & G Properties

Montebello, (3 BR/Garage)

WS,E,G,A/C

$683

$21

3.07%

$704

C,T

Big Morea (4 BR) (F)

WS,E,G,A/C,T

$958

$29

3.03%

$987

C

Little Morea (2BR) (F)

WS,E,G,A/C,T

$736

$23

3.13%

$759

C

Sunnyside (4BR)

WS,E,O,A/C

$1,524

$46

3.02%

$1,570

C

Monroe Hill House (4BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$886

$46

3.02%

$1,570

C

Buckingham Palace (Eff)

WS,E,HP,A/C,T

$327

$10

3.06%

$337

C

Pavilion I (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$808

$23

2.85%

$831

C

Pavilion II (5BR)

WS,HP,T,V

$598

$16

2.68%

$614

C

Pavilion III (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$808

$23

2.85%

$831

C

Pavilion IV (5BR)

WS,HP,T,V

$598

$16

2.68%

$614

C

Pavilion V (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$808

$23

2.85%

$831

C

Pavilion VI (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$808

$23

2.85%

$831

C

Pavilion VIII Upper (3BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$520

$14

2.69%

$534

C

Pavilion VIII Lower (1BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$273

$8

2.93%

$281

C

Pavilion IX (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$808

$23

2.85%

$831

C

Pavilion X (5BR)

WS,E,HP,T,V

$598

$16

2.68%

$614

C

Blandy Farm

Curator's House

WS

$0

$0

0.0%

$0

E,O

Curator's House

WS

$65

$0

0.0%

$65

E,O

RESOLVED that the faculty and staff housing rates be approved as indicated, effective July 1, 2003. The Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to increase the rates to market level when a property is vacated.

Notes: 1The Provost Office took over the assignment of 121-1 and 121-4 Mimosa Dr. in 2002-2003; the rental rate increase coincided with the addition of furniture. 2Voice included in rental rate. In addition, major renovations were completed.3Rental rate increase in 2002-2003 coincided with the addition of furniture.4Rental rate brought to market in 2002-2003.

“E” designates enhanced properties; “F” designates furnished properties.

Utility abbreviations: WS (water, sewer), E (electric), G (gas), O (oil), HP (heating plant), HVAC (heating, venting, and air conditioning system), A/C (window air conditioning), C (cable TV), V (voice and data) and T (trash removal).

APPROVAL TO OFFER A NEW DEGREE PROGRAM: BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (B.S.) IN BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING IN THE SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that, subject to approval by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, the Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Biomedical Engineering be established in the School of Engineering and Applied Science.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION (CASENEX, LLC)
---------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia wishes to enter into a research contract with CaseNEX, LLC, to perform research on cases used as evaluation devices; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Robert F. McNergney and Ms. Joanne M. McNergney have disclosed in advance that their equity in CaseNEX, LLC, exceeds 3%; and

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia’s entry into a research agreement with CaseNEX, LLC, would expose Mr. McNergney and Ms. McNergney to violation of the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act unless approved by the Board as permitted by §2.2-3106(c)(7) of the Code of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the conflicts of interest of Mr. Robert F. McNergney and Ms. Joanne M. McNergney are approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to enter into an agreement with CaseNEX, LLC, to perform research on cases used as evaluation devices; provided, as required by the law, Mr. McNergney and Ms. McNergney file the required annual disclosure statements of personal interests in CaseNEX, LLC, the University files the required annual report concerning the contracts with the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and chair of the Department of Educational Leadership, Foundations and Policy vigilantly oversees application of University resources in the best interests of the University and in accordance with policy.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION (AVAKI CORPORATION)
--------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia wishes to enter into a research contract with Avaki Corporation to conduct joint research with Avaki and to license grid-computing software for use in research by University faculty; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Andrew S. Grimshaw has disclosed in advance that his equity in Avaki Corporation exceeds 3%; and

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia’s entry into a contract with Avaki Corporation would expose Mr. Grimshaw to violation of the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act unless approved by the Board as permitted by §2.2-3106(c) (7) of the Code of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the conflict of interest of Mr. Andrew S. Grimshaw is approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to enter into a research agreement with Avaki Corporation which includes a license of grid computing software; provided, as required by the law, Mr. Grimshaw files the required annual disclosure statement of personal interests in Avaki Corporation, the University files the required annual report concerning the contracts with the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and the chair of the Department of Computer Science monitors the use of University resources connected with the contract in order to protect the interests of the University and to ensure compliance with policy.

APPROVAL OF THE APPOINTMENTS TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE BOARD
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Messrs. Earl Wendell Barnette, James M. Gott, Larry A. Munsey, and Ms. Ruby W. Rogers be re-appointed to The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board, for terms ending June 30, 2007, in accordance with the terms of the Wise Board’s Bylaws.

APPROVAL OF CONTRACT RATES FOR DINING SERVICES FOR 2003-2004 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISEACADEMIC DIVISION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Actual2002-2003

Amount ofIncrease

PercentIncrease

Proposed2003-2004

Regular (1,2)

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$2,780

$100

3.6%

$2,880

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

2,780

100

3.6%

2,880

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

2,780

100

3.6%

2,880

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $780 Plus Dollars

2,780

100

3.6%

2,880

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,350

90

3.8%

2,440\*

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,580

60

3.8%

1,640

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,370

50

3.6%

1,420

50 Meals per semester w/ $390 Plus Dollars

1,040

40

3.8%

1,080

Residential Colleges/Language Houses (1,2,3)

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$2,890

$100

3.5%

$2,990

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

2,890

100

3.5%

2,990

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

2,890

100

3.5%

2,990

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $780 Plus Dollars

2,890

100

3.5%

2,990

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,460

90

3.7%

2,550

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,690

60

3.6%

1,750

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,480

50

3.4%

1,530

50 Meals per semester w/ $390 Plus Dollars

1,150

40

3.5%

1,190

Athletics

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$2,890

$100

3.5%

$2,990

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

2,890

100

3.5%

2,990

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

2,890

100

3.5%

2,990

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $780 Plus Dollars

2,890

100

3.5%

2,990

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,460

90

3.7%

2,550

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,690

60

3.6%

1,750

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,480

50

3.4%

1,530

Other

Lawn Meal Plan (3)

$120

$5

4.2%

$125

Law School Meal Plan (3)

400

0

0.0%

400

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE

19 Meal Plan

$2,387

$95

4.0%

$2,482

12 Meal Plan

2,146

86

4.0%

2,232

RESOLVED that the student contract rates for dining services be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 2003-2004 session:

NOTES:

APPROVAL OF REVISED ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS
------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Administration of the University has recommended that the University’s existing enrollment plan, approved by the Board of Visitors in May 2001, can be revised to reflect projected increases in the undergraduate and graduate enrollment levels; and

WHEREAS, there is no projected change in enrollment in the Continuing and Professional Studies and first professional student populations between 2003-2004 and 2007- 2008; and

WHEREAS, the revised enrollment projections for 2003- 2004 through 2007-2008 were submitted to the State Council of Higher Education in Virginia on March 14, 2003;

RESOLVED that, compared with the 2001 plan, the undergraduate student population increase by 70 in the extended period between 2007-2008; the graduate student population increase by 290; the first-professional student population decrease by 23 students; and the Continuing and Professional Studies student population on the Grounds hold steady, resulting in a total student enrollment target of approximately 337 more on-Grounds students than was approved in 2001. The total enrollment target in 2007 will be 19,655 students, 1,745 more than in the 1989-1990 base year; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that all undergraduate growth maintain the current mix of in-state and out-of-state students and the same quality of education currently provided to undergraduate students.

APPROVAL OF EXPANDING THE POOL OF AVAILABLE INTERNAL FUNDS BY $5.0 MILLION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has assented to construct a new student center at the University of Virginia’s College at Wise and to renovate and expand Clark Hall; and

WHEREAS, these two projects are substantially under construction; and

WHEREAS, each will experience cash flow requirements for expenses incurred in advance of receiving the proceeds from expected funding sources; and

WHEREAS, controlling the cash flows by delaying further construction until funding is received would result in significantly higher costs later and cause other dislocations related to the efficient and optimal management of these projects; and

WHEREAS, the University already has in place a funding mechanism authorized by the Board of Visitors to address such short-term project needs; and

WHEREAS, other funding solutions are proscribed or impractical to implement; and

WHEREAS, the pro forma analyses prepared for each of these projects indicate that the short-term financing, if approved, can be satisfactorily repaid under terms customarily granted, including provisions for term and interest rate.

RESOLVED that the permanent revolving internal loan pool is expanded from its current level of $10.0 million to $15.0 million; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to administer this expanded pool in accordance with present practices and guidelines, and execute such documents as may be necessary to effect the transactions.

APPROVAL OF SIX-YEAR CAPITAL OUTLAY PLAN
----------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Six-Year Capital Outlay Plan for the Academic Division, the Medical Center, and The University of Virginia’s College at Wise for the 2004-2010 period is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to make necessary revisions to the Plan prior to its submission to the state, provided the revisions do not alter in any substantive way the overall capital program as approved.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2002-03AnnualizedBase

Amount ofBase Increase

Increase forSalary &Benefit Costs

Percent ofIncrease

2002-03Proposed

2002-03AnnualizedBase

Amount ofBase Increase

Increase forSalary &Benefit Costs

Percent ofIncrease

2003-04Proposed

REGULAR SESSION:

Undergraduate School:

Tuition and Required E&G Fees

$ 4,197

$ 211

$ 287

11.9%

$ 4,695

$ 19,407

$ 1,021

$ 287

6.7%

$ 20,715

Required Auxiliary Fees

$ 1,129

$ 72

$ 29

8.9%

$ 1,230

$ 1,129

$ 72

$ 29

8.9%

$ 1,230

Total Tuition and Required Fees

$ 5,326

$ 283

$ 316

11.2%

$ 5,925

$ 20,536

$ 1,093

$ 316

6.9%

$21,945

Graduate School:

Tuition and Required E&G Fees

$ 5,263

$ 1,037

$ 287

25.2%

$ 6,587

$ 18,353

$ 55

$ 287

1.9%

$18,695

Auxiliary Fees

$ 1,129

$ 72

$ 29

8.9%

$ 1,230

$ 1,129

$ 72

$ 29

8.9%

$ 1,230

Total Tuition and Required Fees

$ 6,392

$ 1,109

$ 316

22.3%

$ 7,817

$ 19,482

$ 127

$ 316

2.3%

$19,925

School of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School (Tuition & Required Fees):

9 or more hours

$ 6,392

$ 1,109

$ 316

22.3%

$ 7,817

$ 19,482

$ 127

$ 316

2.3%

$19,925

4-8 hours

$ 5,749

$ 981

$ 220

20.9%

$ 6,950

$ 13,400

$ 127

$ 220

2.6%

$13,747

1-3 hours

$ 4,467

$ 797

$ 111

20.3%

$ 5,375

$ 6,794

$ 55

$ 111

2.4%

$ 6,960

Research

$ 3,865

$ 676

$ 72

19.4%

$ 4,613

$ 3,865

$ 686

$ 72

19.6%

$ 4,623

School of Medicine (Tuition & Required Fees):

Students Entering Fall 2003

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

$22,341

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

$34,391

Students Entering Fall 2002

$ 18,910

$ 1,265

$ 316

8.4%

$20,491

$ 31,192

$ 2,883

$ 316

10.3%

$34,391

Students Entering Fall 2001

$ 17,410

$ 1,265

$ 316

9.1%

$18,991

$ 31,192

$ 2,883

$ 316

10.3%

$34,391

Students Entering Fall 2000

$ 16,410

$ 1,265

$ 316

9.6%

$17,991

$ 31,192

$ 2,883

$ 316

10.3%

$34,391

Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration:

Tuition and Required Fees

$ 26,507

$ 1,619

n/a

6.1%

$28,126

$ 31,507

$ 1,619

n/a

5.1%

$33,126

School of Law (Tuition & Required Fees):

Students Entering Fall 2003

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

$23,725

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

$29,128

Students Entering Fall 2002

$ 20,939

$ 1,586

n/a

7.6%

$22,525

$ 27,279

$ 1,849

n/a

6.8%

$29,128

Students Entering Fall 2001

$ 19,739

$ 1,586

n/a

8.0%

$21,325

$ 27,279

$ 1,849

n/a

6.8%

$29,128

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2002-03Approved

Amount ofBase Increase

Percent ofIncrease

2003-04Proposed

2002-03Approved

Amount ofBase Increase

Percent ofIncrease

2003-04Proposed

SPECIAL SESSION:

McIntire School of Commerce Exec. Masters of Science (Tuition, fees, room, board, technology, books, transportation, and supplies)Tuition rates for these programs are effective May 1, 2003

MIT

$29,975

$ 899

3.0%

$30,874

$34,975

$ 1,049

3.0%

$36,024

Accounting

$24,105

$ 723

3.0%

$24,828

$29,105

$ 873

3.0%

$29,978

School of Engineering and Applied Science Exec. Master of Science (Tuition, fees, room, board, technology, books, and supplies) Tuition rate for this program is effective May 1, 2003

Systems Engineering – two-year off-grounds program

$21,000

n/a

n/a

n/a

$21,000

n/a

n/a

n/a

Systems Engineering – one -year on-grounds program

n/a

n/a

n/a

$29,500

n/a

n/a

n/a

$29,500

School of Continuing and Professional Studies:

Bach. of Interdisciplinary Studies (per sem)

$ 2,473

$ -

0.0%

$ 2,473

$ 9,654

$ -

0.0%

$ 9,654

Non-Degree Per Hour - Undergrad

$ 123

$ 37

30.1%

$ 160

$ 283

$ 31

11.0%

$ 314

Non-Degree Per Hour - Graduate

$ 180

$ 20

11.1%

$ 200

$ 298

$ 33

11.1%

$ 331

Non-Degree Per Hour - K-12 Educators

$ 145

$ 20

13.8%

$ 165

$ 257

$ 25

9.7%

$ 282

Professional Per Hour

$ 180

$ 20

11.1%

$ 200

$ 298

$ 33

11.1%

$ 331

Masters Degree Per Hour

$ 215

$ 5

2.3%

$ 220

$ 350

$ 10

2.9%

$ 360

Graduate Televised Engineering Per Hour

$ 294

$ 10

3.4%

$ 304

$ 566

$ 10

1.8%

$ 576

Special SCPS Students Per Hour

$ 221

$ 4

1.8%

$ 225

$ 991

$ -

0.0%

$ 991

Northern Virginia Facilities Fee Per Hour

$ 12

$ 3

25.0%

$ 15

$ 12

$3

25.0%

$ 15

Technology Fee (per semester)

$ 10

$ (10)

100%

$ -

$ 10

$ (10)

100.0%

$ -

Technology Fee (per hour)

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 4

n/a

n/a-

n/a

$ 4

Study Abroad (per semester) 3-7 hours

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 2,000

n/a

n/a-

n/a

$ 2,000

Study Abroad (per semester) 8-15 hours

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 3,500

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 3,500

Other Miscellaneous Fees as established to recover expenses such as laboratory, materials, etc., on a basis of estimated cost.

All Students

2002-03Approved

Amount ofIncrease

Percent ofIncrease

2003-04Proposed

Other Charges:

Application Fee – Undergraduate

$ 40

$ -

0.0%

$ 40

Application Fee – Graduate

$ 40

$ -

0.0%

$ 40

Application Fee – Law

$ 65

$ -

0.0%

$ 65

Application Fee – Darden

$ 140

$ -

0.0%

$ 140

Application Fee – Medicine

$ 60

$ 15

25.0%

$ 75

Application Fee - SCPS

$ 25

$ -

0.0%

$ 25

Application Fee - SCPS BIS

$ 40

$ -

0.0%

$ 40

Activity Fee – All Full-time Students

$ 39

$ -

0.0%

$ 39

Activity Fee – All Part-time Students

$ 12

$ -

0.0%

$ 12

Activity Fee – Arts & Sciences

$ 4

$ -

0.0%

$ 4

Activity Fee – Architecture

$ 46

$ -

0.0%

$ 46

Activity Fee – Commerce

$ 10

$ -

0.0%

$ 10

Activity Fee – Darden

$ 55

$ -

0.0%

$ 55

Activity Fee – Education

$ 10

$ -

0.0%

$ 10

Activity Fee – Engineering

$ 10

$ -

0.0%

$ 10

Activity Fee – Grad. Arts & Sciences

$ 10

$ -

0.0%

$ 10

Activity Fee – Law School

$ 34

$ -

0.0%

$ 34

Activity Fee – Medicine

$ 106

$ -

0.0%

$ 106

Activity Fee – Nursing

$ 55

$ -

0.0%

$ 55

Residential College Fee – Hereford

$ 120

$ -

0.0%

$ 120

Residential College Fee – Brown

$ 120

$ -

0.0%

$ 120

Residential College Fee – International

$ 220

$ -

0.0%

$ 220

Residential College Fee – Mosaic

$ 220

$ -

0.0%

$ 220

Residential College Fee – French

$ 100

$ -

0.0%

$ 100

Residential College Fee – Spanish

$ 100

$ -

0.0%

$ 100

Residential College Fee – Monroe Lane

$ 100

$ -

0.0%

$ 100

International Student Fee

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 100

Virginian

Non-Virginian

ApprovedSummer2003

Amount ofIncrease

Percent ofIncrease

ProposedSummer2004

ApprovedSummer2003

Amount ofIncrease

Percent ofIncrease

ProposedSummer2004

2004 Summer Session and Mt. Lake Biological Station:

Undergraduate Per Semester Hour

$ 118

$ 45

38.0%

$ 163

$ 649

$ 71

10.9%

$ 720

Graduate Per Semester Hour

$ 122

$ 58

47.6%

$ 180

$ 612

$ 37

6.0%

$ 649

Thesis/Dissertation Research

$ 510

$ 202

39.6%

$ 712

$ 510

$ 202

39.6%

$ 712

Appellate Judges Program

$ 1,375

$ -

0.0%

$ 1,375

$ 1,435

$ -

0.0%

$ 1,435

Non-Resident Fee

$ 75

$ 23

30.7%

$ 98

$ 75

$ 23

30.7%

$ 98

Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee

$ 40

$ -

0.0%

$ 98

$ 75

$ 23

30.7%

$ 98

Mt. Lake Laboratory Use Fee

$ 84

$ 2

2.4%

$ 86

$ 84

$ 2

2.4%

$ 86

Mt. Lake Non-UVa Researcher (per week): Senior Investigators

$ 244

$ 5

2.0%

$ 249

$ 244

$ 5

2.0%

$ 249

Co-Investigators and Graduate Students

$ 64

$ 1

1.6%

$ 65

$ 64

$ 1

1.6%

$ 65

2003 New Student Orientation Fee

$ 185

$ 5

2.7%

$ 190

$ 185

$ 5

2.7%

$ 190

(The Orientation Fee will be rolled into the total tuition and fee bill for first year and transfer students in the first year of enrollment.)

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the Academic Division be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 2003:

OTHER:Other contracted course and cooperative program tuition and required fee rates, including tuition for specialized graduate and professional credit courses, approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.

APPROVAL OF ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES FOR 2003-04 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2003-04Revised

2003-04Revised

Percent ofIncrease

2003-04Proposed

2003-04Revised

2003-04Revised

Percent ofIncrease

2003-04Proposed

University Transit

$ 91

$ 10

11.0%

$ 101

$ 91

$ 10

11.0%

$ 101

Escort Services

$ 5

$ -

0.0%

$ 5

$ 5

$ -

0.0%

$ 5

Recreational Facilities

$ 118

$ 21

17.8%

$ 139

$ 118

$ 21

17.8%

$ 139

Auxiliary Debt Service

$ 158

$ -

0.0%

$ 158

$ 158

$ -

0.0%

$ 158

Athletics

$ 325

$ 63

19.4%

$ 388

$ 325

$ 63

19.4%

$ 388

Student Health

$ 294

$ 4

1.4%

$ 298

$ 294

$ 4

1.4%

$ 298

Newcomb Hall Operating

$ 106

$ 3

2.8%

$ 109

$ 106

$ 3

2.8%

$109

Student Programming

$ 26

$ -

0.0%

$ 26

$26

$ -

0.0%

$ 26

WTJU

$ 6

$ -

0.0%

$ 6

$ 6

$ -

0.0%

$ 6

Debt Service

$ -

$ -

0.0%

$ -

$ -

$ 50

n/a

$ 50

Capital Renewal Fee

$ 24

$ -

0.0%

$ 24

$ 24

$ -

0.0%

$ 24

Arts Fee

$ 12

$ -

0.0%

$ 12

$ 12

$ -

0.0%

$ 12

Technology Fee

$ 45

$ -

0.0%

$ 45

$ 45

$-

0.0%

$ 45

E&G Facilities Debt Service

$ 25

$ 5

20.0%

$ 30

$25

$ 5

20.0%

$30

TOTAL FOR ALL STUDENTS

$ 1,235

$ 106

8.6%

$ 1,341

$1,235

$ 156

12.6%

$1,391

RESOLVED that, the fee component of the tuition and required fees be established, effective July 1, 2003, in the amount of $1,341 for in-state students and $1,391 for out-of-state students; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the fee component be allocated for the 2003-04 Session as follows:

APPROVAL OF SPECIAL SESSION FEE RATE
------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2002-03Revised

Amount of Increase

Percent ofIncrease

2003-04Proposed

2002-03Revised

Amount of Increase

Percent ofIncrease

2003-04Proposed

University Transit

$ 18

$ 4

22.2%

$ 22

$ 18

$ 4

22.2%

$ 22

Escort Services

$ 2

$ -

0.0%

$ 2

$ 2

$ -

0.0%

$ 2

Recreational Facilities

$ 21

$ 1

4.8%

$ 22

$ 21

$ 1

4.8%

$ 22

Student Health (Summer Session only)

$ 96

$ 1

1.0%

$ 97

$ 96

$ 1

1.0%

$ 97

Newcomb Hall Operating

$ 20

$ 1

5.0%

$ 21

$ 20

$ 1

5.0%

$ 21

WTJU

$ -

$ 1

n/a

$ 1

$ -

$ 1

n/a

$ 1

Debt Service

$ -

$ -

n/a

$ -

$ -

$ 5

n/a

$ 5

Classroom Renewal Fee

$ 6

$ -

0.0%

$ 6

$ 6

$ -

0.0%

$ 6

Technology Fee

$ 5

$ -

0.0%

$ 5

$ 5

$ -

0.0%

$ 5

Arts Fee

$ 6

$ -

0.0%

$ 6

$ 6

$ -

0.0%

$ 6

E&G Facilities Debt Service

$ 1

$ 1

100.0%

$ 2

$ 1

$ 1

100.0%

$ 2

SPECIAL SESSION TOTAL

$ 175

$ 9

5.1%

$ 184

$ 175

$ 14

8.0%

$ 189

RESOLVED that the special session fees for the Academic Division be increased as follows, effective beginning with the fall session of 2003:

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2002-03 Annualized Tuition

Amountof BaseIncrease

Increase for Salary & HealthcareCosts

Percent of Increase

2003-2004 Proposed

2002-03 Annualized Tuition

Amountof BaseIncrease

Increase for Salary & HealthcareCosts

Percent of Increase

2003-2004 Proposed

Full-time Students (12 hrs or more per semester)

Tuition and Required E&G Fees

$ 2,504

$ 125

$ 52

7.1%

$ 2,681

$ 10,264

$ 1,303

$ 52

13.2%

$ 11,619

Auxiliary Fees

$ 1,740

$ 87

$ 23

6.3%

$ 1,850

$ 1,740

$ 87

$ 23

6.3%

$ 1,850

Total Tuition and Required Fees

$ 4,244

$ 212

$ 75

6.8%

$ 4,531

$ 12,004

$ 1,390

$ 75

12.2%

$ 13,469

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2002-03Approved

Amount ofIncrease

Percent ofIncrease

2003-2004 Proposed

2002-03Approved

Amount ofIncrease

Percent ofIncrease

2003-2004 Proposed

Other Charges

Part-time Students (<12 hours per sem.)

$84

$24

28.6%

$108

$405

$70

17.3%

$475

Off-Campus Instruction per hour

$84

$24

28.6%

$108

$284

$49

17.3%

$ 333

Non-Credit Courses per unit

$37

$10

27.0%

$47

$123

$21

17.1%

$144

Application Fee

$25

$0

0.0%

$25

$25

$0

0.0%

$25

Graduation Fee

$50

$0

0.0%

$50

$50

$0

0.0%

$50

A Registration Fee for part-time students will be $5 per semester hour.

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the University of Virginia’s College at Wise be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 2003:

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the tuition rates listed below:

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to approve reduced tuition rates for residents of Kentucky who live in counties that are within a 50-mile radius of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise and who are enrolled at the College in accordance with Section 23-7.4:2.F. of the Code of Virginia.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR DR. EDWIN L. KENDIG, JR.
------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Edwin Lawrence Kendig, Jr., was born in Victoria in 1911, and after having received a B.A. from Hampden-Sydney College, took his M.D. from the University in 1936; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Kendig did specialized training in pediatrics and became an acknowledged authority in the field, wrote a basic pediatrics textbook and was the second pediatrician, and the first Virginian, to receive the Distinguished Service Award from the American Medical Association; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Kendig was a beloved pediatrician in Richmond, a professor of pediatrics at the Medical College of Virginia, chief of staff at Bon Secours/St. Mary’s Hospital in Richmond, and president of several national and state medical societies, as well as the Richmond Academy of Medicine; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Kendig was appointed to the Board of Visitors by Governor Almond in 1961 and served until 1972; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Kendig died in Richmond on February 8, 2003;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors takes note of the remarkable and distinguished career of Edwin Lawrence Kendig, Jr., and his devoted service to the Board and the University, expresses profound sorrow at his passing and extends condolences to Mrs. Kendig and her daughters.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR MR. FRANCIS L. BERKELEY, JR.
----------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Francis Lewis Berkeley, Jr., a native of Albemarle County, was born in 1911 and took his B.A. in 1934 and his M.A. in 1940, both from the University; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Berkeley was appointed the University’s first Curator of Manuscripts in 1938, a position to which he returned after four years of service in the United States Navy during the Second World War; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Berkeley, as Curator of Manuscripts, devised an indispensable cataloguing system, began a central archives for the University and performed an immense service to the Commonwealth and to the University by retrieving, cataloguing, saving and copying Virginia manuscripts and documents, particularly of the colonial period; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Berkeley and the late Frederick D. Nichols, Professor of Architecture, led the effort to restore the Rotunda to its original Jeffersonian design, and

WHEREAS, Mr. Berkeley served as Secretary to the Board of Visitors under President Darden from 1954 to 1958 and as executive assistant to President Darden and President Shannon; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Berkeley died in Charlottesville on February 19, 2003;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors takes note of the leadership and years of devoted and distinguished service to the University of Francis Lewis Berkeley, Jr., deeply regrets his passing and expresses its condolences to his family.

REPORT ON ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEERESOLUTION OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, AUTHORIZATION OF ISSUANCE OF UP TO $200,000,000 OF GENERAL REVENUE PLEDGE BONDSRECITALS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the following resolution approving a bond issue, adopted by the Executive Committee on March 5:

WHEREAS, Chapter 9, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the "Virginia Code"), establishes a public corporation under the name and style of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") which is governed by a Board of Visitors (the "Board"); and

WHEREAS, Chapter 3, Title 23 of the Virginia Code (the "Act") classifies the University as an educational institution, declares it to be a public body and constitutes it a governmental instrumentality for the dissemination of education; and

WHEREAS, the Act empowers the University, with the consent and approval of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Commonwealth") and the Governor of the Commonwealth to build, construct, reconstruct, erect, extend, better, equip and improve any building, facility, addition, extension or improvement of a capital nature required by or convenient for the purposes of the University and to borrow money and make, issue and sell bonds of the University for any such purposes, including the refinancing of any such facilities, such bonds to be issued and sold through the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth (the "Treasury Board"); and

WHEREAS, the Act further authorizes the University to pledge to the payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds any monies available for the use of the University including, but not limited to, and subject to guidelines promulgated by the Secretary of Finance of the Commonwealth (the "Secretary of Finance"), monies appropriated to the University from the general funds of the Commonwealth or from nongeneral funds, without regard to the source of such monies, and which are not required by law or by previous binding contract to be devoted to some other purpose; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to a resolution adopted on February 1, 2003, the Board determined to finance (i) the construction and equipping of an addition to the Aquatic & Fitness Center consisting of a gymnasium complex, fitness and weightlifting areas and the Engineering/Science chiller plant; (ii) the renovation of the Cancer Center; (iii) the construction and equipping of the Emmet Street Parking Structure; (iv) the construction, renovation and equipping of a renovation and expansion Project at the University's Hospital; (v) the acquisition of the School of Medicine research building; (vi) the construction and equipping of the University's new sports arena; (vii) the construction of a replacement of Observatory Hill Dining Facility; and (viii) the refunding of all or a portion of the outstanding principal amount of (a) the University's General Revenue Pledge Bonds, Series 1993A, (b) the University's General Revenue Pledge Bonds, Series 1993B, and (c) the outstanding principal amount of the Commonwealth of Virginia Higher Educational Institutions Bonds (Series 1992B) issued to finance certain dining facilities at the University (collectively, the "Project"), and delegated to the Executive Committee of the Board the power to approve the final terms of such financing, within certain stated parameters; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to a resolution adopted on February 1, 2003, the Board determined to facilitate the financing or refinancing from time to time of capital projects of the University on a short-term basis through the issuance of short-term commercial paper in an aggregate outstanding principal amount at any time not to exceed $100,000,000 (the "Program") and delegated to the Executive Committee of the Board the power to approve the final terms of such financing, within certain stated parameters; and

WHEREAS, for the purpose of providing funds to finance or refinance the acquisition, construction and equipping of the Project, the Executive Committee of the Board, pursuant to the powers granted it under Section 23-75 of the Virginia Code, has determined to adopt the attached Resolution (the "Series 2003A Resolution") authorizing the issuance of general revenue pledge bonds of the University as Series 2003A Bonds (the "Series 2003A Bonds"), and a second Resolution (the "Series 2003B Resolution") authorizing the issuance of general revenue bonds of the University as Series 2003B (the "Series 2003B Bonds" and together with the Series 2003A Bonds, the "Series 2003 Bonds"); and

WHEREAS, for the purpose of providing funds to facilitate the short-term financing of capital projects, the Executive Committee of the Board, pursuant to the powers granted it under Section 23-75 of the Virginia Code, has determined to adopt a resolution (the “Commercial Paper Series 2003A and 2003B Resolution”) authorizing the issuance of general revenue pledge notes of the University as Commercial Paper Series 2003A and 2003B notes (the “Commercial Paper Series 2003A and 2003B Notes”); and

WHEREAS, the Board anticipates that the bonds will be secured by a general revenue pledge of the University and not be in any way a debt of the Commonwealth and shall not create or constitute any indebtedness or obligation of the Commonwealth, either legal, moral or otherwise;

RESOLVED that the Executive Committee of the University on behalf of the Board, approves the following: The Bond Series 2003A Resolution, the Bond Series 2003B Resolution, and the Commercial Paper Series 2003A and 2003B Resolution.

APPROVAL OF THE REPORT ON THE SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period August 1, 2002, through February 28, 2003, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Elections of Chairholders(b) Change in the Change of Title of Ms. Lisa A. Reilly(c) Special Salary Actions of Chairholders(d) Retirements of Chairholders(e) Resignation of ChairholderPROMOTIONCANCELLATION OF THE PROMOTION OF MR. GEORGE S. (YIORGOS) ALLAYANNISSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSCHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE SALARY ACTION OF DR. MARGARET E. MOHRMANNCHANGE IN THE SALARY ACTION FOR MS. RACHEL MOSTRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTSAPPOINTMENTSCHANGE IN THE APPOINTMENT OF MR. MICHAEL G. GLASGOWRE-APPOINTMENTSELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITIELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSORS EMERITIDEATHS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the change of title of Ms. Lisa A. Reilly from Horace W. Goldsmith Distinguished Teaching Professor in the Humanities to Professor of Architectural History, effective August 24, 2002, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated January 31–February 1, 2003, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the following person is promoted:

RESOLVED that the promotion of Mr. George S. (Yiorgos) Allayannis from Assistant Professor of Business Administration, to Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective November 25, 2002, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated January 31–February 1, 2003, be cancelled. Mr. Allayannis’ promotion is recorded correctly in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated May 31–June 1, 2002.

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

RESOLVED that the title of the special salary action of Dr. Margaret E. Mohrmann, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective August 25, 2001, at an annual salary of $110,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated January 25-26, 2002, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the special salary action for Ms. Rachel Most, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective November 25, 2002, at an annual salary of $63,300, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated January 31–February 1, 2003, be changed to read as follows:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirements were announced:

The following appointments were announced:

The President announced that the title of Mr. Michael G. Glasgow as Director, Office of Sponsored Programs, for two years, effective July 24, 2002, as shown in the appointment section of the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated January 31–February 1, 2003, be changed to read as follows:

The following re-appointments were announced:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Associate Professor Emeritus:

The following deaths were announced:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISEELECTIONSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSAPPOINTMENTRETIREMENTSELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITAELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following person is elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

The following appointment was announced:

The following retirements were announced:

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Professor Emerita:

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Professor Emeritus:

\- - - - - - - - - - - - -

The Rector thanked Mr. Lovelace, whose term as Student Member would expire at the end of the meeting, for his service to the Board and to the University. He spoke of Mr. Lovelace’s “very substantial contributions made to the Board’s deliberations on a great many matters.”

Finally, the Rector recognized Mr. Saunders who wished to make a statement for the record.

“At this moment, with the nation at war and the Board of Visitors gathered in the Rotunda – the epicenter of the democratic values and principles espoused by Mr. Jefferson – the Visitors, on behalf of the University, express their appreciation to the men and women of our Armed Forces for the courage and valor exhibited by them in the service of this great nation.

It is imperative that all of us in the University community keep in our collective memories the sacrifices they and their families have made for all Americans in protecting the nation and the values and principles that are its foundation.”

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 11:00 a.m.

ACTIONS BY BOARD COMMITTEESBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE, FEBRUARY 24TH
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following actions were taken by Committees of the Board since the last meeting of the full Board. They do not require the action of the full Board and are listed here simply as a matter of record:

• SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE CAMPBELL HALL EAST ADDITION

RESOLVED that the schematic and preliminary design, dated February 24, 2003, and prepared by SMBW Architects of Richmond, for the Campbell Hall East Addition Project, is approved for further development and construction.

• SCHEMATIC AND PRELIMINARY DESIGN, 15TH STREET CLOSING, AND BUILDING DEMOLITIONS FOR THE SOUTH PARKING GARAGE ADDITION

WHEREAS, the Buildings and Grounds Committee has reviewed the schematic and preliminary design, dated February 24, 2003, and prepared by Walker Parking Consultants of Wayne, Pennsylvania, for the South Parking Garage Addition; and

WHEREAS, construction of the Addition will require the closing of a section of 15th Street; and

WHEREAS, construction of the Addition will require the demolition of six residential buildings at 211 15th Street (FAACS Building Number 209-4004), 430 Monroe Lane (FAACS Building Number 209-4006), 435 Monroe Lane (FAACS Building Number 209-4002), 442 Monroe Lane (FAACS Building Number 209- 4003), 444 Monroe Lane (FAACS Building Number 209-4005), and 444 ½ Monroe Lane (FAACS Building Number 209-4007); and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources;

RESOLVED, that the South Parking Garage Addition is approved for further design and development; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the proposal to close a section of 15th Street is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the removal of the six residential buildings on 15th Street and Monroe Lane (FAACS Building Numbers: 209-4002, 209-4003, 209-4004, 209-4005, 209-4006, and 209-4007) is approved by the Board of Visitors pending approval by the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the closing of 15th Street and to the removal of the aforementioned buildings, and that the said officer ensure that the required reports regarding the building removals are sent to the Department of General Services.

• DESIGN FOR THE BASEBALL STADIUM ENTRANCE GATE

RESOLVED the design, dated February 24, 2003, and prepared by VMDO Architects of Charlottesville, for the Baseball Stadium Entrance Gate, is approved for further development and construction.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, MARCH 5THMEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD, MARCH 13TH
------------------------------------------------------------------------

• See supra, PAGES 6394-6396 of these Minutes.

• CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS

NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFREAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

STATUS CHANGES TO THE CLINICAL STAFFRESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFF
------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status changes in clinical privileges for the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

PRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
----------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RENEWED PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSRESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

BOARD OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY, MARCH 20TH
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Approved an investment of $25 million in Natural Gas Partners VII

Approved an investment of $25 million in Fir Tree Partners

Approved an investment of $50 million in Pequot Navigator

Approved an investment of $3 million in Sequoia Capital XI

Approved an additional $35 million investment in SAB Capital Management

Approved an additional $15 million investment in Raptor Global

Approved an additional $15 million investment in Eminence Capital

Approved an additional $15 million investment in Pequot Healthcare

Approved an additional $15 million in Discovery Capital Management

Approved an additional $10 million in Intrepid Capital Management.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: April 3-5, 2003

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session – as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia – only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from considered in closed session.

ATTACHMENTApril 3, 2003M E M O R A N D U M
------------------------------------------

TO:

The Board of Visitors:

Thomas J. Bliley, Jr

Don R. Pippin

William G. Crutchfield Jr.

Terence P. Ross

Susan Y. Dorsey

Thomas A. Saunders, III

Thomas F. Farrell, II

Warren M. Thompson

Charles L. Glazer

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr.

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

Georgia M. Willis

Mark J. Kington

John O. Wynne

Lewis F. Payne, Jr.

Herbert T. Lovelace, Jr.

John R. M. Rodney

FROM:

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

SUBJECT:

Special Committee on Diversity

cc:

Mr. John T. Casteen, III

Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr.

Mr. Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

TO: The Board of Visitors: Thomas J. Bliley, Jr Don R. Pippin William G. Crutchfield Jr. Terence P. Ross Susan Y. Dorsey Thomas A. Saunders, III Thomas F. Farrell, II Warren M. Thompson Charles L. Glazer E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr. William H. Goodwin, Jr. Georgia M. Willis Mark J. Kington John O. Wynne Lewis F. Payne, Jr. Herbert T. Lovelace, Jr. John R. M. Rodney FROM: Gordon F. Rainey, Jr. SUBJECT: Special Committee on Diversity

On the recommendation of the Special Committee on Governance, I am hereby creating a Special Committee on Diversity.

In coordination with the President's Commission on Diversity, I am asking the Special Committee generally to review diversity initiatives at the University. More specifically, the Special Committee is charged with an evaluation of efforts to promote diversity among students, faculty and administrators as well as with residents of the City of Charlottesville and Albemarle County. The Special Committee will meet with representatives of these groups, and others it deems appropriate, and will report at the Board's planning retreat in July on at least the following matters:

The Special Committee will be chaired by Warren Thompson and will consist of 5 members. The other members will be appointed later this month when Board committee assignments are made.

GFR,JR:tj
