---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2003'
month: 7
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

July 11, 2003

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2009

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS JULY 11-12, 2003
-------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

University of Virginia Medical Center Legislative Proposal

6493

Approval of Architect Selection for the Performing Arts Center

6497

Approval of Architect Selection for the New Residence Hall at The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

6497

Approval of Engineer Selection for a Term Contract for Traffic Engineering Services

6497

Approval of Architect Selections for Term Contractsfor Health System Projects

6497

Approval of Engineer Selections for Term Contracts for Mechanical, Electrical and Plumbing Projects

6497

Approval of a Permanent Easement for Virginia Electric and Power Company for a Power Line on UniversityProperty at the East End of the Emmet Street Parking Garage

6498

TENTATIVE MINUTES - SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS July 11-12, 2003
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met in Retreat on Friday, July 11, and Saturday, July 12, 2003, at Upper Brandon in Prince George County. All save two of the sessions were held in Open Session; all were led by the Rector, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr. The following Members attended: Thomas J. Bliley, Jr., William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, Thomas F. Farrell, II, Charles L. Glazer, William H. Goodwin, Jr., Mark J. Kington, Lewis F. Payne, Don R. Pippin, Thomas A. Saunders, III, Warren M. Thompson, E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., Ms. Georgia M. Willis, John O. Wynne, and John R.M. Rodney.

Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Ms. Amy D. Cronin, Ms. Carol Wood, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes. John A. Blackburn attended the evening session on July 11th.

The Rector opened the meeting at 2:00 p.m., on Friday, July 11th, with a very brief business session before the beginning of the Retreat proper.

The Board considered and approved a resolution authorizing the University to submit to Richmond for consideration by the General Assembly in the 2004 Session a proposal that would exempt the Medical Center from State information technology oversight requirements which were enacted recently.

The follow resolution was adopted:

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER LEGISLATIVE PROPOSAL
----------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has reviewed a proposed legislative action to amend Section 2.2-2001 of the Code of Virginia to provide autonomy for the University of Virginia Medical Center from state centralized information technology planning, oversight and procurement requirements; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors concludes that the proposed changes are prudent and in the best interest of the Medical Center;

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to seek legislation accomplishing the above-described purpose.

Mr. Crutchfield, as Chair of the Board’s Committee on The University of Virginia’s College at Wise, reported changes in the Wise Advisory Board: Mr. William Sturgill has retired as Chair and Mr. Jim Gott has been elected in his stead. Ms. Marcia Gilliam has been elected as Vice- Chair.

The Secretary reported that Dr. Vaughan, as Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board, was authorized by the MCOB at its May meeting to approve credentialing and recredentialing actions when approval is needed between meetings of the MCOB. Dr. Vaughan approved a set of actions on July 1st, and the listing is appended to these Minutes as Attachment A. No action by the Board of Visitors is required and the listing is in these Minutes simply as a matter of record.

The first two items on the Retreat Agenda had to do with the operations of the Board, and were grouped under two headings: “How can the Board of Visitors add greatest value to the University?” and “What is – and is not – a Board issue and why?” Discussion on these was done in Open Session and lasted from shortly after 2:00 p.m., until 4:00 p.m., when the Board recessed.

In discussion, Members concurred that the new format of Board meetings where much of the Board’s work has been pushed down to the committee level, is the correct approach but that refinements are needed. Thursday and Friday of Board meeting weekends should be reserved for committee meetings. The President suggested that Members attend conferences and programs organized by the Association of Governing Boards of Universities and Colleges (AGB). There was a feeling that the Board needs to be concerned more about academic affairs, recognizing, of course, that there is a line in such matters beyond which the Board should not go.

The Board resumed its deliberations at 4:15 p.m., with a report from the Special Committee on Diversity made by the Committee Chair, Mr. Thompson. Mr. Thompson presented the following draft mission statement:

DRAFT MISSION STATEMENT
-----------------------

The mission of the Special Committee on Diversity of the Board of Visitors is the encouragement and support of an atmosphere at the University that ensures that the diverse elements of the University of Virginia community are treated equally and fairly. The accomplishment of this mission is essential to creating an educational experience for our students to prepare them for productive and responsible citizenship in the world beyond this community.

The Special Committee defines diversity to include race and ethnicity, gender, disability status, sexual orientation, religious and national origin, socio-economic status, and other aspects of individual experience and identity.

Board Members suggested several changes and the Chair and the Board Secretary will work these into a new version of the mission statement. Ms. Cronin, the President’s Chief of Staff, reported on the organization of the Commission on Diversity and Equity, which is being appointed by the President.

Mr. Farrell, the Vice Rector and Chair of the Special Committee on Governance, reported on matters considered by the Committee over the last several months.

The Board recessed for dinner at 6:15 p.m.

The Board resumed its meeting at 8:30 p.m., and after adopting the following motion, went into Executive Session:

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss with General Counsel the two recent Supreme Court decisions concerning admissions and his report on pending litigation risk affecting the University, as provided for in Section 2.2- 3711 (A) (7) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board resumed in Open Session and after adopting the following resolution certifying that its discussions had been held in accordance with the exemptions afforded by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, adjourned at 9:45 p.m.:

Mr. Rector, I move that we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member’s knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

The Board resumed in Open Session at 8:45 a.m., on Saturday, April 12th. There was a short business session during which the Board ratified its meeting dates for 2004: February 5, 6 and 7; April 15, 16 and 17; June 10, 11, and 12; and September 30, and October 1 and 2. The Retreat was set for July 30 and 31 at Montpelier in Orange County.

From 8:50 a.m., to 9:00, the Buildings and Grounds Committee met concurrently with the full Board to consider six Consent Agenda resolutions: three of these were for architect selections, two for the selection of engineers and the last for an easement. The resolutions are listed below (see also the separate Minutes of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, July 12, 2003); all were approved by the full Board.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Barton Myers Associates, Inc., of Los Angeles, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Performing Arts Center.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE NEW RESIDENCE HALL AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Ken Ross Architects, Inc., of Johnson City, Tennessee, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the new residence hall at The University of Virginia’s College at Wise.

APPROVAL OF ENGINEER SELECTION FOR A TERM CONTRACT FOR TRAFFIC ENGINEERING SERVICES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Kimley Horn and Associates, Inc., of Chesapeake, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services initiated under the term contract for traffic engineering services.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTIONS FOR TERM CONTRACTS FOR HEALTH SYSTEM PROJECTS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Smith Group, Inc., of Washington, D.C., and Hillier of Washington, D.C., are approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services initiated under the term contracts for Health System projects.

APPROVAL OF ENGINEER SELECTIONS FOR TERM CONTRACTS FOR MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL AND PLUMBING PROJECTS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Carter Burgess of Raleigh, and Affiliated Engineers of Chapel Hill, are approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services initiated under the term contracts for mechanical, electrical and plumbing projects.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR VIRGINIA ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY FOR A POWER LINE ON UNIVERSITY PROPERTY AT THE EAST END OF THE EMMET STREET PARKING GARAGE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, dated July 12, 2003, to Virginia Electric and Power Company for a power line at the Emmet Street Parking Garage on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easement.

The Board resumed, in Open Session, in Retreat at 9:00 to discuss faculty compensation. In preparation for this discussion at the Retreat, the Finance Committee met on July 7th, to consider a report by Mr. Sandridge on faculty compensation questions raised at the June Board meeting. A memorandum summarizing the Committee’s discussions and Mr. Sandridge’s report was distributed to the Board at the Retreat and formed the basis for discussion (a copy of the memorandum is appended as Attachment B).

The Board is concerned about faculty and staff morale and the effects of salary freezes, brought on by the State budget crisis, on both salary and retirement plan accumulations. There was strong consensus that compensation of faculty and staff must be competitive with the University’s national peer institutions. There was agreement, however, that more information is needed. The administration is to collect this, under the direction of the President and Mr. Sandridge, and report to the Board at the October meeting. The Educational Policy Committee will consider some of these questions at its meeting on August 29th.

Following this discussion, there was a brief report by the President on the expansion of the Atlantic Coast Conference.

The Board recessed at 10:25 a.m., and resumed at 10:35. On motion, the Board then went into Executive Session.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss the performance of specific employees of the University as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(1) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board resumed in Open Session at 12:00 noon, after voting on the following resolution certifying that its Executive Session discussions had been conducted in accordance with the exemptions granted by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act:

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session – as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia – only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration in closed session.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 12:05 p.m.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: July 11-12, 2003

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session – as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia – only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration in closed session.

ATTACHMENT AMEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA July, 2003
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

RECOMMENDED CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS 1. NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF2. LOCUM TENENS APPOINTMENT TO THE CLINICAL STAFF3. REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF4. SECONDARY REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF5. RESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFF6. PRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS7. RENEWED PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS8. SECONDARY APPOINTMENT RENEWED PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS9. RESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that pursuant to the delegation of authority contained in the May 8, 2003, Resolution of the Medical Center Operating Board, the undersigned Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board hereby approves the following Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions as specifically set forth below:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the appointment as a locum tenens for appointment to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioner is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for secondary reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioner are approved:

MacKnight, John M., M.D. , Orthopedic Surgeon in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery; Attending Staff Status; Period of Secondary Reappointment: September 1, 2003, through August 31, 2005; Privileged in Orthopedic Surgery.

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the secondary appointment renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professional is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

ATTACHMENT B BOARD OF VISITORS RETREAT Report on Faculty Compensation 9:00-10:00 a.m. – Saturday, July 12, 2003 PURPOSE OF THE RETREAT DISCUSSION:REPORT ON RESULTS OF JULY 7, 2003 FINANCE COMMITTEE MEETING:BROADER DISCUSSION LEADING TO A CONCLUSION ON FACULTY/STAFF COMPENSATION:NEXT STEPS:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1) Report on results of July 7 Finance Committee meeting do not intend to arrive at a decision on compensation (salaries and benefits) during the Retreat; and 2) consider a process and timeline for a broader review of relevant topics leading to a policy statement on faculty compensation.

The Finance Committee asked the administration during the June 2003 Board meeting to determine the cost of moving faculty salaries to the 60th percentile of the SCHEV rankings; and how to provide the funding. During the July 7 meeting, the Finance Committee a) heard a report that supplemental increases of approximately 3.5% each year for three years, in addition to assumed state authorized increases of 2.25%, are needed to achieve the 60th percentile of the SCHEV rankings and b) received confirmation that funding could be provided from a combination of sources. However, to the extent that the increases were funded from local sources, the actual SCHEV percentile ranking would not be impacted. The Committee also received information on companion salary improvement programs for administrative and professional faculty and classified staff.

During the course of the July 7 Finance Committee discussion, it became apparent that there are a series of important questions that should be addressed before a decision is made to commit University funds for special compensation increases. The questions deal with priorities, justification, risk/reward, return on investment/relative value added and strategies, with the objective of developing a Board of Visitors policy statement on faculty and staff compensation and a timeline to address the issue.

A series of questions that reflect the Finance Committee’s discussion on July 7, is provided below as a basis for further consideration of this topic during the Retreat:

Each of the questions and discussion topics require data collection and analysis. Each topic calls for careful deliberation. The purpose of the discussion at the Retreat is to identify additional information needed to support the decision process, highlight good quality assurance practices and note processes that should be strengthened.

Many of the questions listed relate to academic priorities, programs and opportunities. It is suggested that the Rector consider asking the Educational Policy Committee (or some combination of Committees) to undertake a review and assessment of the underlying issues with the objective of having the Educational Policy Committee provide a status report and, if appropriate, recommendations to the full Board of Visitors at the October 2003, meeting.
