---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2004'
month: 2
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

February 05, 2004

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2008

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

August 4, 2004MEMORANDUMRESOLUTION ON INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICESAPPROVAL OF PROPERTY PURCHASE2003-2004 SALARY FOR PRESIDENT JOHN T. CASTEEN, III2003-2004 Salary for Chancellor Steven H. Kaplan
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TO:

The Board of Visitors:

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector

Thomas F. Farrell, II, Vice Rector

Don R. Pippin

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

Terence P. Ross

Susan Y. Dorsey

Thomas A. Saunders, III

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Warren M. Thompson

W. Heywood Fralin

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr.

Glynn D. Key

Georgia M. Willis

Mark J. Kington

John O. Wynne

Lewis F. Payne

James W. Head

FROM:

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

SUBJECT:

Correction to the Minutes of the February, 2004, Meeting of the Board of Visitors

President John T. Casteen, III

Actual as of 11/25/02

Proposed as of 11/25/03

Percent Increase

State

$148,089

$151,421

2.25%

Bonus (5%)

0

7,404

\-

Total Salary, excludinglocal Supplement

148,089

158,825

7.25%

Local supplement

181,725

223,579

23.0%

Bonus

0

9,086

\-

Total local supplement

181,725

232,665

28.0%

Total Salary

329,814

375,000

13.7%

Deferred Compensation

115,000

125,000

8.7%

Total Bonus

0

16,490

\-

Actual as of 11/25/02

Proposed as of 11/25/03

Percent Increase

State

$109,800

$112,130\*

2.12%

Bonus

0

5,490

\-

Total Salary, excludinglocal Supplement

109,800

117,620

7.12%

Local supplement

70,200

75,070

6.94%

Bonus

0

3,510

Total local supplement

70,200

78,580

11.94%

Total Salary

180,000

187,200

4.0%

Total Bonus

0

9,000

\-

Copies to:

President John T. Casteen, III

Vice President Leonard W. Sandridge

The Minutes of the February 5-7, 2004, meeting of the Board of Visitors should be corrected as follows: The resolution on Investment Management Services, which was approved by the Board, was left out of the Minutes. The resolution is as follows:

WHEREAS, the Special Committee on Governance of the Board of Visitors, in consultation with the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University, and the University's General Counsel, recommends the procurement of investment management services for the benefit of the University of Virginia;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves the recommended procurement of investment management services, which would be provided by the University contracting with an affiliated non- profit entity established and hereby approved for such purposes;

MEMORANDUM Page Two August 4, 2004

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Board directs and authorizes the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, in consultation with the Vice Rector and the General Counsel, to undertake, execute and approve any and all actions as may be necessary or advisable to implement this procurement of investment management services. This is to include the authority to negotiate and execute on behalf of the University any contracts or other agreements as may be necessary or advisable in the best interests of the University, in keeping with applicable state law and University policy.

Also, the actions of the Executive Committee taken on November 22, 2003, (these actions are shown in the Minutes of the Executive Committee meeting of that date) and mentioned on page 6628 of the February, 2004, Minutes, specify that these actions are shown supra in the Minutes. They in fact are not shown in the Minutes and therefore should be listed as Attachment B. They are reproduced as follows:

WHEREAS, the University has identified strategically valuable property adjacent to University property on Ivy Road that may be available for purchase; and

WHEREAS, the acquisition of the property will address current and future needs for additional space for offices, residence halls, and other uses;

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, with the concurrence of the Chair of the Finance Committee, is authorized to: 1) negotiate appropriate purchase prices for property on Ivy Road that is adjacent to University property; and 2) execute, or authorize execution of any and all contracts and other documents pertaining to the acquisition of such property by the University or by the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation.

MEMORANDUM Page Three August 4, 2004

RESOLVED that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia approve the following 2003-2004 salary recommendation for the President of the University of Virginia:

And finally, the Executive Committee on November 22, 2003, charged the Administration with setting the 2003-2004 salary of the Chancellor of The University of Virginia's College at Wise. On December 17th, this was set as follows:

MEMORANDUM Page Four August 4, 2004

\*Per the Appropriations Act, SK's state salary next year has to be $112,130.

AGG:jb

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS FEBRUARY 5-7, 2004
---------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Approval of the Minutes of the October 3-4 Meeting

6577

Resolution for Additions to the Agenda

6577

Resolution for Authorization of Access UVA

6578

Resolution on Gifts and Grants

6581

Establishment of the LaBrosse-Levinson Distinguished Professorship in Religion, Culture and Social Theory

6583

Establishment of the Joseph and Frances Larner Professorship in Pharmacology in the School of Medicine

6583

Establishment of the Justice Thurgood Marshall Research Professorship in Law

6584

Approval of Research Plan

6586

Architect Selection for the University Center

6587

Request for a Permanent Easement for the University of Virginia Across Property Owned by the Virginia Public Building Authority and the Virginia State Department of Forestry

6587

Approval of a Permanent Easement for the City of Charlottesville for a Natural Gas Line on Crispell Drive

6587

Request for a Permanent Easement for the University of Virginia Across the Montesano Property Owned by the University of Virginia Foundation

6588

Approval of a Permanent Easement for the University of Virginia Foundation for an Entrance Drive to the North Grounds Connector

6588

Approval of a Permanent Easement for Mr. William Kelso for an Access Drive at the Fan Mountain Observatory

6588

PAGE

Approval to Remove Storage Building at the Davis Farm – Vivarium Complex on Route 20 South

6589

Approval to Remove the Max Kade German House at 581 Brandon Avenue

6589

Authorization of Acquisition and Issuance of Debt Financing of the Fontaine Clinics Building

6590

Approval of Schematic Design and Building Demolitions for a New Residence Hall at the College at Wise

6594

Approval of the Site for the Relocation of Varsity Hall

6595

Approval of Policy Revision for Buildings and Grounds Review

6595

Approval of Mission and Desired Accomplishments/Goals, The University of Virginia's College at Wise

6597

Ratification of Additional 2004-2006 Legislative Amendments for the Academic Division, the Medical Center and The University of Virginia's College at Wise

6598

Approval of Student Housing Rates for 2004-2005

6599

Approval of 2004-2005 Tuition and Fees for Executive Programs Tuition

6603

Approval of Changes to Student Activity Fee Guidelines

6603

Approval to Establish the Ph.D. Degree in Experimental Pathology in the School of Medicine

6604

Approval of Election of the Honorable Slade Gorton to the Miller Center Governing Council

6604

Memorial Resolution for Mr. Charles L. Brown

6604

Memorial Resolution for Mr. Robert L. Kellogg

6605

Approval of Summary of Audit Findings

6606

PAGE

Approval of Transfer of Wertland and 14th Street Properties to the University of Virginia Foundation

6606

Jerome Holland Scholarship Fund

6607

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

6608

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Election of Chairholder

6611

Change in the Title of the Chairholder

6611

Special Salary Action of Chairholders

6611

Retirement of Chairholder

6612

Resignation of Chairholder

6612

Election of Professor Emeritus of Chairholder

6612

Death of Chairholders

6612

Promotions

6612

Special Salary Actions

6613

Change in the Title of the Salary Action for Dr. Zhenqi Liu

6618

Resignations

6618

Retirements

6620

Appointments

6620

Re-Appointments

6621

Re-election of Dr. Robert E. Reynolds as Vice President and Chief Information Officer

6621

Re-election of Ms. Colette Sheehy as Vice President for Management and Budget

6621

Election of Professors Emeriti

6621

Deaths

6622

The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Elections

6623

Action Relating to Chairholder

Special Salary Action of Chairholder

6623

Special Salary Actions

6624

Resignation

6625

Consideration of an Addendum to the Agenda

6626

Resolution Naming the Goodwin Bridge

6626

Resolution Commending William H. Goodwin, Jr.

6626

Actions of Board Committees Not Requiring Action by the Full Board

6628

PAGE

Meeting of the Executive Committee, November 22, 2003

6628

Credential and Recredentialing Actions, December 4, 2003

6628

Medical Center Rate Adjustments

6628

Actions of the UVIMCO Board, December 15, 2003

6629

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS February 6-7, 2004
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 10:15 a.m., Friday, February 6, 2004, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector, presided. Thomas F. Farrell, II, Vice Rector, Thomas J. Bliley, Jr., William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, Charles L. Glazer, William H. Goodwin, Jr., Mark J. Kington, Lewis F. Payne, Terence P. Ross, Thomas A. Saunders, III, Warren M. Thompson, E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., Ms. Georgia M. Willis, John O. Wynne, and John R.M. Rodney were present.

Present as well were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D., R. Edward Howell, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Ms. Yoke San Reynolds, R. Ariel Gomez, M.D., William W. Harmon, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
--------------------------------------

The Rector called the meeting to order and asked Mr. Glazer to lead the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.

APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE OCTOBER MEETING
----------------------------------------------

The Rector asked for a motion to approve the Minutes of the October 3-4 meeting of the Board. The motion was made, seconded and approved.

RESOLUTION FOR ADDITIONS TO THE AGENDA
--------------------------------------

The Manual of the Board of Visitors specifies that "walk- on" items, which is to say items proposed for consideration after the Agenda is published, must be put to the vote of the full Board before they can be considered; two-thirds of the Members present must approve these additions to the Agenda before they can be considered. The Rector asked for a motion to consider two items, one from the Finance Committee and the other a matter to be considered by the full Board in the final session of the Board meeting.

The necessary approval was voted by the Board.

RESOLUTION FOR AUTHORIZATION OF ACCESS UVA
------------------------------------------

The Board approved the addition to the Agenda from the Finance Committee, a resolution authorizing Access UVa, a new concept in student financial aid. The President subsequently that morning announced the plan at a press conference in the Dome Room of the Rotunda.

WHEREAS, need-blind admissions for undergraduate applicants and need-based aid for admitted undergraduate students help ensure access to and affordability of education at the University, regardless of a student's financial circumstances; and

WHEREAS, the continued deterioration of funding from the Commonwealth of Virginia will cause an erosion of the quality of the University's academic program unless there is an increase in other sources of revenue including tuition; and

WHEREAS, artificially restraining tuition below cost results in a financial subsidy for every student regardless of need; and

WHEREAS, the University seeks to ensure access and affordability to students who cannot afford the price of an education by providing financial aid rather than by artificially depressing tuition; and

WHEREAS, the University seeks to attract, enroll and graduate a socio-economically diverse student body; and

WHEREAS, since 1985, the University has offered financial aid in the form of grants, loans and work-study to meet 100 percent of financial need for high-need students; and

WHEREAS, in 2001 the University began to phase-in a program to offer financial aid to meet 100 percent of demonstrated financial need for all qualified undergraduate students by the fall of 2004; and

WHEREAS, students graduating with a high level of indebtedness may be limited in their career and advanced education choices upon graduation;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors authorizes the implementation of Access UVa, consisting of the following four components to the University's financial aid program:

RESOLVED FURTHER that it is the intent of the Board to allocate tuition and private funds for this purpose, that such allocation will be considered as part of the annual budget process, and that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer will include in the 2004-2005 operating budget a plan to fund the first component of Access UVa.

PRESIDENT'S REPORTREPORT OF GIFTS AND GRANTS
--------------------------------------------

The President gave his customary report.

The majority of the report was a summary of legislation of interest to the University pending in the General Assembly. Of these bills, perhaps the most significant are House Bill 1359 and Senate Bill 638, the so-called "charter agreement" involving the University, Virginia Tech and the College of William and Mary. Both bills have been carried over to the next Session of the General Assembly.

The President reported that in the current Fiscal Year, through November 30, 2003, private gifts to the University and its related foundations amount to $48million, down substantially from $140million for the same period last year. Last year and in previous years, the figures were high because of significant "8-figure" commitments.

Nonetheless, both the College of Arts & Sciences and The University of Virginia's College at Wise report substantial increases in giving.

Among the significant gifts received between July 1 and November 30, are $1.5million in pledge payments from the Community Foundation to The University of Virginia's College at Wise for the football stadium and to the University for the new Marching Band. Mr. Carl W. Smith and Mrs. Hunter J. Smith are associated with these payments.

The Smiths have also pledged $12million to the University for the Performing Arts Center.

Mr. James Edward Manley pledged $3.5million to The College Foundation for the South Lawn Project and the Victor Elmaleh Foundation $1.2million to the School of Architecture for the Campbell Hall additions. Mr. Elmaleh and Mrs. Sono Elmaleh are associated with this latter pledge.

RESOLUTION ON GIFTS AND GRANTS
------------------------------

On motion, the Board adopted a resolution accepting the President's Report on Gifts and Grants.

RESOLVED, the Report of the President on gifts and grants received by the University and its related foundations during the period July 1 – November 30, 2003, is accepted.

Committee Reports
-----------------

At ll:00 a.m., the Board began hearing reports from each of its Committees. These reports are part of the individual Committee Minutes. The reports continued until 11:45 a.m., when the Board recessed for lunch.

VISIT BY THE AUDITOR OF PUBLIC ACCOUNTS
---------------------------------------

The Auditor of Public Accounts of the Commonwealth, Mr. Walter Kucharski, attended the meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee on February 6th. The Auditor normally visits the University at the Winter Board meeting to report to the Board on his findings in the annual Audit of the University. His report is summarized in the Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------

The Board resumed its meeting at 1:00 p.m., and after adopting the following motions, went into Executive Session:

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific employees of the University of Virginia; as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to confer with General Counsel and be advised on pending and anticipated litigation risk affecting the University, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss the transfer of real estate and consult with General Counsel, where disclosure at this time would adversely affect the University's bargaining position and negotiation strategy, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (3), (6), (7), and (30) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to consider the appointment of a student member to the Board of Visitors in accordance with Section 2.2-3711 (A)(1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss fund-raising and a specific gift with the University's General Counsel, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (7) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board resumed in Open Session at 3:55 p.m., and after adopting the following resolution certifying that its discussions in Executive Session had been conducted in accord with the exemptions permitted by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, recessed to move its meeting to the Dome Room of the Rotunda:

Mr. Rector, I move that we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

RESOLUTIONS CREATING PROFESSORSHIPS
-----------------------------------

The Board resumed its meeting, in Open Session, in the Dome Room of the Rotunda at 4:10 p.m.

The President proposed the following resolutions creating three professorships; the Board approved all three.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LABROSSE-LEVINSON DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN RELIGION, CULTURE AND SOCIAL THEORY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Ms. Wynette LaBrosse and Mr. Frank Levinson of Palo Alto, California, have been generous friends of the University, of which Mr. Levinson is an alumnus; and

WHEREAS, Ms. LaBrosse and Mr. Levinson both are keenly interested in how religion and technology can transform society; and

WHEREAS, Ms. LaBrosse and Mr. Levinson have made a thoughtful and generous gift to establish a professorship in the Center on Religion and Democracy;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the LaBrosse- Levinson Distinguished Professorship in Religion, Culture and Social Theory, to be held in the Center on Religion and Democracy in the College of Arts and Sciences, and thanks Ms. LaBrosse and Mr. Levinson for their continuing support of the University.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOSEPH AND FRANCES LARNER PROFESSORSHIP IN PHARMACOLOGY IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Dr. Joseph Larner joined the faculty of the School of Medicine in 1969 as Chair of the Department of Pharmacology, a position he held until 1990; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Larner, during his 31 years in the Department of Pharmacology, was known particularly for his research on the hormone insulin and its complex chemical program, specifically as related to glycogen synthesis; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Larner is a recipient of the Banting Medal and a member of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences; and

WHEREAS, Dr. and Mrs. Larner and others have contributed funds to establish a chair in the Department of Pharmacology;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Joseph and Frances Larner Professorship in Pharmacology, to be held in the Department of Pharmacology at the School of Medicine, thanks Dr. and Mrs. Larner and the other donors for their generosity, and salutes Dr. Larner for his distinguished contributions to his profession and to the University of Virginia.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JUSTICE THURGOOD MARSHALL RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the late Justice Thurgood Marshall, as Director- Counsel of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, devised the strategy of using the courts to provide a definition of equality that assured black Americans the full rights of citizenship; and

WHEREAS, Justice Marshall's strategy led to the Supreme Court's decision in Brown v. Board of Education in 1954; and

WHEREAS, Justice Marshall served on the Supreme Court for 24 years, having been previously Solicitor General of the United States; and

WHEREAS, Justice Marshall's distinguished career emphasizes the power of the law in effecting justice; and

WHEREAS, more than one hundred donors, most of them African-American alumni of the School of Law, have given generously toward the establishment of a chair honoring the contributions of Justice Marshall;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Justice Thurgood Marshall Research Professorship in Law, to be held in the School of Law, thanks the donors who have made the Professorship possible, and pays tribute to the memory of Justice Marshall and the contributions he made to the national life of the United States.

REPORT ON NAMINGSTHE DI BENEDETTO LIBRARY IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINETHE SARAH DU BOSE FUND FAMILY EDUCATION ROOM IN THE CHILDREN'S MEDICAL CENTER
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President then reported on the following two namings:

The di Benedetto Library is the departmental library of the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation in the School of Medicine. It was named at the request of the Department for Margarete di Benedetto, M.D., who retired on November 26th. Dr. di Benedetto, who has been nationally recognized for her work in electrodiagnosis, was recruited in 1989 from the Walter Reed Army Medical Center to serve as the first Chair of the newly established Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. She is also the first woman Chair of any department in the Medical School. Dr. di Benedetto retired as Chair in 1995 but continued to teach and conduct research until her retirement last fall.

The Neonatal Intensive Care Unit in the Children's Medical Center has been renovated recently. At the request of the Health System, the Names Committee approved the naming of the Family Education Room in the renovated unit; the Room is to be known as the Sarah Du Bose Fund Family Education Room.

Sarah Du Bose was born at the University Hospital on February 2, 1994; she was 14 weeks early and weighed less than three pounds. She spent almost four months in the Newborn Intensive Care Unit at the Children's Medical Center and received care that her parents believe saved her life. She is now a happy and healthy ten-year old. Her parents, Sally and Charles Du Bose of Charlottesville, established the Sarah Du Bose Fund to provide support for the Children's Medical Center.

Mr. and Mrs. Du Bose have given generously of their time and resources to the Children's Medical Center and have organized a community effort, an effort which includes students at the University, to raise money for the Sarah Du Bose Fund. The naming of the Family Education Room honors the contributions the Fund has made to the support of the Children's Medical Center.

The Board adjourned at 4:25 p.m.

The Board resumed its meeting, in Open Session, at 8:40 a.m., Saturday, February 7, 2004, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; save Messrs. Bliley, Farrell, and Payne, all Members present the previous day were present.

POLICY DISCUSSION – A PLAN FOR THE ENHANCEMENT OF SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING RESEARCH PROGRAMS AT THE UNIVERSITYAPPROVAL OF RESEARCH PLAN
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This portion of the Board meeting was devoted to a discussion, led by Mr.Block and Dr. Gomez, of a plan for the enhancement of science and engineering research programs at the University.

The Board concluded its discussion at 10:00 a.m., with a resolution approving the plan:

RESOLVED, the Board approves the Plan for Enhancement of Science and Engineering Research Programs at the University of Virginia, presented to it for consideration on February 7, 2004, and directs that the Plan be implemented. Further, the Board directs that a report on the implantation of the Plan be made to the Board of Visitors annually.

After a five minute recess, the Board resumed its meeting and adopted the following resolutions:

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE UNIVERSITY CENTER
---------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Venturi, Scott Brown and Associates, of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the University Center.

REQUEST FOR A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ACROSS PROPERTY OWNED BY THE VIRGINIA PUBLIC BUILDING AUTHORITY AND THE VIRGINIA STATE DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the request for an easement, dated February 5, 2004, from the Virginia Public Building Authority and the Virginia State Department of Forestry for an entrance drive across Virginia Public Building Authority and Virginia State Department of Forestry property located adjacent to the Fontaine Research Park is authorized; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to request said easement and approve any associated agreements.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR THE CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE FOR A NATURAL GAS LINE ON CRISPELL DRIVE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, dated February 5, 2004, to the City of Charlottesville for a natural gas line on Crispell Drive on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

REQUEST FOR A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ACROSS THE MONTESANO PROPERTY OWNED BY THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FOUNDATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the request for an easement, dated February 5, 2004, from the University of Virginia Foundation for the North Grounds Connector across the Foundation's Montesano property is authorized; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to request said easement.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FOUNDATION FOR AN ENTRANCE DRIVE TO THE NORTH GROUNDS CONNECTOR
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, dated February 5, 2004, to the University of Virginia Foundation for an entrance drive to the North Grounds Connector on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR MR. WILLIAM KELSO FOR AN ACCESS DRIVE AT THE FAN MOUNTAIN OBSERVATORY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent springing easement, dated February 5, 2004, to Mr. William Kelso for an access drive connecting to Fan Mountain Road on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE STORAGE BUILDING AT THE DAVIS FARM – VIVARIUM COMPLEX ON ROUTE 20 SOUTH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University owns a storage building (FAACS Building Number: 207-1674) at the Davis Farm – Vivarium Complex on Route 20 South in Albemarle County; and

WHEREAS, this structure is no longer used, and its site is needed for a proposed new vivarium facility; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources;

WHEREAS, the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources have approved the removal of this structure;

RESOLVED that the removal of the storage building (FAACS Building Number: 207-1674) at the Davis Farm – Vivarium Complex on Route 20 South, in Albemarle County, is approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned building, and that the said officer ensure that the required reports regarding the building removal are sent to the Department of General Services.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE THE MAX KADE GERMAN HOUSE AT 581 BRANDON AVENUE
------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University owns a building (FAACS Building Number: 207-2137) at 581 Brandon Avenue in Charlottesville; and

WHEREAS, this structure is in need of extensive repairs, and the cost of these repairs is prohibitive and cannot be justified; and

WHEREAS, the German House residents are being housed in the Gooch/Dillard housing area until the Bice House renovation has been completed and the German House can be incorporated into it; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources;

WHEREAS, the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources have approved the removal of this structure;

RESOLVED that the removal of the Max Kade German House (FAACS Building Number: 207-2137) at 581 Brandon Avenue in Charlottesville, is approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned building, and that the said officer ensure that the required reports regarding the building removal are sent to the Department of General Services.

AUTHORIZATION OF ACQUISITION AND ISSUANCE OF DEBT FINANCING OF THE FONTAINE CLINICS BUILDING
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Submittal:

Legislative Budget Amendment

Project Number:

209-16756

Chapter Date:

2002-04

Chapter Number:

899

Item Number:

C-53.60

WHEREAS, Chapter 9, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the "Virginia Code"), establishes a public corporation under the name and style of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") which is governed by a Board of Visitors (the "Board"); and

WHEREAS, Chapter 3, Title 23 of the Virginia Code (the "Act") classifies the University as an educational institution, declares it to be a public body and constitutes it a governmental instrumentality for the dissemination of education; and

WHEREAS, the Act empowers the University, with the consent and approval of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Commonwealth") and the Governor of the Commonwealth to acquire, build, construct, reconstruct, erect, extend, better, equip and improve any building, facility, addition, extension or improvement of a capital nature required by or convenient for the purposes of the University and to borrow money and make, issue and sell bonds of the University for any such purposes, including the refinancing of any such facilities; and

WHEREAS, the Act further authorizes the University to pledge to the payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds any monies available for the use of the University including, but not limited to, and subject to guidelines promulgated by the Secretary of Finance of the Commonwealth (the "Secretary of Finance"), monies appropriated to the University from the general funds of the Commonwealth or from nongeneral funds, without regard to the source of such monies, and which are not required by law or by previous binding contract to be devoted to some other purpose; and

WHEREAS, the University, on behalf of the Medical Center, intends to acquire a building for clinical operations, known as Medical Office Building II ("the Project") at the Fontaine Research Park from the University Foundation; and

WHEREAS, the University intends to fund the acquisition with proceeds from debt issuance; and

WHEREAS, the Commonwealth has authorized the Project and the issuance of bonds for it at an amount not to exceed $17,325,000, exclusive of costs of issuance, capitalized interest, original issue discount and other expenses relating thereto; and

WHEREAS, the Board anticipates that the bonds will be secured by a general revenue pledge of the University and not be in any way a debt of the Commonwealth and shall not create or constitute any indebtedness or obligation of the Commonwealth, either legal, moral or otherwise; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Board guidelines adopted January 31, 2003, Finance Committee meeting, Item II.C., the University may provide short-term financing via its commercial paper program ("Commercial Paper")for the Project prior to issuing long-term debt; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center will service any and all debt payments with income from operations;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors authorizes the acquisition of the clinics building at the Fontaine Research Park known as Medical Office Building II from the University Foundation at a cost not to exceed the state- authorized amount; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that Board of Visitors authorizes the issuance of Commercial Paper and/or long-term debt (such long-term debt is referred to hereinafter as the "Bonds") for the purpose of financing the Project and providing for the terms thereof, as required by Section 23-19 of the Virginia Code; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that pursuant to the Regulations and prior Board actions, the University of Virginia may utilize its existing authorities and capabilities to provide funding to the Project under the following conditions:

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee is authorized to approve the final terms of each series of the Bonds, including, without limitation, their original principal amounts, maturity dates and amounts, redemption provisions and prices and interest rates (which may be either fixed or variable), provided that (i) the maximum aggregate principal amount of all of the Bonds funding the Project shall not exceed $17,325,000; (ii) the maximum true interest cost of any series of the Bonds bearing interest at a fixed rate shall not exceed six percent (6%) per annum; (iii) the maximum initial true interest cost of any series of the Bonds bearing interest at a variable rate shall not exceed five percent (5%) per annum; (iv) the final maturity of all of the Bonds shall not extend beyond June 30, 2040; (v) call protection on the Bonds shall not exceed eleven (11) years; and (vi) no optional redemption premium for the Bonds shall exceed two percent; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee is authorized to approve the discount payable to the underwriters selected by the Executive Committee (the "Underwriters") on account of the sale of the Bonds and to approve the terms of a contract for the sale of the Bonds to the Underwriters, provided that the discount payable to the Underwriters shall not exceed 0.5 percent of the original aggregate principal amount of the Bonds; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee or all officers of the University are authorized and directed to take all such further actions, including without limitation the designation of Underwriters, paying agents, remarketing agents, trustees and liquidity providers for the Bonds, and to execute all such instruments, agreements, documents and certificates as they shall deem necessary or desirable to carry out the terms of the financing plans presented to this meeting, including without limitation any liquidity facilities, swap or other interest rate management agreements associated with the Bonds; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, pursuant to the Section 147(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and applicable regulations thereunder, the University designates Yoke San Reynolds, Vice President for Finance of the University, as the public hearing officer to hold any public hearings required in order to ensure the tax-exempt status of interest on the bonds; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that all acts of all officers of the University which are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution and in carrying out the financing plans presented to this meeting are ratified, approved, and affirmed.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN AND BUILDING DEMOLITIONS FOR A NEW RESIDENCE HALL AT THE COLLEGE AT WISE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Buildings and Grounds Committee has reviewed the schematic design, dated February 5, 2004, and prepared by Ken Ross Architects, Inc., of Johnson City, Tennessee, for a new Residence Hall at the College at Wise; and

WHEREAS, construction of the Residence Hall will require the demolition of Faculty House A (FAACS Building Number 246-8371) and Faculty House B (FAACS Building Number 246-8372), which are located on Faculty Row, and are currently used as student residences; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources;

RESOLVED that the new Residence Hall is approved for further design and construction, contingent on approval of the operating subsidy by the Finance Committee; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the removal of the two faculty houses (FAACS Building Numbers: 246-8371 and 246-8372) on Faculty Row is approved by the Board of Visitors pending approval by the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned buildings, and that the said officer ensure that the required reports regarding the building removals are sent to the Department of General Services.

APPROVAL OF THE SITE FOR THE RELOCATION OF VARSITY HALL
-------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the 204 15th Street S.W. site for the relocation of Varsity Hall, as proposed by the Architect for the University on February 5, 2004, is approved.

APPROVAL OF POLICY REVISION FOR BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS REVIEWProcedure for Involvement by the Buildings and Grounds Committee in Design Review of Capital Projects
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors approved a policy for the Procedure for Involvement by the Buildings and Grounds Committee in Design Review of Capital Projects on December 7, 1991; and

WHEREAS, the Buildings and Grounds Committee subsequently approved a revised policy on June 13, 1997; and

WHEREAS, the revised policy included a provision for three design review stages: Architectural Design Guidelines, Schematic Design and Preliminary Design; and

WHEREAS, the Buildings and Grounds Committee at its April 3, 2003 meeting accepted recommended improvements to the design development process for capital projects which include a reduction in the number of the design review stages from three to two: Architectural Design Guidelines and Schematic Design;

RESOLVED that the Procedure for Involvement by the Buildings and Grounds Committee in Design Review of Capital Projects policy, dated June 13, 1997, be updated and superseded as follows:

APPROVAL OF MISSION AND DESIRED ACCOMPLISHMENTS/GOALS, THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, The University of Virginia's College at Wise began a comprehensive strategic planning cycle in December, 2002; and

WHEREAS, on recommendation, appropriate committees at the College reviewed the College's mission statement and list of accomplishments and goals and developed a revised version; and

WHEREAS, the revised mission statement and list of accomplishments and goals has been reviewed and approved by all of the appropriate committees, faculty and officials at the College; and

WHEREAS, the document, known as the Mission and Desired Accomplishments/Goals, was approved by The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board on December 12, 2003; and

WHEREAS, the Mission and Desired Accomplishments/Goals must be approved by the Board of Visitors before being sent to the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the revised Mission and Desired Accomplishments/Goals for The University of Virginia's College at Wise.

RATIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL 2004-2006 LEGISLATIVE AMENDMENTS FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION, THE MEDICAL CENTER AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the additional 2004-2006 legislative proposal and budget amendments have been carefully reviewed; and

WHEREAS, the legislative proposal and budget amendments represent additional high priority initiatives and are aligned with the mission of the institution;

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors authorized the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to transmit to the General Assembly any request not funded by the Governor as long as there are no material differences from the items already endorsed by the Board of Visitors.

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia endorses and supports the additional 2004-2006 legislative proposal and budget amendments; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to transmit the final proposed legislative proposal and budget amendments to the General Assembly.

APPROVAL OF STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 2004-2005
-----------------------------------------------

Facility

Actual 2003-2004 Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

% Increase Before Improvement Fee

Student Housing Improvement Fund Fee

Total Percent Increase

Proposed 2003-2004 Per Student Per Session

Academic Division

DORMITORIES

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Double Room

$2,670

$110

4.12%

$150

9.74%

$2,930

Brown College

Double Room

$3,270

$130

3.98%

$150

8.56%

$3,550

McCormick Road

Double Room

$2,560

$100

3.91%

$150

9.77%

$2,810

Small Double Room

$2,360

$90

3.81%

$150

10.17%

$2,600

Single

$2,680

$110

4.10%

$150

9.70%

$2,940

Lawn

Small Single

$3,120

$130

4.17%

$150

8.97%

$3,400

Regular Single

$3,120

$130

4.17%

$150

8.97%

$3,400

Small Single (no fireplace)

$3,040

$120

3.95%

$150

8.88%

$3,310

Range

Regular Single

$3,120

$130

4.17%

$150

8.97%

$3,400

Crackerbox

Single Room

$3,120

$130

4.17%

$150

8.97%

$3,400

Mary Munford/ Roberta Gwathmey

Double Room

$2,670

$110

4.12%

$150

9.74%

$2,930

Single Room

$3,120

$130

4.17%

$150

8.97%

$3,400

Sprigg (Lewis/Hoxton)

Small Double Room

$2,830

$110

3.89%

$150

9.19%

$3,090

Double Room

$3,000

$120

4.00%

$150

9.00%

$3,270

Single Room

$3,310

$130

3.93%

$150

8.46%

$3,590

Single Room (w/bath)

$3,470

$140

4.03%

$150

8.36%

$3,760

Facility

Actual 2003-2004 Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

% Increase Before Improvement Fee

Student Housing Improvement Fund Fee

Total Percent Increase

Proposed 2003-2004 Per Student Per Session

Academic Division

DORMITORIES

Gooch/Dillard

Double Room

$3,000

$120

4.00%

$150

9.00%

$3,270

Single Room

$3,310

$130

3.93%

$150

8.46%

$3,590

Twelve Month Rate:

Single Room

$4,570

$180

3.94%

$150

7.22%

$4,900

Hereford College

Double Room

$3,000

$120

4.00%

$150

9.00%

$3,270

Single Room

$3,270

$130

3.98%

$150

8.56%

$3,550

French House

Triple Room

$2,850

$110

3.86%

$150

9.12%

$3,110

Double Room

$3,000

$120

4.00%

$150

9.00%

$3,270

Single Room

$3,370

$140

4.15%

$150

8.61%

$3,660

Russia House

Double Room

$2,950

$150

5.08%

$150

10.17%

$3,250

Single Room

$3,300

$150

4.55%

$150

9.09%

$3,600

Spanish House

Double Room

$3,000

$120

4.00%

$150

9.00%

$3,270

Single Room

$3,370

$140

4.15%

$150

8.61%

$3,660

Shea House

Double Room

$3,000

$120

4.00%

$150

9.00%

$3,270

Single Room

$3,370

$140

4.15%

$150

8.61%

$3,660

APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENT

Copeley Hill III, IV, Lambeth Field

Two Bedroom (double occupancy)

$3,030

$120

3.96%

$150

8.91%

$3,300

Three Bedroom (double occupancy)

$2,930

$120

4.10%

$150

9.22%

$3,200

Bice House

Two Bedroom (double occupancy)

$3,030

$120

3.96%

$150

8.91%

$3,300

Three Bedroom (double occupancy)

$2,930

$120

4.10%

$150

9.22%

$3,200

Facility

Actual 2003-2004 Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

% Increase Before Improvement Fee

Student Housing Improvement Fund Fee

Total Percent Increase

Proposed 2003-2004 Per Student Per Session

Academic Division

DORMITORIES

Faulkner (Hench, Mitchell, Younger)

Single

$3,360

$130

3.87%

$150

8.33%

$3,640

Large Single

$4,040

$160

3.96%

$150

7.67%

$4,350

Apartments - Family (per month)

Copeley Hill I & II

One Bedroom (furnished)

$611

$24

4.00%

$15

6.45%

$650

One Bedroom (unfurnished)

$579

$23

4.00%

$15

6.59%

$617

Two Bedroom (furnished)

$670

$27

4.00%

$15

6.24%

$712

Two Bedroom (unfurnished)

$639

$26

4.00%

$15

6.35%

$680

Three Bedroom (furnished)

$724

$29

4.00%

$15

6.07%

$768

Three Bedroom (unfurnished)

$693

$28

4.00%

$15

6.16%

$736

University Gardens

One Bedroom (furnished)

$594

$25

4.21%

$15

6.73%

$634

One Bedroom (unfurnished)

$563

$24

4.26%

$15

6.93%

$602

Two Bedroom (furnished)

$640

$27

4.22%

$15

6.56%

$682

Two Bedroom (unfurnished)

$609

$25

4.11%

$15

6.57%

$649

College At Wise

McCraray

$2,687

$121

4.50%

$0

4.50%

$2,808

Asbury, Thompson, Henson, Martha Randolph, Townhouses, Theme Housing

$3,104

$140

4.50%

$0

4.50%

$3,244

Notes:

1\. The rates for Copeley Hill I & II and University Gardens include utility charges and cable TV.

2\. A new rate for furnished apartments will go into effect as the units turn over.

3\. The rate for a double room used as a single is 135 percent of the double rate.

4\. The rate for a double room used as a triple is 85 percent of the double rate.

RESOLVED that rental increases for student housing facilities be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 2004-2005 session:

MOUNTAIN LAKE BIOLOGICAL STATION RATES
--------------------------------------

Actual 2003

Proposed 2004 Rate

Percent Increase

BOARD RATES PER TERM (4 weeks)

Persons 17 years & older

$513.00

$531.00

3.51%

Persons 10-16 years old

$308.00

$319.00

3.57%

Persons 9 yrs & younger

$164.00

$170.00

3.66%

SUMMER HOUSING RATES PER TERM (4 weeks)

CABINS

$172.00

$176.00

2.33%

LAING APTS

$131.00

$134.00

2.29%

DORMS/SINGLES

$95.00

$97.00

2.11%

NEW DORM:

Apts (2 rooms)

$151.00

$155.00

2.65%

2nd bedroom (family)

$48.00

$49.00

2.08%

Singles

$107.00

$110.00

2.80%

OFF SEASON RATES

Singles/Guests:

Night

$11.00

$11.50

4.55%

Week

$55.00

$56.50

2.73%

Month

$220.00

$225.50

2.50%

Family:

Night

$15.00

$15.50

3.33%

Week

$74.00

$76.00

2.70%

Month

$294.00

$301.50

2.55%

GROUP USE FEES (OFF-SEASON)

Classroom/day

$31.00

$32.00

3.23%

Dining Hall/day

$56.00

$57.50

2.68%

New Dorm Kitchen/day

$31.00

$32.00

3.23%

Auditorium/day

$31.00

$32.00

3.23%

Pavilion only

No charge

Computer Lab/day

$51.00

$52.50

2.94%

Cabins: Hariot, Leconte, Catesby, Banister, Gattinger, Holbrook, Mitchell, Maphis, Schoew, Rafinesque, Burns, Michaux, Clayton, Hentz-Mohr and Washington.

Laing Apartments: Laing South, North, Center, Northwest and West.

Dorms/Singles: Chapman, Elliott, DeSchweinitz, Audubon, Laing Singles, Laundry and other cottages when used as dorms.

APPROVAL OF 2004-2005 TUITION AND FEES FOR EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS TUITION
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2003-04 Approved

Amount of Incease

Percent of Increase

2004-05 Proposed

2003-04 Approved

Amount of Incease

Percent of Increase

2004-05 Proposed

McIntire School of Commerce Executive Masters of Science

MIT

$30,874

$2,387

7.7%

$33,261

$36,024

$2,237

6.2%

$38,261

Price includes fees of $10,261 for special session mandatory fee, books, materials, computer leasing, software licenses, group meals, and lodging.

Accounting $24,828

$24,828

($2,317)

(9.3%)

$22,511

$29,978

($2,467)

(8.2%)

$27,511

Price includes fees of $1,511 for special session mandatory fee, materials, software licenses, group meals, and lodging.

School of Engineering and Applied Science Executive Master of Science

Sys Eng.

$29,500

$0.00

0.0%

$29,500

$29,500

$0.00

0.0%

$29,500

Price includes fees of $7,200 for special session mandatory fee, books, materials, technology, group meals, and lodging.

RESOLVED that the tuition and fees applicable to the following graduate degree programs be approved as shown below, effective May 1, 2004:

APPROVAL OF CHANGES TO STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE GUIDELINES
------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has established Student Activity Fee Guidelines to govern the University of Virginia and its Student Council in distribution of Student Activity Fee funds to and among eligible student organizations; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors last revised the Student Activity Fee Guidelines on August 21 and November 10, 1995; and

WHEREAS, the changes adopted in 1995 were not integrated into the text of the current guidelines but instead continue to appear as separate and sometimes confusing amendments; and

WHEREAS, the Student Council has requested additional helpful clarification with respect to defining political or religious activity ineligible for funding, and also recommends a revision to the Guidelines in order to allow Student Activity Fee funds to support honoraria for speakers at events open to the entire University community;

RESOLVED that the document, shown as Attachment A, entitled "Board of Visitors Student Activity Fee Statement of Purpose and Funding Guidelines," which integrates the 1995 amendments, clarifies religious/political activity ineligible for funding, and permits funding to support speaker honoraria as requested by the Student Council, is approved.

APPROVAL TO ESTABLISH THE PH.D. DEGREE IN EXPERIMENTAL PATHOLOGY IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that, subject to approval by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, The Doctor of Philosophy Degree (Ph.D.) in Experimental Pathology be established in the School of Medicine.

APPROVAL OF ELECTION OF THE HONORABLE SLADE GORTON TO THE MILLER CENTER GOVERNING COUNCIL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Honorable Slade Gorton of Seattle is elected a member of the Miller Center Governing Council, effective February 7, 2004, for a term of three years.

2005 BOARD MEETING DATES
------------------------

The Rector noted that 2005 meeting dates had been proposed to Members as a "walk-on" resolution, but that there were enough scheduling conflicts to warrant more work by the Board Office. Mr. Ross suggested that the Executive Committee approve the 2005 meeting schedule before the April meeting of the full Board.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR MR. CHARLES L. BROWNMEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR MR. ROBERT L. KELLOGG
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the President read aloud the following two memorial resolutions, he spoke briefly to the accomplishments, lives and service to the University of Mr. Brown and Mr. Kellogg:

WHEREAS, Charles L. Brown was born in Richmond in 1921 and took a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Virginia in 1943; and

WHEREAS, after service in the United States Navy during World War II, Mr. Brown joined the American Telephone and Telegraph Company in 1946; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Brown rose rapidly through the ranks of AT&T to become President in 1977 and Chairman of the Board in 1979, retiring in 1986; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Brown served on many national boards, both public and private; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Brown, as a loyal alumnus, served the University with great devotion in a variety of ways, most recently as Vice Chairman of the Campaign Executive Committee in the last capital campaign; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Brown was appointed to the Board of Visitors by Governor Baliles in 1986; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Brown died in Richmond on November 12, 2003;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors takes note, with sorrow, of Mr. Brown's passing, remembers with gratitude his service on the Board and his love of the University, and expresses its profound sympathy to Mrs. Brown and his family.

WHEREAS, Robert L. Kellogg, a native of Michigan, took a B.A. from the University of Maryland and the M.A. and the Ph.D. from Harvard University; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Kellogg joined the faculty of the University of Virginia as an Assistant Professor of English in 1957; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Kellogg served as Chair of the English Department, then as Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences and finally as the first Principal of the Brown College at Monroe Hill; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Kellogg retired from teaching in 1999 after having devoted four decades to shaping excellence in the English Department and in the College; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Kellogg was a superb teacher and scholar, whose academic interests ranged from Icelandic and Old English texts, to the study of the narrative, to the Elizabethan poet Edmund Spenser; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Kellogg was known for his kindness, for his love of knowledge, and for his interest in his students and colleagues; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Kellogg died in Charlottesville on January 3, 2004;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors notes with profound sorrow the death of Robert L. Kellogg, remembers his love of learning and the distinguished contributions he made to the University of Virginia, and expresses its deepest sympathy to Mrs. Kellogg and her family.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period September 1, 2003, through December 31, 2003, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit & Compliance Committee.

APPROVAL OF TRANSFER OF WERTLAND AND 14th STREET PROPERTIES TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FOUNDATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University owns two unimproved parcels of land in the City of Charlottesville: one fronting on 14th Street (tax map parcel 4-296) containing 12,984 square feet, and the other fronting on Wertland Street (tax map parcel 4-302) containing 42,497 square feet, with both parcels sharing a common alleyway; and

WHEREAS, the University has requested from the City of Charlottesville that the alley separating these two parcels be closed and conveyed to the University; and

WHEREAS, the University acquired the Wertland and 14th Street properties in 1968 and 1971 using local funds for the purpose of future development; and

WHEREAS, it is now in the best interests of the University to transfer the properties to the University of Virginia Foundation for future development opportunities benefiting the University, including a sale of the properties, or a "swap" as part of the purchase price for other property; and

WHEREAS, section 4-4.01q of the 1996 Virginia Acts of Assembly authorizes the Governor of Virginia to approve transfers of real estate to the affiliated real estate foundations of the public institutions of higher education in Virginia where he finds that the property was acquired with local or private funds or by gift or grant to or for the institution.

RESOLVED, upon and subject to the approval of the Governor of Virginia as aforesaid, that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby authorize the transfer and conveyance of that parcel of land on 14th Street described as parcel 296 of Section 4 of the tax map of the City of Charlottesville; and that parcel of land on Wertland Street described as parcel 302 of Section 4 of the tax map of the City of Charlottesville to the University of Virginia Foundation, including the alley separating the two properties; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized, upon securing the approval of the Governor of Virginia as aforesaid and with the concurrence of the Chair of the Finance Committee and the review of the General Counsel, to execute any and all contracts and other documents to effect the transfer and conveyance of the above-mentioned properties to the University of Virginia Foundation, and to support the sale or "swap" of the properties by the University of Virginia Foundation for other property necessary for future development of the University.

JEROME HOLLAND SCHOLARSHIP FUND
-------------------------------

WHEREAS, it is in the best interests of the University and the Holland Scholarship Program to seek the concurrence of the donors to the Jerome Holland Scholarship Fund to either alter the terms and conditions established for the Fund so that their private gifts may be administered by the University, or to transfer their private gift monies to an appropriate foundation or other entity in keeping with the wishes of the donors.

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors authorizes the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to seek the wishes of the individual, corporate and foundation donors to the Jerome Holland Scholarship Fund (i) to modify the terms under

which the Fund is administered by the University, (ii) to transfer the private donations to the Fund to a tax-exempt non- profit foundation or other entity or person to administer as a scholarship program under the terms and conditions established by the donors to the Fund, or (iii) to return the private donations to the donors.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Election of Chairholder(b) Change of Title of Chairholder(c) Special Salary Action of Chairholders (d) Retirement of Chairholder (e) Resignation of Chairholder (f) Election of Professor Emeritus (g) Death of ChairholdersPROMOTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSCHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE SALARY ACTION FOR DR. ZHENQI LIURESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTSAPPOINTMENTSRE-APPOINTMENTSRE-ELECTION OF DR. ROBERT E. REYNOLDS AS VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICERRE-ELECTION OF MS. COLETTE SHEEHY AS VICE PRESIDENT FOR MANAGEMENT AND BUDGETELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITIDEATHS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

RESOLVED that the title of the special salary action for Dr. Zhenqi Liu, Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 2003, at an annual salary of $100,00, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated October 3-4, 2003, be changed to read as follows:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirements were announced:

The following appointments were announced:

The following re-appointments were announced:

RESOLVED that Dr. Robert E. Reynolds is re-elected Vice President and Chief Information Officer, for the period October 26, 2003, through July 31, 2004.

RESOLVED that Ms.Colette Sheehy is re-elected Vice President for Management and Budget, for five years, effective November 25, 2003.

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

The following deaths were announced:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISEELECTIONSACTION RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the action relating to the chairholder is approved as shown below:

(a) Special Salary Action of Chairholder

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

The following resignation was announced:

CONSIDERATION OF AN ADDENDUM TO THE AGENDA
------------------------------------------

According to the rules prescribed in the Board Manual, the Rector asked the Board to approve the consideration of a special resolution proposed after the Agenda was published. Members present approved unanimously the consideration of the walk-on resolution.

RESOLUTION NAMING THE GOODWIN BRIDGE
------------------------------------

Before the Rector presented the resolution, he read into the record a short resolution adopted by the Board at Carr's Hill on February 5, 2004 – a resolution which reflected the results (tabulated officially on February 4,th) of a telephone poll of the Board conducted by the Secretary.

RESOLVED, that the pedestrian bridge over Emmet Street, now under construction near the intersection of Massie Road and Emmet Street, be named in honor of Alice T. and William H. Goodwin, Jr. The bridge is to be known as the Goodwin Bridge.

RESOLUTION COMMENDING WILLIAM H. GOODWIN, JR.
---------------------------------------------

The Rector then proposed a resolution thanking and commending Mr. Goodwin for his years of devoted service to the Board and to the University. The resolution following was approved unanimously and the Board gave Mr.Goodwin a standing ovation:

WHEREAS, William H. Goodwin, Jr. is a native of Franklin but has been a resident of Richmond for many years; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Goodwin took a B.S.M.E. from Virginia Tech and the M.B.A. from the Darden School; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Goodwin has had an extraordinarily successful career not only as a businessman but also as a leader in his city and his state; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Goodwin has the great good fortune of having married Alice Tolley of Newport News; and

WHEREAS, Mr.and Mrs. Goodwin together have a profound sense of responsibility toward giving back to their community; and

WHEREAS, Mr.and Mrs. Goodwin's benefactions, not only to their city, their church and the Commonwealth, but also to the University of Virginia, have been wisely considered and quietly given and are too numerous to be listed in a resolution; and

WHEREAS, Mr.and Mrs. Goodwin's generosity to the University has benefited all parts of the institution, a universality symbolized by the Board's naming of the bridge connecting the North and Central Grounds, The Goodwin Bridge; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Goodwin was appointed to the Board of Visitors by Governor Allen in 1996; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Goodwin has been a true leader on the Board, rendering invaluable and lasting service to the University not only as Chair of the Finance Committee and of the Board of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company, but in all aspects of the Board of Visitors' activities; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Goodwin's second term on the Board of Visitors ends on the first day of March, 2004;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors salutes its friend and colleague, William H. Goodwin, Jr., thanks Alice T. Goodwin, and expresses its profound gratitude to them both for their service and devotion to the University of Virginia.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 10:25 a.m.

ACTIONS OF BOARD COMMITTEES NOT REQUIRING ACTION BY THE FULL BOARD
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following are actions taken by Committees of the Board since the October, 2003 Board of Visitors meeting. These actions do not require action by the full Board and are listed here as a matter of record.

MEETING OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, NOVEMBER 22, 2003
-----------------------------------------------------

The Executive Committee adopted two resolutions, the full texts of which appear supra in these Minutes. The two resolutions are titled, respectively, Approval of Property Purchase, and 2003-2004 Salary for President John T. Casteen, III. At the same meeting, the Committee delegated to the President the authority to set the 2003-2004 salary of the Chancellor of The University of Virginia's College at Wise. The report of the President's action in this regard also appears supra in these Minutes.

MEETING OF THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARDMEDICAL CENTER CLINICAL STAFF CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING RESOLUTIONSMEDICAL CENTER RATE ADJUSTMENTS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Medical Center Operating Board met on December 4, 2003, and approved a number of routine resolutions regarding clinical staff at the Medical Center. The full text of these is listed in Attachment B to these Minutes.

At the same meeting, the Medical Center Operating Board approved the following resolution concerning rate adjustments at the Medical Center:

RESOLVED that the Medical Center is authorized to adjust its rates from time to time with the prior approval of the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University and the Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board, and provided that any such adjustment shall be reported to the Medical Center Operating Board at its next regular meeting.

ACTIONS OF THE UVIMCO BOARD
---------------------------

The Board of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company (UVIMCO) met on December 15, 2003, the only meeting of the full Board held subsequent to the October Board of Visitors meeting. At that meeting, the Board either adopted resolutions approving the following actions or ratified actions taken by its committees:

The UVIMCO Board also approved the Blue Ridge lock-up, in principle.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: February 5-7, 2004CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session – as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia – only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration in closed session.

ATTACHMENT ASTUDENT ACTIVITY FEE STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND FUNDING GUIDELINES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

ATTACHMENT AUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA BOARD OF VISITORS STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND FUNDING GUIDELINES(Adopted on February 1, 1991, revised August 21, 1995, November 10, 1995, and January 16, 2004) Submitted to the full Board of Visitors for approval on February 7, 2004STATEMENT OF PURPOSESTUDENT ACTIVITIES ELIGIBLE FOR FUNDINGSTUDENT ORGANIZATIONS NOT ELIGIBLE FOR FUNDINGSTUDENT EXPENDITURES AND ACTIVITIES NOT ELIGIBLE FOR FUNDINGFUND ALLOCATION AND APPEAL PROCEDURES/PROCESS:DEFINITIONS OF TERMS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that with respect to the purpose of an allocation from the Fund, unless otherwise directed by the President, the procedure shall be as follows:

The purpose of the student activity fee is to provide financial support for student organizations that are related to the educational purpose of the University of Virginia. As a required student fee the monies collected by the University for funding student activities are public funds which must be administered in a manner consistent with the educational purpose of the University as well as with state and federal law.

The Rector and Visitors of the University have determined that activities of the student organizations in the following categories relate to the educational environment or purposes of the University and are thus eligible for funding.

The Board of Visitors has determined that fraternities, sororities, honor societies, and special status student organizations not charged by the Board of Visitors are ineligible for funds from the student activities fees. An organization is also ineligible when admission is exclusionary in nature and not open to all students or if membership is restricted by reason of race, religion, disability, national origin, political affiliation, or gender. Notwithstanding these requirements, a student organization may restrict membership based on ability to perform the activities related to the organization's purpose. In determining cases of discrimination, it is not sufficient to look merely to the constitution of an organization but to its actual practices and operations.

The Board of Visitors has further determined that the following expenditures and activities do not relate to the educational purpose of the University and thus are not eligible for funding:

The Student Activities Committee chaired by the designee of the Vice President for Student Affairs is charged with the authority and responsibility for supervision of the student activities fee fund. With respect to distributions from the fund, Student Council is responsible for allocations to eligible student organizations. The ceiling on the aggregate amount allocated to all such organizations shall be the current balance in the student activities fees fund. The allocation process follows procedures established by Student Council which are intended to maximize the use of the funds and are consistent with the above guidelines. The Student Council Appropriations Committee is responsible for following these procedures and making the recommendations to the Student Council Representative Body on the funding requests. In providing student organizations with appropriations deemed needed, the Student Council Appropriations Committee shall be further guided by such criteria as the size of the group, the University wide benefit of the group's activities, and the group's level of financial self-sufficiency. The committee is encouraged but is not required to appropriate all of the available fund balance. The Appropriations Committee recommended allocation to a student organization may be appealed to the Student Council Representative Body by any student or student organization. The Student Activities Committee is the next and final appeal for any budget reviewed and, in some cases, adjusted by the Student Council Representative Body. In addition, the Student Activities Committee may examine on its own motion any student organization's allocation request submitted to the Student Council. After the allocations are finalized, the Student Council Vice President for Student Organizations writes the chair of the Student Activities Committee requesting that the allocations for those funded organizations be released to the Student Activities Business Manager. When the Student Activities Business Manager receives the funds, they are deposited into a demand deposit account. Expenditures from the allocations can be made provided the student organization completes the proper authorization forms with the Student Activities Business Manager. The student organizations receive their allocation on a per semester basis for payment of expenses of activities conducted during the, fall and spring semesters only. Any funded student organization alleged to be in violation of the above guidelines is subject to the suspension or loss of student activity fee funding after notice and an opportunity to be heard by Student Council. The Student Activities Committee is the next and final appeal body.

These definitions of terms are intended to provide clarification of the student activity fee fund guidelines. In those cases where further clarification is needed, Student Council and, if necessary, the Student Activities Committee will interpret the guidelines based on the facts presented and the Board of Visitors intent for the student activity fee.

Ability to Perform - a student organization may restrict membership based on ability to perform the activities related to the organization's purpose. For example, a student publication may make requirements based on writing skills. A club sport may restrict membership where selection is based on competitive skill or the activity involved is a contact sport thus resulting in a team of one or predominately one gender. Likewise, ' a choral group may restrict membership based on vocal range or quality which may also result in a chorus or choruses of one or predominantly one gender.

Co-curricular Organization - a group which provides opportunities outside the classroom setting for students to apply classroom theory and/or to acquire knowledge, experience and/or skills.

Cultural Organization - an organization which is primarily concerned with studying, promoting, and/or expressing racial, ethnic, or affinity group traditions, social forms, art, and/or tastes.

Hobby Organization - a group which primarily pursues an activity for relaxation, recreation, or entertainment.

Political Activity - an activity related to: (1) lobbying the principal purpose of which is to influence the passage or defeat of specific legislation, and/or (2) electioneering which encompasses participation or intervention in any political campaign on behalf of or in opposition to any candidate for public office. These restrictions on funding political activities are not intended to preclude funding of any otherwise eligible student organization which: (1) advocates, as an incidental or insubstantial part of its activities, the adoption or rejection of legislation; (2) engages in nonpartisan analysis, study, or research, and makes the results available to the public, or (3) espouses particular positions or ideological viewpoints, including those that may be unpopular or are not generally accepted, or that may coincidentally be prominently held by particular political parties or political candidates.

Political Organization - an organization primarily devoted to political discussion or debate and the organization of meetings to further such interests, and which in advancing such general social and educational interests through its membership does not use student activities fee funding for political activity as defined herein.

Religious Activity - the organized worship of a deity, divine power, or supernatural entity, whether or not such activity is consistent with the precepts of an organized religion or denomination. No student news, information, opinion, entertainment or academic communications media group shall be considered to be engaging in religious activity merely because it expresses ideas or viewpoints that are religious in nature.

Religious Organization - an organization primarily devoted to religious discussion or debate and the organization of meetings to further such interests, and which in advancing such general social and educational interests in a secular context through its membership does not use student activities fee funding for religious activity as defined herein.

Student Activities Committee - the University faculty/student committee charged by the Vice President for Student Affairs to provide oversight to the student activity fee fund and its allocation by Student Council.

Special Status Student Organizations - Student organizations which have University delegated functions to perform are termed special status. These groups which include but are not limited to Student Council, school councils, University Guides, and University Singers, have a University department or a school responsible for each group relative to the delegated functions. Two groups, Student Council and WTJU, are charged by the Board of Visitors. The other Special Status Student Organizations receive their charge from a University department or school. Because of this relationship to a school or department and the concomitant funding available to the group,

Special Status Student Organizations not charged by the Board of Visitors are ineligible for student activity fee fund allocations.

Student Organizations Eligible for Funding - Contracted Independent Organizations which have been Student Council qualified and comply with the Student Council appropriations process guidelines as well as Special Status Student Organizations charged by the Board of Visitors are eligible for student activity fee funding. Currently, Student Council and WTJU are Special Status Organizations eligible for funding.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that the foregoing amendments to the Guidelines for Student Activities Current Fund Allocation shall apply to all student organization funding requests that are pending on, or are made after January 16, 2004.

ATTACHMENT BCREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS December 4, 2003 ATTACHMENT BCREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS December 4, 20031. NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF2. LOCUM TENENS APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF3. RE-APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF4. SECONDARY RE-APPOINTMENT TO THE CLINICAL STAFF5. STATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFF6. RESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFF7. PRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS8. RENEWED PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS9. STATUS CHANGE FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL10. RESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the appointment as locum tenens for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for secondary reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioner are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status changes in clinical privileges for the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change of privileges of the following Allied Health Professional is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:
