---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2004'
month: 7
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

July 30, 2004

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2008

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS JULY 30-31, 2004
-------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Approval of Board of Visitors Manual Changes

6714

Approval of Legislative Proposal

6714

Approval of a Permanent Easement for Ms. Valerie Bruce for a Sanitary Sewer Line at The University of Virginia's College at Wise

6715

Approval of Permanent Easements for Virginia Electric and Power Company for Electrical Switch Boxes Located on University Property on Jefferson Park Avenue and 15th Street

6715

Appointment of Mr. Randy Koporc to the Medical Center Operating Board

6716

Memorial Resolution on Neal O Wade, Jr.

6716

Approval to Construct a Sports Medicine Facility

6717

Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions

6717

Assignment of Upper Apartment in Pavilion VIII

6731

PAGEApproval of Board of Visitors Manual Changes6714Approval of Legislative Proposal6714Approval of a Permanent Easement for Ms. Valerie Bruce for a Sanitary Sewer Line at The University of Virginia's College at Wise6715Approval of Permanent Easements for Virginia Electric and Power Company for Electrical Switch Boxes Located on University Property on Jefferson Park Avenue and 15th Street6715Appointment of Mr. Randy Koporc to the Medical Center Operating Board6716Memorial Resolution on Neal O Wade, Jr.6716Approval to Construct a Sports Medicine Facility6717Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions6717Assignment of Upper Apartment in Pavilion VIII6731

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS JULY 30-31, 2004
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met in retreat at "Montpelier" in Orange County on July 30th and 31st, 2004. The Retreat was conducted partly in Open Session and partly in Executive Session, in accordance with the exemptions permitted by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act. The Retreat was led by the Rector, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr. All Members of the Board were present; also present were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Ms. Amy D. Cronin, Ms. Carol Wood, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Retreat began at 1:10 p.m., on Friday, July 30th. After a brief welcome from Michael C. Quinn, the President of "Montpelier," and Hunter Rawlings, a member of the "Montpelier" Board, the Board of Visitors discussed, partly in Open Session and partly in Executive Session until 4:45 p.m., "Charter University Legislation: Report on Plans for Legislative Action and Appointment of Legislative Advisory Group." At the end of this session, the Rector asked Messrs. Farrell, Fralin, Payne and Wynne to serve as a legislative advisory group.

The Board resumed in Open Session and participated in a discussion on the following: "Report of the Working Group for Implementation of Alumni Task Force Recommendations," and "Telling our Diversity Story More Effectively", which was led by Ms. Wood, Interim Assistant Vice President for University Relations. The Board adjourned at 5:45 p.m.

The Board resumed at 8:40 a.m., Saturday, July 31st, and held discussions, in Executive Session, on the following topics: "UVIMCO Update," and "Review by the President and Chief Operating Officer of Their Goals and Objectives for 2004-2005."

The motions permitting these discussions in Executive Session are as follows:

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss alumni relations as an important component of the Capital Campaign and coordinated fund-raising to sustain the University's long-term development, and to consult with General Counsel on our legal relationship with affiliated foundations in such matters, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (4), (6), (7), and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss and evaluate the performance and personnel goals of the President and the Executive Vice-President and Chief Operating Officer, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss and consult with members of this Board, legal counsel, and our administrative leadership regarding the status of contract negotiations for investment management services, and their consideration of prospective candidates for chief investment officer, as provided for in Sections 2.2-3711 (A) (1), (6), (7), (8) and (30) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss and consult with legal counsel on proposed legislation and the status of charter agreement terms and negotiations, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (6), (7) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

At the end of each Executive Session, the Board adopted the following resolution, certifying that its discussions had been conducted in accordance with the exemptions permitted by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act.

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

The Board then held a brief business session and adopted the following resolutions:

APPROVAL OF BOARD OF VISITORS MANUAL CHANGES
--------------------------------------------

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves the changes to the Manual of the Board of Visitors, dated July 31, 2004.

APPROVAL OF LEGISLATIVE PROPOSAL
--------------------------------

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves and endorses the proposed legislation which would extend until July 1, 2007, certain exemptions to the Virginia Freedom of Information Act relative to meetings of the Board and its Committees, in which Members may participate by video or telephone. The proposed legislation, which follows, would extend exemptions granted to the University and which expire on July 1, 2005:

ยง 2.2-3709. (Effective until July 1, 2005 2007) Meetings of Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR MS. VALERIE BRUCE FOR A SANITARY SEWER LINE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement to Ms. Valerie Bruce for a sanitary sewer line at the Resource Center at the University of Virginia's College at Wise on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of The University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

APPROVAL OF PERMANENT EASEMENTS FOR VIRGINIA ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY FOR ELECTRICAL SWITCH BOXES LOCATED ON UNIVERSITY PROPERTY ON JEFFERSON PARK AVENUE AND 15TH STREET
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of permanent easements to Virginia Electric and Power Company for electrical switch boxes at the Elson Student Health Center and on the west side of 15th Street across from McLeod Hall on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of The University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easements.

APPOINTMENT OF MR. RANDY KOPORC TO THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD
---------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors may appoint up to four public members of the Medical Center Operating Board, with initial terms not to exceed four years and the possibility of reappointment for an additional term;

RESOLVED, Mr. Randy J. Koporc of Albemarle County is appointed to the Medical Center Operating Board for a term beginning August 1, 2004 and ending June 30, 2008.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION ON NEAL O. WADE, JR.
----------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Neal O. Wade, Jr., was born in North Carolina in 1924 and raised in Charlottesville; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Wade matriculated in the School of Engineering in 1942 but left soon after to enter the United States Army where he served with distinction, earning, among other decorations, the Bronze Star; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Wade resumed his studies in the School of Engineering in 1945 and distinguished himself in the classroom, on the athletic field and as a leader in a variety of other extracurricular activities; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Wade pursued graduate studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and enjoyed a successful business career in several parts of the country, most recently in Houston; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Wade was President of the Alumni Association and was appointed to the Board of Visitors by Governor Robb in 1982; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Wade died in Houston on July 5, 2004;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors notes with profound sorrow the death of Neal O. Wade, Jr., remembers with gratitude his love of and devotion to the University of Virginia, and expresses its deepest sympathy to Mrs. Wade and her children.

APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT A SPORTS MEDICINE FACILITY
------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the existing Sports Medicine facilities are not adequate to serve all student athletes and there is thus a need for an additional facility; and

WHEREAS, this additional facility must be adequate for the provision of all Sports Medicine services currently offered to student athletes, including hydrotherapy;

RESOLVED that the construction of an additional Sports Medicine facility, in order that all student athletes may be supported, is approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to make the appropriate request from the Governor for authorization to allow this project to proceed as quickly as possible such that it can be completed and occupied by the summer of 2005.

The Board also took note of the following actions taken by Board Committees - actions which did not require action by the full Board but which are listed here as a matter of record:

FROM THE CHAIR OF THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD - CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS1. NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF2. REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF3. SECONDARY REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF4. RESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFF5. STATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFF6. PRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS7. RENEWED PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS8. RESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that pursuant to the delegation of authority contained in the May 3, 2004, Resolution of the Medical Center Operating Board, the undersigned Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board hereby approves the following Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions as specifically set forth below:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for secondary reappointments to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status changes in clinical privileges for the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

FROM THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE - ASSIGNMENT OF THE UPPER APARTMENT IN PAVILION VIII
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED, the Upper Apartment in Pavilion VIII is assigned to Mr. and Mrs. Talbot Brewer for a term of three years, commencing with the date of their occupancy. The lease may be renewed, on application, for a second term of three years.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 12:15 p.m.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: July 30-31, 2004CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session - as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia - only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration in closed session.
