---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2022'
month: 9
tags:
  - minutes
---
MANUAL OF

THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

Revised to reflect changes through September 16, 2022**MANUAL  
OF THE BOARD  
OF VISITORS  
OF THE  
UNIVERSITY  
OF VIRGINIA  
**

  

University of Virginia Press

Charlottesville and London

First issued by the University Press of Virginia in 1967

New edition 2005

Printed in the United States of America

**TABLE OF CONTENTS**

RECTORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

i

PRESIDENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

iii

PREFACE

iv

1

MISSION STATEMENT

1

2

THE BOARD OF VISITORS

2

2.1

Corporate Name and Governing Body

2.2

Composition

2.21

Student Nonvoting Member

2.22

Faculty Nonvoting Member

2.23

Visitors Emeriti

2.24

Removal

2.3

Meetings

2.31

The Annual Meeting

2.32

Regular Meetings

2.33

Special Meetings

2.34

Notice of Meetings

2.35

Quorum

2.36

Telephonic or Video Participation

2.37

Dockets

2.38

Conduct of Business

2.4

Powers and Duties

3

THE COMMITTEE SYSTEM

6

3.1

The Executive Committee

3.2

Standing Committees

3.21

Finance Committee

3.22

Buildings and Grounds Committee

3.23

Academic and Student Life Committee

3.24

Audit, Compliance, and Risk Committee

3.25

Advancement Committee

3.26

The Committee on The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

3.27

The Health System Board

3.3

Special Committees

4

OFFICERS OF THE BOARD

10

4.1

The Rector and Vice Rector of the University

4.11

Terms of Office and Election

4.12

Powers and Duties

4.13

Vacancies

4.14

Rector _pro Tempore_

4.2

The President of the University

4.21

Election, Appointment, and Removal

4.22

Powers and Duties

4.3

4.4

Powers and Duties of the Chief Operating Officer

Powers and Duties of the Provost

4.5

Secretary to the Board of Visitors

4.51

Powers and Duties

5

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

14

5.1

Appeals to the Board

5.2

Retirement

5.3

Communications to the Board

5.4

Minutes of Board Meetings

5.41

Clerk of the Board

5.5

Execution of Instruments

5.6

Assignment of Securities

5.7

The _Manual_

5.8

Distribution of the _Manual_

5.9

Amendments to the _Manual_

5.10

Effective Date of the _Manual_

_Appendixes_

A THOMAS JEFFERSON ON HIGHER EDUCATION: DOCUMENTS RELATIVE TO THE FOUNDING OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

1 INTRODUCTION, BY JOHN COOK WYLLIE 16  

2 THE STATUTE OF 1818 19  

3 PROCEEDINGS AND REPORT OF THE

COMMISSIONERS FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF

VIRGINIA 21  

4 THE STATUTE OF 1819 37  

B THE BOARD OF VISITORS FROM 1819 THROUGH 2017 39  

C PERTINENT LEGAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA EXCERPTED FROM THE

CODE OF VIRGINIA, 1950, AS AMENDED THROUGH

THE REGULAR SESSION OF THE 2022 GENERAL

ASSEMBLY 51

**RECTORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA**

Thomas Jefferson

1819–1826

James Madison

1826–1834

Joseph C. Cabell

1834–1836

Chapman Johnson

1836–1845

Joseph C. Cabell

1845–1856

Andrew Stevenson

1856–1857

Thomas J. Randolph

1857–1864

T. L. Preston

1864–1865

Alexander Rives

1865–1866

B. Johnson Barbour

1866–1872

R. G. H. Kean

1872–1876

Alex. H. H. Stuart

1876–1882

Wyatt M. Elliott

1882–1884

W. Roane Rufﬁn

1884–1886

Alex. H. H. Stuart

1886–1887

John L. Marye

1887–1890

W. C. N. Randolph

1890–1897

Armistead C. Gordon

1897–1898

Charles P. Jones

1898–1906

Armistead C. Gordon

1906–1918

R. Tate Irvine

1918–1920

John Stewart Bryan

1920–1922

C. Harding Walker

1922–1930

Frederic W. Scott

1930–1939

Robert Gray Williams

1939–1946

Edward R. Stettinius Jr.

1946–1949

Barron Foster Black

1949–1956

Frank Talbott Jr.

1956–1960

Albert Vickers Bryan

1960–1964

Charles Rogers Fenwick

1964–1966

Frank W. Rogers

1966–1970

Joseph H. McConnell

1970–1976

William L. Zimmer III

1976–1980

D. French Slaughter Jr.

1980–1982

Frederick G. Pollard

1982–1987

Joshua P. Darden Jr.

1987–1990

Edward Elliott Elson

1990–1992

Hovey S. Dabney

1992–1998

John P. Ackerly III

1998–2003

Gordon F. Rainey Jr.

2003–2005

Thomas F. Farrell II

2005–2007

W. Heywood Fralin

007–2009

John O. Wynne

2009–2011

Helen E. Dragas

2011–2013

George Keith Martin

2013–2015

William H. Goodwin Jr.

2015–2017

Frank M. Conner III

2017–2019

James B. Murray Jr.

2019–2021

Whittington W. Clement

2021–

**PRESIDENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA**

Edwin Anderson Alderman 1904–1931

John Lloyd Newcomb, Acting President 1931–1933

John Lloyd Newcomb 1933–1947

Colgate Whitehead Darden Jr. 1947–1959

Edgar Finley Shannon Jr. 1959–1974

Frank Loucks Hereford Jr. 1974–1985

Robert Marchant O’Neil 1985–1990

John Thomas Casteen III 1990–2010

Teresa Ann Sullivan 2010–2018

James Edward Ryan 2018–

**PREFACE**

THE UNIVERSITY of Virginia is an educational institution of the Commonwealth of Virginia. It is comprised of three divisions – the Academic Division, the Medical Center, and the College at Wise. The duties and powers of its governing body, the Board of Visitors, are determined and controlled by the statutes of the State, as amended from time-to-time by the General Assembly. The most pertinent statutory provisions are printed in an appendix to this _Manual._ The portions of the Code of Virginia that treat the general organization and governance of the University may be found in Va. Code Sections 23.1-2200 _et seq_. The Board itself, through the _Manual_, which constitutes the corporate bylaws of the University of Virginia, largely determines its internal organization, its procedures of operation, and the responsibilities of the administrative ofﬁcers selected by it to carry out its directives of policy and program. The Appendices included herein are provided for historical and background information and are not part of the corporate bylaws.

On 12 September 1947 the Board adopted a _Manual_ for the purpose of setting forth its powers and duties and those of the principal administrative ofﬁcers in order to “clarify the manner in which the Board and such administrative ofﬁcers shall function.” This _Manual_ was replaced in 1966 by a completely revised edition that, with several amendments, served as the controlling statement of the Board’s procedure and practice until a revised _Manual_ was adopted by the Board on 30 May 1975. This edition of the _Manual_ includes a revised Mission Statement adopted by the Board on November 15, 2013, as well as amendments approved since the 1975 edition. These amendments reﬂect changes in how the Board organizes itself and conducts its business, as well as changes in the administrative structure of the University.

It is hoped that the _Manual_ will give to interested persons, and to new members of the Board in particular, an understanding of the manner in which the Board functions and of its relation to the administrative ofﬁcers. It cannot, of course, convey an adequate impression of the spirit and traditions of the University, which so often guide the decisions of the Board. Nor can it adequately express the resolve that at all times has animated the members of the Board—to realize Mr. Jefferson’s high aspirations for the institution.

The revisions to the _Manual_ in 1966 were done by Mr. Lawrence Lewis Jr. of the Board and by Mr. Weldon Cooper as Secretary to the Board. Mr. Lewis was chairman of the Board committee that compiled the 1975 edition; Mr. Robert P. Buford and Mr. W. Wright Harrison of the Board were members of the committee, as well as Mr. Raymond C. Bice Jr., who was the Board Secretary. Mr. Charles K. Woltz of the Law School faculty acted as consultant to both the 1966 and 1975 committees. Edgar F. Shannon Jr. was President of the University at the time of the 1966 revision, and Frank L. Hereford Jr. was President in 1975.

Further revisions were undertaken in 1991, during the rectorship of Edward Elliott Elson, and in 1997, during the rectorship of Hovey S. Dabney. John T. Casteen III was President of the University in both instances. The 1991 revisions were directed by the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors under the chairmanship of Mr. Elson. The 1997 revisions were done by a special committee of the Board appointed by Mr. Dabney and under the chairmanship of Mr. Champ Clark. Modiﬁcations to these revisions were made in 1998 under the supervision of Mr. Clark and at the beginning of the rectorship of John P. Ackerly III; the Board Secretary, Alexander G. Gilliam Jr., assisted in the 1997 and 1998 revisions.

Work on the edition of the _Manual_ begun in the fall of 2003 was under the rectorship of Gordon F. Rainey Jr., who asked Mr. Don R. Pippin of the Board and Mr. Gilliam to undertake the task. This edition was ap­proved by the Board of Visitors on 31 July 2004. John T. Casteen III was President of the University.

In the spring of 2011, the online version of the _Manual_ was updated to include all amendments approved by the Board of Visitors since the publication of the 2004 edition. Further changes were made in February 2012 adding the Provost as an officer of the Board and updating the list of Board of Visitors. This work was undertaken by Susan G. Harris, Secretary to the Board, and Teresa A. Sullivan was President of the University.

In November 2012, additional changes were made to the online version of the _Manual._ These revisions were recommended to the executive committee by a special committee on governance and engagement formed by Helen E. Dragas, Rector, under the chairmanship of Mr. George Keith Martin and Mr. John L. Nau III, and affirmed by the Board of Visitors at a regular meeting held on 9 November 2012. Ms. Harris assisted in the revisions.

The online version of the _Manual_ was revised further in 2013 and in 2014 to reflect the revised Mission Statement, replacing the 31 May 1985 Statement of Institutional Purpose, along with other revisions.

Further revisions were approved by the Board of Visitors on March 25, 2015, June 12, 2015, September 18, 2015, and February 19, 2016, including restructuring the standing committees of the Board.

On October 1, 2016, the _Manual_ was revised to incorporate changes resulting from the adoption of Title 23.1 of the Code of Virginia by the Virginia General Assembly during the 2016 session. Title 23.1 revised and replaced Title 23.

On June 9, 2017, the Board approved changing the name of the Medical Center Operating Board to the Health System Board, and, effective July 1, 2017, incorporating the statutorily required Commonwealth residency requirements for the Rector or Vice Rector.

On September 15, 2017, the Board approved adding a section to the _Manual_ on appointing a nonvoting faculty representative and revising the section on appointing a nonvoting student representative to conform to the requirements of the authorizing provision of the Code of Virginia.

On December 7, 2018, the Board approved deleting all references to the General Counsel of the University as an officer of the Board of Visitors in response to a determination by the Office of the Attorney General that the General Counsel of the University may not serve as an officer of the Board.

Further revisions were undertaken in September 2022 to add a member and update the charge of the Health System Board, and to correct other outdated provisions.

**MANUAL OF**

**THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE**

**UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA**

1

**MISSION STATEMENT**

_The Faculty Senate, with the concurrence of the President, approved revisions to the University’s mission statement on May 15, 2013, to replace the statement that had been in effect since May 31, 1985.  The Board of Visitors, after making additional modifications, approved the mission statement on November 15, 2013.  The State Council of Higher Education for Virginia (SCHEV) approved the mission statement on January 14, 2014, to be effective 30 days following adjournment of the 2014 General Assembly._   

Purpose

The University of Virginia is a public institution of higher learning guided by a founding vision of discovery, innovation, and development of the full potential of talented students from all walks of life. It serves the Commonwealth of Virginia, the nation, and the world by developing responsible citizen leaders and professionals; advancing, preserving, and disseminating knowledge; and providing world-class patient care.

We are defined by:

*   Our enduring commitment to a vibrant and unique residential learning environment marked by the free and collegial exchange of ideas;
*   Our unwavering support of a collaborative, diverse community bound together by distinctive foundational values of honor, integrity, trust, and respect;
*   Our universal dedication to excellence and affordable access.

  

2

**THE BOARD OF VISITORS**

THE GOVERNING body of the University of Virginia is the Board of Visitors, which by statute is made responsible for seeing to the effective and transparent government of the University at Charlottesville and all other educational institutions under the governance of the Board of Visitors.

SECTION 2.1 CORPORATE NAME AND GOVERNING BODY — The University is a public corporation that by statute bears the name of “The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.” By statute also the governing body of the corporation, which exercises all the powers vested in The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is styled the “Board of Visitors” and shall hereafter be referred to as such or as “Board” in this _Manual._

SECTION 2.2 COMPOSITION — The Board of Visitors is composed of seventeen members appointed by the Governor, subject to conﬁrmation by the Senate and the House of Delegates of Virginia, for terms of four years. Members may be reappointed for one additional four-year term. At least twelve of the seventeen members must be from the Commonwealth at large, at least twelve shall be alumni or alumnae of the University of Virginia, and at least one shall be a physician with administrative and clinical experience in an academic medical center.

The statute provides that for each vacancy on the Board of Visitors, the Alumni Association of the University may propose at least three names to the Governor for possible appointment. Such proposals are advisory only, and the Governor may appoint persons other than those recommended by the Alumni Association. A vacancy on the Board is ﬁlled by the Governor for the unexpired term, subject to conﬁrmation by the Senate and the House of Delegates. A person ﬁlling an unexpired term may be reappointed by the Governor for two additional four-year terms.

SECTION 2.21 STUDENT NONVOTING REPRESENTATIVE — In addition to those members appointed by the Governor and referred to in Section 2.2, the Board of Visitors at the first regular meeting of the second semester of the academic session each year shall appoint for a term of one year, on recommendation of the Executive Committee, a full-time student at the University of Virginia as a nonvoting, advisory representative to the Board of Visitors. The student representative may attend and participate in a nonvoting capacity in all deliberations and meetings, in Open and Closed Session, of the standing and special committees of the Board as well as meetings of the Board of Visitors itself unless the Board has deemed it appropriate to exclude the student representative from discussions of faculty grievances, faculty or staff disciplinary matters or salaries, or any other matter.

SECTION 2.22 FACULTY NONVOTING REPRESENTATIVE — In addition to those members appointed by the Governor and referred to in Section 2.2, the Board of Visitors at its spring meeting may appoint a nonvoting, advisory faculty representative to the Board of Visitors for a term of one year commencing July 1. Such representative shall be chosen from individuals elected by the faculty or by the faculty senate. The faculty representative may attend and participate in a nonvoting capacity in all deliberations and meetings, in Open and Closed Session, of the standing and special committees of the Board as well as meetings of the Board of Visitors itself unless the Board has deemed it appropriate to exclude the faculty representative from discussions of faculty grievances, faculty or staff disciplinary matters or salaries, or any other matter.

SECTION 2.23 VISITORS EMERITI — In recognition of the invaluable service they render to the University during their terms of ofﬁce and the informed counsel they may continue to provide after their terms expire, former Members of the Board shall be designated Visi­tors Emeriti.

SECTION 2.24 REMOVAL — If any member of the Board fails to attend (i) the meetings of the Board for one year without sufficient cause, as determined by a majority vote of the Board, or (ii) the educational programs required by Virginia Code § 23.1-1304 in the first two years of membership without sufficient cause, as determined by a majority vote of the Board, the remaining members of the Board shall record such failure in the minutes at its next meeting and notify the Governor, and the office of such member shall be vacated.

In addition, members with more than two years of service on the Board of Visitors shall participate in further training on board governance at least once every two years. No member who fails to attend the educational programs required by § [23.1-1304](https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1304/) during his or her first four-year term is eligible for reappointment to the Board of Visitors.

Members appointed by the Governor to the Board of Visitors shall continue to hold office until their successors have been appointed and qualified.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Virginia Code § 23.1-1300 E or any other provision of law, the Governor may remove from office for malfeasance, misfeasance, incompetence, or gross neglect of duty, any member of the Board and fill the vacancy resulting from the removal.

SECTION 2.3 MEETINGS — Meetings of the Board are of three kinds: the Annual Meeting, regular meetings, and special meetings. Discussions and actions on any topic not specifically exempted by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act shall be held in an open meeting, which shall be open to the public. Any official action taken in Closed Session shall be approved in an open meeting before it can have any force or effect.

SECTION 2.31 THE ANNUAL MEETING — The one meeting each year required by statute is known as the Annual Meeting and is required to be held at the University at Charlottesville. At this meeting the Board elects an Executive Committee, and reviews and decides on such other matters as may come before it. The Rector announces committee assignments and the committee chairs at the Annual Meeting. The date for the Annual Meeting is prescribed by the Board at the Annual Meeting in the preceding calendar year. On the recommenda­tion of the Rector and the President, the date and time of the Annual Meeting may be changed by the Executive Committee.

SECTION 2.32 REGULAR MEETINGS — There shall be such other regular meetings of the Board of Visitors each year as the Board may determine. These meetings shall be held on such dates and at such places for the succeeding year as the Board shall determine no later than the Annual Meeting each year. The time, date, and place of a regular meeting may be changed by a quorum of the Board of Visitors or by the Executive Committee.

SECTION 2.33 SPECIAL MEETINGS — Special meetings of the Board may be called by the Rector or by any three Visitors at such dates, times, and places as may be speciﬁed in the call for the meeting. No matter may be considered at any special meeting that was not included in the call of that meeting except by a two-thirds vote of the Visitors present at the meeting.

SECTION 2.34 NOTICE OF MEETINGS — Due notice in writing of the Annual Meeting and all regular meetings and of any changes in the dates, times, or places of a regular meeting shall be given by the Secretary to the Board of Visitors. Such written notice shall be posted publicly at least seven calendar days prior to the meeting and may be done through electronic communication means. Written notice of all special meetings shall be posted publicly by the Secretary at least ﬁve calendar days in advance of the meeting. All notices of a special meeting shall indicate the item or items of business to be considered. Public notice of meetings shall comply with the requirements of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act.

SECTION 2.35 QUORUM — A quorum for the conduct of business by the full Board of Visitors shall consist of ﬁve members of the Board (as required by statute) except in those instances where other statutory provisions, as, for example, in the consideration of revenue bond issues, may require a larger number for the transaction of particular items of business. A quorum for the Executive Committee and all standing and special committees of the Board of Visitors shall consist of one-third of the appointed members of the committee, except that in no case shall the number be fewer than three members. The quorum must be physically assembled at one primary or central meeting location, except as specifically authorized by Virginia Code § 2.2-3708.3 regarding meetings held by electronic communication means.

SECTION 2.36 TELEPHONIC OR VIDEO PARTICIPATION — Telephonic or video meetings of the Board and its committees, including those held in Closed Session, may be held as long as proper and timely public notiﬁcation of the meeting has been given and the meeting complies with the provisions of state law and University policy regarding meetings held through electronic communication means. Arrangements for all meetings, including telephonic or video meetings, must be coordinated with the Secretary.

SECTION 2.37 DOCKETS — For the Annual Meeting and each regular meeting, the Secretary shall prepare, under the supervision of the Rector and the President, a docket comprising such matters as the Board, the Rector, the President, and the chair of each standing committee shall refer for consideration. This docket shall include all the agenda items to be considered by the Board and its committees at such meetings that are known by the Rector, the President, and the Secretary at the time the docket is prepared. After receiving the Rector’s approval, a copy of this docket, to be called the Regular Docket, shall be provided to each member of the Board at least seven calendar days prior to the meeting of the Board. Consideration of matters not appearing on the Regular Docket shall require the consent of two-thirds of the Visitors present. The notice of a special meeting containing a list of the items to be considered shall take the place of the Regular Docket at a special meeting.

SECTION 2.38 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS — The principles of procedure prescribed in Roberts’ _Rules of Order_ shall provide guidance for the conduct of meetings.

SECTION 2.4 POWERS AND DUTIES — The powers and duties conferred upon the Board are to be exercised for the purpose of carrying into effect the Mission Statement contained in Chapter 1. The major powers and duties are

1.  the preservation of the ideals and traditions of the University and particularly encouragement of the maintenance of the Honor System by the student body;
2.  the establishment of general education policy;
3.  the authorization of the establishment of any additional center, branch, college, or school and, when necessary, the presentation of such action to the State Council of Higher Education, for its recommendation, and to the General Assembly, for its approval;

4 the authorization of the creation or discontinuation of degrees;

5 the election of a Rector, Vice Rector, President, Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, Provost, and Secretary and the election of salaried members of the faculty, except for those faculty members designated by the President during the period between meetings of the Board of Visitors, whose elections may be formally ratiﬁed by the Board at its next regular meeting (the foregoing, however, is subject to the provisions of Section 4.22);

6 the determination of the salary ranges for all faculty ranks and the establishment of insurance, retirement, and other programs for the faculty’s beneﬁt;

7 the establishment or discontinuation of any faculty rank;

8 the approval of promotions of faculty members;

9 the establishment of named chairs;

10 the regulation of the government and discipline of students and the renting of rooms and dormitories;

11 the approval of general policy governing student scholarships and loans;

12 the establishment of scholarships by the remission of tuition within guidelines established by the State for undergraduate students of character and ability in need of ﬁnancial assistance;

13 the ﬁxing of tuition charges, other fees, and room rentals;

14 the issuance of revenue bonds to ﬁnance projects required by or convenient for the purposes of the students under its control;

15 the approval of regulations relating to the use of automobiles by students;

16 the care and preservation of all property belong­ing to the University;

17 the purchase of real estate;

18 the sale, with the approval of the Governor, of any real estate acquired by purchase, will, or deed of gift;

19 the granting of easements for roads, streets, sew­ers, water lines, utility lines, or other purposes;

20 the exercise of the power of eminent domain;

21 provision for the submission of such reports and budget requests as may be required by the ap­propriate agency of the State Government;

22 the approval of the annual budget;

23 the formulation and periodic revision of long-range plans;

24 the election, on nomination of and with the con­currence of the President, of the Vice Presidents of the University and the chief executive ofﬁcer of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise, this ofﬁcer having the title of Chancellor, all of whom are directly responsible to the President; and

25 the exercise of other powers conferred on cor­porations by the provisions of Title 13.1 of the Code of Virginia.

3

**THE COMMITTEE SYSTEM**

THE COMMITTEE system of the Board shall be composed of the Executive Committee, standing committees, and special committees. The Secretary to the Board shall serve as the secretary of each committee, keep the minutes of the meetings of the committees, and perform such other duties as the committees may require. The President shall make provision for such additional consultative services as may be requested by a committee chairman. In addition to the appointed members, the Rector shall be an ex ofﬁcio member of all standing and special committees.

SECTION 3.1 THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE — At each Annual Meeting the Board shall elect from among its membership an Executive Committee composed of at least three and not more than seven members. These members shall consist of the Rector, who shall serve as chair, the Vice Rector, who shall serve as vice chair, and no more than five other Visitors to be elected by the Board. Nominations for these positions on the Executive Committee may be made by any Visitor, and if there are more than five nominations, a vote shall be taken, and the results shall be announced jointly by the Rector and the Secretary. Any vacancy on the Executive Committee shall be ﬁlled for the unexpired term at the next regular meeting of the Board and by vote if there is more than one nomination.

The Executive Committee shall meet upon the call of the Rector. It shall consider all matters referred to it by the Rector, the Vice Rector, or the President and shall, in the interim between meetings of the Board, be vested with the powers and authority of the full Board and shall take such action on all matters that may be referred to it as in its judgment is required. All such actions taken by the Executive Committee in the interim between meetings of the Board shall require a two-thirds vote of the whole number of committee members, and their actions shall be reported to the Board at the next regular meeting and shall, if conﬁrmation is required, be conﬁrmed and approved by the Board at that time.

In addition to the above, the Executive Committee shall organize the working processes of the Board and recommend best practices for governance to the Board. More specifically, the Executive Committee shall:

1.  Develop and recommend to the Board a statement of governance setting out the Board’s role;
2.  Periodically review the _Manual_ and recommend amendments;
3.  Provide advice to the Board on committee structure, appointments, and meetings;
4.  Develop an orientation and continuing education process for Visitors that includes training on the Virginia Freedom of Information Act;
5.  Create, monitor, oversee, and review compliance with a code of ethics for Visitors; and
6.  Develop a set of qualifications and competencies for membership on the Board for approval by the Board and recommendation to the Governor.

As part of its responsibilities, the Executive Committee shall work with the President to encourage and support an atmosphere at the University that ensures that diverse members of the University of Virginia and Charlottesville communities are treated equally and fairly. This is essential to creating an educational experience for students to prepare them for productive and responsible citizenship in the world beyond the University community. This responsibility includes encouraging and supporting the attraction and retention of a diverse group of students, faculty, and staff. “Diverse” includes race and ethnicity, age, gender, disability status, sexual orientation, religion and national origin, socio-economic status, and other aspects of individual experience and identity.

On behalf of the Board, the Executive Committee shall be responsible for working with the University administration on communication strategies and messaging with respect to emerging and urgent issues including informing and educating policy makers and regulatory oversight organizations and bodies.

SECTION 3.2 STANDING COMMITTEES — The standing committees of the Board of Visitors shall consist of the Finance Committee, Buildings and Grounds Com­mittee, Academic and Student Life Committee, Audit, Compliance, and Risk Committee, Advancement Committee, Committee on The University of Virginia’s College at Wise, and the Health System Board. The number to be appointed to each standing committee shall be determined by the Rector at the time of appointment. However, no committee shall consist of fewer than three members.

The standing committees shall be appointed by the Rector at the Annual Meeting each year, and at the time of appointment the Rector shall designate the chair of each committee. A vacancy on any committee shall be ﬁlled by the Rector for the unexpired term, and the Rector shall have the power to change the membership of any standing committee at any time. Each standing committee shall meet at the call of the chair, the Rector, the Vice Rector, or the President, and shall consider such matters as may be referred to it by these ofﬁcers or by members of the committee.

The Secretary shall prepare a docket for each committee meeting and shall attend the meeting.

In addition to the duties of the standing committees as listed below, each committee shall consider such other matters as may be referred to it by the Board, the Rector, the Vice Rector, the President, or the chair, and shall make its report and recommendations as required to the Board, to the President, and, upon the request of the Rector, to the Executive Committee. No standing committee has power or authority to commit the Board to any policy or action unless speciﬁcally granted such power or authority by the Board. In such cases, a report of ﬁnal action by any committee shall be made at the next regular meeting of the Board and, if conﬁrmation is required, shall be conﬁrmed and approved by the Board at that time.

On motion of any member, any grant to a committee of power or authority to commit the Board shall be reviewed by the Board, at which time it may be modiﬁed or rescinded by majority vote of the members present without complying with the requirements for amending this _Manual_.

SECTION 3.21 FINANCE COMMITTEE — The Finance Committee shall be responsible in all matters relating to the University’s ﬁnancial affairs and business operations. It shall review and approve the annual budget and the setting of tuition rates, student fees, and other student charges for recommendation to the Board. On behalf of the Board, it shall establish metrics and monitor programs for organizational excellence, approve the investment of endowment and other funds and the purchase of real and personal property, and it shall make progress reports to the Board on its actions.

The committee shall maintain liaison with the University of Virginia Investment Management Company, a nonproﬁt, nonstock corporation organized under Virginia law to provide investment and investment management and related services to the University of Virginia and shall monitor and review periodically the performance of the Company.

The Finance Committee shall be responsible for all matters relating to funding research programs and partnerships of the University. The scope shall include all forms of research funding: external and internal sources of research support, startup packages for faculty, and commercialization activities and translational research. The committee may offer guidance on such issues as strategic investments in research, the infrastructure for research, strategic partnerships that enhance research capability and impact, and intellectual property policies.

SECTION 3.22 BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE — The Buildings and Grounds Committee shall have responsibility in matters relating to land use and the physical plant. It shall be responsible for land use planning and acquisition policy as well as exercising oversight over the use of space and the care, maintenance, and security of the University’s buildings and grounds including furnishings and equipment; the selection of architects and engineers and the siting, construction, and naming of buildings; and such other matters relating to the buildings and grounds of the University as may come before it. On behalf of the Board, it shall approve the siting and design of new buildings and shall make progress reports to the Board on its actions.

SECTION 3.23 ACADEMIC AND STUDENT LIFE COMMITTEE — The Academic and Student Life Com­mittee shall have oversight of matters relating to athletics, culture and safety, educational policy, and research programs. The committee shall oversee matters relating to student conduct, residential and social life, extracurricular activities, food services, health, and such other matters relating to student affairs as may be brought to its attention; and athletic policy and programs, both intramural and intercollegiate.

In exercising its responsibilities for educational policy and research programs, the committee shall have re­sponsibility in all matters relating to educational and research policies and programs except for those matters subject to the oversight of the Health System Board. The committee shall exercise oversight over the proposal of new degrees and educational programs by the President, the conditions affecting the recruitment and retention of faculty members, the adequacy of instructional and research facilities, and such other matters relating to the educational policies and programs as may be brought before it by the President or Provost or referred to it by the Board.

SECTION 3.24 AUDIT, COMPLIANCE, AND RISK COMMITTEE — The Audit, Compliance, and Risk Committee shall have oversight responsibility for internal audit, compliance, and enterprise risk management programs for the academic and medical center divisions, as it relates to financial, operational, compliance, strategic, and reputational risks. The committee shall have direct access to internal and external auditors to assess performance, the scope of audit activities, and the adequacy of internal accounting controls. The committee shall review, at least annually, the institution’s risk governance framework including the risk assessment and mitigation strategies. The committee also shall receive periodic reports on other such audit, compliance, and risk matters from the State auditor, senior management, and the institution’s internal audit, compliance, and enterprise risk management leaders. Such leaders shall also have direct access to the board.

SECTION 3.25 ADVANCEMENT COMMITTEE — The Advancement Committee shall have responsibility in all matters pertaining to University development, alumni affairs, and public communications. This responsibility shall include the oversight of University capital campaigns, branding efforts, commemorations, and all other programs that promote the University publicly and with alumni and friends. As part of this responsibility, the committee’s oversight includes the University-related foundations and their activities to raise funds on behalf of the University.

SECTION 3.26 THE COMMITTEE ON THE UNIVER­SITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE — The Com­mittee on The University of Virginia’s College at Wise is charged with the oversight of the College and the ad­vancement of its mission and with bringing its needs and concerns to the attention of the Board of Visitors. The committee will assist the Chancellor in carrying out the Chancellor’s duties and will further the goals of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise.

SECTION 3.27 THE HEALTH SYSTEM BOARD — The Health System Board is charged with oversight of the operations of the Medical Center and the Transitional Care Hospital for Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospital Organization purposes, as delegated by the Board of Visitors. The Health System Board shall further provide governance and strategic oversight for the various subsidiaries and affiliates of the Medical Center, including UVA Community Health, Inc., and for the School of Medicine and the School of Nursing.

The Rector shall serve as a voting member, and he shall appoint six other members of the Board of Visitors, including the chair, to serve as voting members of the Health System Board; one of these six members shall be the chair of the Finance Committee and at least one of these six members shall be a physician with administrative and clinical experience in an academic medical center. The Board of Visitors may appoint no more than six public members of the Health System Board to serve for terms not to exceed four years. The President of the University, the Executive Vice President and Provost of the University, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University, the Executive Vice President for Health Affairs, the Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center, the Dean of the School of Medicine, the Dean of the School of Nursing, and the President of the Clinical Staff of the Medical Center shall serve as ex-officio non-voting advisory members.

SECTION 3.3 SPECIAL COMMITTEES — Special com­mittees may be constituted at any time by the Rector. The Rector shall determine the membership and the number of members to be appointed to special committees, which shall have a life of not to exceed one year unless renewed for a speciﬁed period by the Rector and the Board at the Annual Meeting.

4

**OFFICERS OF THE BOARD**

The Ofﬁcers of the Board of Visitors shall consist of the Rector of the University of Virginia, the Vice Rector, the President of the University, the Chief Operating Ofﬁcer of the University, the Provost of the University, and the Secretary to the Board of Visitors.

SECTION 4.1 THE RECTOR AND VICE RECTOR OF THE UNIVERSITY — The Rector of the University is es­pecially charged with the duty of maintaining that level of interest and activity among the members of the Board of Visitors as will best contribute to the determination of broad policies, wise planning for the future, intelligent and considerate observance of the rights of the faculty and the student body, including the care and preservation of the Honor System, and maintenance of the independence of the Board from outside inﬂuences harmful to the interests of the students and faculty of the University. The Vice Rector shall act in the Rector’s stead in fulﬁlling these obligations.

SECTION 4.11 TERMS OF OFFICE, ELECTION, AND REMOVAL — The Rector and Vice Rector shall serve terms of two years, commencing 1 July of the ﬁrst year and ending 30 June of the last year. At the conclusion of the Rector’s term of ofﬁce, the Vice Rector shall succeed the Rector and serve for two years in that ofﬁce.

At its regular meeting closest to 30 June every two years, the Board shall elect a Vice Rector from among its members to succeed the Rector, as hereinabove provided. The Rector or Vice Rector of the Board of Visitors shall be a resident of the Commonwealth. At the election meeting, the election shall be by majority vote of the members present following nominations, and the Secretary shall serve as the presiding ofﬁcer until an election is accomplished unless the Board decides to appoint another presiding ofﬁcer. The Secretary shall count the votes and announce the election of the Vice Rector.

The Rector or Vice Rector may be removed by a vote of two-thirds of the whole number of Visitors at a regular meeting, or special meeting called for this purpose.

SECTION 4.12 POWERS AND DUTIES — The Rector shall be the presiding ofﬁcer of the Board of Visitors at all of its meetings; in the Rector’s absence, the Vice Rector shall serve in that capacity. The Rector shall have the power, unless otherwise directed by the Board, to ﬁx the order of business, appoint all standing and special committees (except the Executive Committee), and require the proper preservation of a record of the Board’s proceedings by the Secretary. Without diminishing the right of individual Visitors to publicly express their personal views, the Rector, unless otherwise determined by the Board or the Rector, shall act as spokesperson for the Board of Visitors. The Rector and Vice Rector shall perform such additional duties as may be imposed on their ofﬁces by statute or by the direction of the Board. The Rector may delegate specified duties to the Vice Rector.

Whenever the ofﬁce of the President becomes vacant or a vacancy is impending, the Rector shall appoint a Special Committee on the Nomination of a President from among the membership of the Board to seek and recommend to the Board a person to ﬁll the vacancy. This special committee shall be under the chairmanship of the Rector, and the committee shall consist of no fewer than ﬁve members.

SECTION 4.13 VACANCIES — Vacancies in the ofﬁces of Rector and Vice Rector shall be ﬁlled by the Board for the unexpired terms, following the procedure set forth in Section 4.11. If the cause of the vacancies is the expiration of the Rector’s or the Vice Rector’s terms as members of the Board, the vacancies shall be ﬁlled at the ﬁrst meeting called for that purpose, at which meeting a quorum shall consist of eleven Visitors.

SECTION 4.14 RECTOR _PRO TEMPORE_ — In the ab­sence of the Rector and Vice Rector from any meeting or in the event of their disability or of vacancy in ofﬁce, the chair of the Finance Committee shall serve as Rector _pro tempore_. If the chair of the Finance Committee is absent or is unable to serve, the Board shall elect a Rector _pro tempore_ for that meeting.

SECTION 4.2 THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY — The President of the University shall be the principal administrative officer of the University. The President also serves as the chief executive officer of the Academic Division. The President shall be a member of the General Faculty and of the faculty of the College and of each of the schools of the University.

SECTION 4.21 ELECTION, APPOINTMENT, AND REMOVAL — The President shall be elected by the Board of Visitors. Appointment, removal, requested resignation, or amendment of the contract or terms of employment of the President may be accomplished only by vote of a majority (or, by statute, two-thirds in the case of removal) of the whole number of Visitors at a regular meeting, or special meeting called for this purpose. The President shall attend all meetings of the Board and shall have notice of and the privilege of attending all meetings of its committees.

SECTION 4.22 POWERS AND DUTIES — As the principal administrative officer of the University and chief executive officer of the Academic Division, the President shall have the following powers and duties:

1 The President shall have responsibility for the operation of the University in conformity with the purposes and policies determined by the Board;

2 The President shall act as adviser to the Board and shall have responsibility for recommending to it for consideration those policies and programs which in the opinion of the President will best promote the interests of the University;

3 The President shall recommend to the Board long-range educational goals and programs and the new degrees that may be best suited to attain those goals and programs;

4 The President shall have the power to establish and modify as he or she deems necessary the internal administrative structure of the University and shall appoint or provide for the appointment of all administrative ofﬁcers except for the Vice Presidents and the Chancellor of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise, making a report of his or her actions thereon to the Board at the next regular meeting;

5 The President shall serve as President of the Faculty Senate of the University and of the Faculty Senate of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise;

6 The President shall have primary responsibility for the establishment and maintenance of proper relationships with the alumni;

7 The President shall at all times maintain cordial relationships with the students, guarding and protecting their best interests;

8 The President shall use particular efforts to preserve and foster the Honor System;

9 The President shall be responsible for the discipline of students with the power to impose appropriate penalties including expulsion;

10 The President shall submit to the Board each year an annual budget for the operation of the University for the following ﬁscal year and shall prepare and submit to the Governor a biennial budget request as required by law or regulation;

11 The President shall promote the development of the endowment funds of the University and shall be authorized to accept any gift or grant subject to the approval of the Governor as required, making a report to the Board of such gifts or grants; and

12 The President shall perform such other duties as may be required by the Board.

SECTION 4.3 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER — The Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, who is elected by the Board of Visitors on the nomination of the President of the University, is an Ofﬁcer of the Board. The Chief Operating Ofﬁcer shall have supervision of the ﬁnancial affairs of all colleges, schools, and divisions of the University and shall advise the Board of Visitors and the President, under whose immediate direction he or she shall be, on all ﬁnancial matters affecting the University. Subject to the direction of the Board and the President, the Chief Operating Ofﬁcer shall prescribe accounting procedures and practices for the disbursement of all funds, promulgate management policies and procedures for auxiliary services and operations, and institute budgetary policies and controls that will assure the faithful execution of the budgets. The Chief Operating Ofﬁcer shall see that no expenditures are made without proper authorization. In addition, he or she shall advise the Board of Visitors and its committees on all matters relating to the duties of his or her ofﬁce. The Chief Operating Ofﬁcer shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board or the President.

SECTION 4.4 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE PROVOST — The Provost, who is elected by the Board of Visitors on the nomination of the President, shall serve as the chief academic officer of the University reporting to the President, and shall have supervision over the academic affairs of the colleges, schools, and divisions of the University. The Provost shall advise the Board of Visitors and the President on all academic matters, including recommending strategic direction for the teaching and research missions of the University. The Provost shall serve as the chief personnel officer for academic faculty, and with the concurrence of the President, shall recommend to the Board of Visitors the election and initial compensation of salaried members of the faculty holding professorial rank or named chairs, promotions of faculty members to the ranks of associate professor, full professor, and professor emeritus, and the removal of faculty members for cause. The Provost shall appoint instructors at the first salary step and shall reappoint lecturers after an initial election by the Board. The Provost shall be authorized, after consultation with the dean, department head, and other affected administrative officers, to suspend any faculty member at any time for proper cause. The Provost shall share administrative oversight of the University’s budget, working closely with the President and the Chief Operating Officer on the allocation of resources. The Provost shall advise the Board of Visitors and its committees on all matters relating to the duties of his or her office and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned by the Board or the President.

SECTION 4.5 SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS —Upon the nomination of the President and the Rector in concurrence, the Board of Visitors shall elect a Secretary to serve for a term of four years or until his or her successor is elected.

Any vacancy in the ofﬁce shall be ﬁlled for the unexpired term in the same manner as election for the full term.

SECTION 4.51 POWERS AND DUTIES — The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Visitors and its committees and shall record the minutes of all proceedings. The Secretary shall prepare minutes of such meetings that, after approval by the Board, shall be recorded in the permanent records of the Board of Visitors. He or she shall give proper notice of all meetings of the Board, shall preserve as directed all documents or papers pertaining to the actions of the Board, and shall keep in safe custody the Seal of the University, which he or she shall afﬁx to any instrument when authorized by the Board or persons designated by it, including the Rector, the Vice Rector, the President, or the Chief Operating Ofﬁcer. In addition to the foregoing, the Secretary shall perform those functions and have those duties or responsibilities which are usual to the duties of a secretary and shall assist the Board of Visitors in the discharge of its ofﬁcial duties. The Secretary shall, under the immediate direc­tion of the President, perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board, the Vice Rector, the Rector, or the President.

5

**MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS**

SECTION 5.1 APPEALS TO THE BOARD — The Board at its discretion shall consider such appeals as are provided for in the University regulations and procedures except that in no event shall the Board consider an appeal from a decision of the Honor Committee involving an honor offense.

SECTION 5.2 RETIREMENT — The President, Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, Provost, and Secretary shall relinquish their positions as Ofﬁcers of the Board upon retirement or resignation from their administrative duties.

SECTION 5.3 COMMUNICATIONS TO THE BOARD — All communications of an ofﬁcial nature directed to the Board of Visitors shall be channeled through the ofﬁce of the President. All communications of an ofﬁcial nature from the Board of Visitors shall be similarly channeled, or copies thereof shall be furnished to the President.

SECTION 5.4 MINUTES OF BOARD MEETINGS — The minutes of the annual, regular, and special meetings of the Board shall be open to inspection as required by law and posted on the Board’s website.

SECTION 5.41 CLERK OF THE BOARD — The Presi­dent may appoint a Clerk of the Board to provide ad­ministrative and clerical support to the Secretary, the President, the Rector, and members of the Board in ful­ﬁlling their responsibilities as prescribed in this _Manual._ The Clerk shall serve under the direction and supervision of the Secretary and at the pleasure of the President.

SECTION 5.5 EXECUTION OF INSTRUMENTS — The Rector, the Vice Rector, the President, the Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, and other persons designated and authorized by the Board of Visitors shall execute, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, any instrument that may require the name of the corporation to be signed thereto, and the Secretary to the Board shall have authority to afﬁx the seal of the corporation to any such instrument and to deliver it to the party entitled to receive it.

SECTION 5.6 ASSIGNMENT OF SECURITIES — The Rector, the Vice Rector, the President, the Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, and other persons designated and authorized by the Board of Visitors shall have authority to sell, assign, and transfer any and all stocks, bonds, evidences of indebtedness or interest thereon, rights and options to acquire or sell the same, and all other securities, corporate or otherwise, standing in the name or belonging to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in any capacity. The same persons have authority to give the assent of the corporation to mergers, consolidations, agreements for a deposit of stock, or for reorganization of any corporation or corporations in which the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia as a corporation may have an interest.

SECTION 5.7 THE _MANUAL_ — The _Manual of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia_ sets forth the Board’s powers and duties and those of its ofﬁcers in order to clarify the manner in which the Board and such ofﬁcers shall function. As the controlling statement of the Board’s procedure and practice, the _Manual_ constitutes the bylaws of the corporation.

SECTION 5.8 DISTRIBUTION OF THE _MANUAL_ — A copy of this _Manual_ and any amendments that may be made thereto shall be provided by the Secretary to each member of the Board and to each new member of the Board immediately following his or her appointment to the Board.

SECTION 5.9 AMENDMENTS TO THE _MANUAL_ — This _Manual_ may be amended at any regular meeting of the Board by a majority vote of all the members of the Board provided that the proposed amendment has been submitted to the Executive Committee and its views on the amendment have been submitted to the Board and that notice of the amendment was included in the regular notice of the meeting.

SECTION 5.10 EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE _MANUAL_ — The provisions of this _Manual_ shall go into effect on September 16, 2022. As of their effective date, these provisions shall supersede all prior actions of the Board that are in­consistent with them.

The online version of the _Manual_ contains all amendments through September 16, 2022.

**APPENDICES**

A

**THOMAS JEFFERSON ON**

**HIGHER EDUCATION**

DOCUMENTS RELATIVE TO

THE FOUNDING OF

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

1

INTRODUCTION

_John Cook Wyllie, Director of Libraries_

Printed here are the basic documents relative to the founding of the University of Virginia. Thomas Jefferson’s hand is transparently clear in all of these, but a word on the text is in order.

The two statutes (one at the beginning printed in excerpt and the one at the end in full) are taken from the annual volumes of the _Acts_ of the Virginia General Assembly. The Rockﬁsh Gap documents are a reprint of the only surviving copy now known of the _Proceedings and Report of the Commissioners for the University of Virginia,_ a pamphlet separately printed in 1818 for the use of the members of the Virginia House of Delegates. This pamphlet is now for the ﬁrst time completely reprinted, although portions of it have frequently been reproduced from other texts. Of the earlier printings, two before this one have been made by or for the Board of Visitors, one during the Rectorship of Jefferson, one during the Rectorship of A. H. H. Stuart, son of the Archibald Stuart who sat on the Board of Commissioners with Jefferson and cast one of the two votes to locate the University in Staunton.

Jefferson’s own reprint of 1824 omitted, obviously by intention, the details of the contingent gifts to the University which depended upon the site chosen. These details were by law required in the 1818 Report, but in 1824 a proper regard for the feelings of the under bidder in the non-auction, or a decent respect for the pride of a sister educational institution, may have inﬂuenced the Rector in this editorial excision.

Only indifferent proofreading on the part of the eighty-one-year-old Rector can, however, explain the other deviations in the 1824 text. Of substantive changes, there were two instances of multiple word omission (three, if the printing of the ﬁnal statute is included), and the earliest of these does at ﬁrst glance look like an editorial honing away of unnecessary wordage: the original “Act appropriating part of the revenue of the Literary Fund” became, in 1824, “Act appropriating part of the Literary Fund.” Textually unimportant as this change might seem, its existence clariﬁes the lengthy omission some pages later of the last nine words in the expression “speciﬁcation of languages to be taught by the Professor of modern languages.” This excision might be mistaken for a change in plan with respect to one of the professorships. Instead, considered in juxtaposition with the earlier excision, one may say with certainty that the compositor who set the type in 1824 had the bad habit of skipping from one line of a text to the next line when the same word occurred in both. In the ﬁrst instance, he skipped from one “of” to another; in the second, from one “languages” to another.

This is the justiﬁcation for not using as a copy text the last form that came under Jefferson’s editorial supervision. The later miscellaneous changes (including the reduction of a portion of some post tabular comments to a lengthy footnote) are, in short, clearly the printer’s, not the author’s.

Ten printings of the Rockﬁsh Gap documents have been located, only one of these done in the present century. The earliest, the cleanest (“place” was substituted for “plan” on page 10 \[page 45 of this printing\] and three obvious typographical errors \[here corrected\] were made), and the most complete is reprinted here from a pamphlet of 30 pages printed in December 1818 by Thomas Ritchie, Printer for the Commonwealth, in 500 copies by order of the House of Delegates. The late Dr. E. G. Swem (_Bibliography of Virginia,_ 1917, No. 9014) knew this had been printed but was unable to locate a copy.

This was closely followed by a pamphlet of 14 pages printed in 1818 by John Warrock, Printer to the Senate, in 150 copies by order of the Senate. Dr. Swem (No. 9041) also knew of this, but again was unable to locate a copy. It included the Report in extenso but omitted the Proceedings of the Commissioners, the letter of transmittal, and the supplementary statement regarding gifts.

The Proceedings and Report (without their ancillary documents) were ﬁrst reprinted at other than public expense by Thomas Ritchie in his _Richmond Enquirer_ (XV, No. 63) for 10 December 1818, with the comment that the Report “is, we believe, with a few variations, from the ever luminous pen of Thomas Jefferson.” Presumably from this source, it was copied in the Philadelphia _Analectic Magazine,_ XIII (February 1819), 103–16, where the editor commented that “the report is said to be from the pen of Mr. Jefferson.”

Next followed the two journal printings of the House (Swem No. 9011, which omitted the supplementary material referred to in Jefferson’s letter of transmittal) and of the Senate (Swem No. 9039, which included only the Report).

Jefferson’s own reprint, a pamphlet of 29 pages printed in Charlottesville in 1824 by C. P. McKennie, was sold by the University Proctor for 121⁄2 cents (the 2 coin was known as the “one bit” piece before it disappeared from our coinage, leaving its name only with its twin) and was so advertised on the _Explanations, of the Ground Plan of the University_ which accompanied the Maverick Plan.

N. F. Cabell (great-grandson of the Joseph C. Cabell who received the original draft as well as one of the man­uscript copies sent to the Assembly in 1818) printed the Report without its ancillary documents as Appendix I to his _Early History of the University of Virginia_ (Richmond, 1856), pp. 432–47; and Roy J. Honeywell reprinted this as Appendix J in _The Educational Work of Thomas Jefferson_ (Cambridge, 1931), pp. 248–60, with the annotation that it was “written by Jefferson before the meeting and was adopted by the commissioners with only minor changes.”

Only one further reprinting, in Richmond in 1879, has been located. The Report appeared then on pages 7–17 of the _Annual Report of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia for the ﬁscal year ending May 31, 1879._

Jefferson’s report is often cited (sometimes as the “Rockﬁsh Report,” sometimes as the “Rockﬁsh Gap Report”), but although it is quite signiﬁcant in the history of pedagogics, it has never appeared among Jefferson’s collected writings, and even its authorship has in part been thrown into question by the quotation

out of context of the comment in Jefferson’s letter of 20 November 1818, to Joseph C. Cabell, that the Report was “written in great haste, and by several hands, dividing the work.”

When Jefferson wrote these words, he was referring to the handwritten copies of the Report produced for the House and Senate in a year of grace before Xerox. These copies, one of which may still be seen in the Virginia State Archives in Richmond, were written out by pen in great haste, with several people dividing the parts to be copied.

The Report itself bears the authentic marks of Jefferson’s single authorship, not the evidence of haste and collaboration. It is a careful statement resulting from a lifetime’s contemplation of a subject of central importance to the author. For this reason, the present printing has been entitled “Thomas Jefferson on Higher Education.” If there is a lingering doubt in anyone’s mind as to the accuracy of this title on the grounds of authorship, it can be allayed by an examination of the working draft, entirely in Jefferson’s hand, of the chief documents involved. This working draft is now in the Jefferson Papers of the University of Virginia Library.

2

THE STATUTE OF 1818

CHAPTER XI.—An act appropriating part of the rev­enue of the Literary Fund, and for other purposes

\[Passed February 21st, 1818.\]

1.  _Be it enacted by the General Assembly . . ._ \[The ﬁrst seven sections concern matters other than the Uni­versity.\]

8\. _Be it further enacted,_ That there shall be estab­lished, in some convenient and proper part of the State, a university to be called, “The University of Virginia,”— wherein all the branches of useful science shall be taught. In order to aid the Legislature in ascertaining the perma­nent scite of the said University, and in organizing it, there shall be appointed without delay by the Executive of this Commonwealth twenty-four discreet and intelli­gent persons, who shall constitute a board to be called “The board of commissioners for the University.” One member of the said board shall be appointed from each of the Senatorial districts, as they were arranged, by an act of the last session of the Legislature. If any person so appointed shall fail or refuse to act, his place shall be supplied from the same district, by appointment of the president and directors of the literary fund. The said board shall meet on the ﬁrst day of August next at the tavern in Rockﬁsh gap on the Blue Ridge for the purpose of performing the duties hereby assigned to them. At least three-fourths of the whole number shall be neces­sary to form a board for the transaction of business; but any smaller number may adjourn from day to day, until a quorum shall attend. The said board, when assembled, shall have power to adjourn from time to time, and from place to place, until their duties shall have been per­formed. It shall be their duty to enquire and report to the Legislature at their next session:

First—A proper scite for the University;

Secondly—A plan for the buildings thereof;

Thirdly—The branches of learning, which should be

taught therein;

Fourthly—The number and description of profes­sorships; and

Fifthly—Such general provisions as might properly

be enacted by the Legislature, for the better or­-

ganising and governing the University.

The said board are also authorised and required to re­ceive any voluntary contributions, whether conditional or absolute, whether in land, money or other property, which may be offered, through them, to the president and directors of the literary fund, for the beneﬁt of the University; and to report the same to the Legislature, at their next session. The members of the said board of commissioners shall be allowed for their services the same pay and traveling expences, as are allowed to mem­bers of the General Assembly, to be ascertained and cer­tiﬁed by the board, and paid out of the literary fund.

9\. _Be it further enacted,_ That, as soon as the scite of the said University shall be ascertained by law, there shall be appropriated, out of the revenue of the literary fund, the sum of ﬁfteen thousand dollars per annum, for the purpose of defraying the expences of procuring the land and erecting the buildings, and for the permanent endowment of the said University; _Provided, however,_ that the appropriation, hereby made to the University, shall in no manner impair or diminish the appropria­tions hereinbefore made to the education of the poor in the several counties and corporations.

10\. _Be it further enacted,_ That the University afore­said shall be under the government of thirteen visitors to be appointed by the president and directors of the liter­ary fund, and to hold their ofﬁces for seven years, and until their successors shall be appointed, unless sooner displaced by the said president and directors. All vacan­cies in the ofﬁce of visitor, by death, resignation, or re­moval out of the Commonwealth, or failure to act, for the space of one year, shall be supplied by the said pres­ident and directors.

11\. The said visitors shall appoint one of their own body to be rector, and they shall be a body corporate, under the name and style of “The rector and visitors of the University of Virginia;” and, as such, they may have and use a common seal, receive and hold property for the beneﬁt of the University, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded. They shall have power to appoint a clerk for their own body and allow him a reasonable com­pensation for his services; to appoint and remove the professors and teachers and all other ofﬁcers of the Uni­versity; to regulate their salaries and fees; and to make all such by-laws, rules and regulations, as may be necessary to the good government of the University, and not con­trary to the laws of the land. But the said rector and visitors shall at all times conform to such laws, as the Legislature may from time to time think proper to enact for their government; and the said University shall in all things, at all times, be subject to the controul of the Leg­islature.

12\. This act shall commence and be in force from and after the ﬁrst day of March next.

3

PROCEEDINGS AND REPORT

OF THE COMMISSIONERS FOR

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA.

PRESENTED DECEMBER 8, 1818.

Read and referred to a Select Committee

\[Richmond: Printed by Thomas Ritchie,

Printer for the Commonwealth. 1818.\]

MONTICELLO, Nov. 20, 1818.

SIR,

The Commissioners appointed under the Act of the last General Assembly, for appropriating a part of the rev­enue of the Literary Fund, and for other purposes, met according to law, at the Rockﬁsh Gap, on the 1st day of August last, and having continued their session by ad­journments until the 4th day of that month, agreed to a report, which being signed in duplicates, individually and unanimously, by all the members who attended, they instructed me to transmit to the Speakers of both Houses of the Legislature. In obedience to that instruc­tion, I now inclose one of the said original reports, with a copy of their journal, and of the documents exhibited and left in their possession.

Some of the outstanding subscription papers therein mentioned, have been returned with additional subscrip­tions to the amount of 2650 dollars, and an additional purchase has been made of 483⁄4 acres of land adjoining the site of the Central College, necessary to the probable extent of buildings, should that be adopted, as proposed by the report, for the site of the University; which cir­cumstances having taken place since the date of the report, I have deemed it a duty to mention as supple­mentary to it.

I have the honor to be with sentiments of the highest respect and consideration,

Sir, your most obedient

and most humble servant,

TH: JEFFERSON.

_The Honorable the Speaker_

_of the House of Delegates of Virginia._

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD

The Commissioners for the “University of Virginia” having been required by law to meet at the tavern in Rockﬁsh Gap, on the Blue Ridge, on the ﬁrst day of Au­gust, 1818, the following members attended, (to wit;) Creed Taylor, Peter Randolph, William Brockenbrough, Archibald Rutherford, Archibald Stuart, James Breck­enridge, Henry E. Watkins, James Madison, Armistead T. Mason, Hugh Holmes, Philip C. Pendleton, Spencer Roane, John McTaylor, John G. Jackson, Thomas Wil­son, Philip Slaughter, William H. Cabell, Nathaniel H. Claiborne, Thomas Jefferson, William A. G. Dade, and William Jones, and their appointments being duly proven, they formed a Board, and proceeded to the discharge of the duties prescribed to them by the Act of the Legisla­ture, entitled, “An Act appropriating a part of the rev­enue of the Literary Fund, and for other purposes.”

Thomas Jefferson, Esq. was unanimously elected President of the Board, and Thomas W. Maury ap­pointed Secretary, who appeared and took his seat as such.

The Board proceeded to the ﬁrst duty enjoined on them, (to wit;) to enquire and report a proper site for the University, whereupon the towns of Lexington and Staunton, and the Central College, were severally pro­posed; and after some time spent in debate thereon, on motion of Mr. Rutherford; it was

_Resolved,_ That the consideration be postponed for the present.

On motion by Mr. Dade, (who stated it to be his ob­ject to ascertain the sense of the Board on the question, whether the Board would visit the several places pro­posed for the site of the University, at the same moment that he himself was opposed to the adoption of such res­olution,) that when this Board adjourns, it shall be to Lexington, in the County of Rockbridge; it was unani­mously decided in the negative.

On motion, _Resolved,_ That a Select Committee of six members be appointed by ballot to consider and report on all the duties assigned to this Board, except that relat­ing to the site of the University, and a committee was ap­pointed of Mr. Jefferson, Mr. Madison, Mr. Roane, Mr. Stuart, Mr. Dade, and Mr. Breckenridge.

On a motion by Mr. Stuart, that when the Board ad­journs, it shall be to the town of Staunton, in the County of Augusta, it was decided in the negative.

On motion, _Resolved,_ That when this Board ad­journs, it will adjourn till 9 o’clock, on Monday morning.

And the Board was accordingly adjourned till 9 o’clock on Monday morning.

MONDAY, August 3d, 1818.

The Board having met according to adjournment,

On the motion of Mr. Roane, _Resolved,_ That the Board will now proceed to declare its opinion which of the three places proposed, to wit; Lexington, Staunton, or the Central College, is most convenient and proper for the site of the University of Virginia, and on a call of the votes nominally, Mr. Breckenridge, Mr. Pendleton, and Mr. J. McTaylor, voted for Lexington; Mr. Stuart and Mr. Wilson for Staunton; and Mr. Creed Taylor, Mr. Randolph, Mr. Brockenbrough, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. Watkins, Mr. Madison, Mr. Mason, Mr. Holmes, Mr. Roane, Mr. Jackson, Mr. Slaughter, Mr. Cabell, Mr. Clai­borne, Mr. Jefferson, Mr. Dade, and Mr. Jones voted for the Central College. So it was resolved that the Central College is a convenient and proper place for the site of the University of Virginia.

_Resolved,_ That this declaration of the opinion of the Board be referred to the committee appointed on Satur­day, with instructions that they include it with the other matters referred to them, and report thereon; and that they retire forthwith to prepare and make their report.

Whereupon the Committee withdrew, and after some time returned to their seats, and delivered in their report, which having been considered, and sundry amendments made thereto, was, upon the question put, passed by the unanimous vote of the Board.

_Resolved,_ That the Secretary prepare without delay, two fair copies of the said report, to be signed each by every member present, and, to be forwarded by the Pres­ident, one of them to the Speaker of the Senate, and the other to the Speaker of the House of Delegates.

And the Board adjourned to to-morrow morning, 9 o’clock.

TUESDAY, August 4th, 1818.

The Board met according to adjournment.

The Secretary according to order, produced two fair

copies of the report of the Committee, as amended and agreed to by the Board, which were then signed by the attending members.

On motion of Mr. Roane, seconded by Mr. Brecken­ridge, _Resolved unanimously,_ “That the thanks of this Board be given to Thomas Jefferson, Esq. for the great ability, impartiality, and dignity, with which he has presided over its deliberations.”

The question being then put,  

_Resolved,_ That this Board is now dissolved.  

(Signed)  
TH: JEFFERSON.  
Attest,  
TH: W. MAURY, _Secretary.  
_

REPORT.

The Commissioners for the University of Virginia, having met, as by law required, at the Tavern in Rockﬁsh Gap on the Blue Ridge, on the ﬁrst day of August of this present year 1818, and having formed a board, pro­ceeded on that day to the discharge of the duties as­signed to them by the Act of the Legislature intituled an “Act appropriating part of the revenue of the Literary Fund, and for other purposes,” and having continued their proceedings by adjournment from day to day, to Tuesday the fourth day of August, have agreed to a re­port on the several matters with which they were charged, which report they now respectfully address and submit to the Legislature of the State.

The ﬁrst duty enjoined on them was to enquire and report a site in some convenient and proper part of the State, for an University, to be called the “University of Virginia.”

In this enquiry they supposed that the governing considerations should be the healthiness of the site, the fertility of the neighbouring country, and its central­ity to the white population of the whole State: for, al­though the Act authorised and required them to receive any voluntary contributions, whether conditional or absolute, which might be offered through them to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund, for the beneﬁt of the University, yet they did not consider this as establishing an auction, or as pledging the location to the highest bidder.

Three places were proposed; to wit, Lexington in the County of Rockbridge, Staunton in the County of Augusta, and the Central College, in the County of Al­bemarle: each of these was unexceptionable as to health­iness and fertility. It was the degree of centrality to the white population of the State which alone then consti­tuted the important point of comparison between these places: and the Board, after full enquiry, and impartial and mature consideration, are of opinion that the central point of the white population of the State is nearer to the Central College, than to either Lexington, or Staunton, by great and important differences; and all other cir­cumstances of the place in general being favorable to it as a position for an University, they do report the Central College in Albemarle, to be a convenient and proper part of the State, for the University of Virginia.

2\. The Board having thus agreed on a proper site for the University to be reported to the Legislature, pro­ceeded to the second of the duties assigned to them, that of proposing a plan for its buildings; and they are of opinion that it should consist of distinct houses or pavil­ions, arranged at proper distances on each side of a lawn of a proper breadth, and of indeﬁnite extent in one di­rection at least, in each of which should be a lectur­ing room, with from two to four apartments for the accommodation of a Professor and his family; that these pavilions should be united by a range of Dormitories, sufﬁcient each for the accommodation of two Students only, this provision being deemed advantageous to morals, to order, and to uninterrupted study; and that a passage of some kind under cover from the weather should give a communication along the whole range. It is supposed that such pavilions on an average of the larger and smaller, will cost each about 5,000 dollars, each dormitory about 350 dollars, and hotels of a single room for a refectory, and two rooms for the tenant nec­essary for dieting the Students will cost about 3,500 dol­lars each. The number of these pavilions will depend on the number of Professors, and that of the Dormitories and hotels on the number of Students to be lodged and dieted. The advantages of this place are, greater security against ﬁre and infection; tranquility and comfort to the Professors, and their families thus insulated; retirement to the Students, and the admission of enlargement to any degree to which the institution may extend in future times. It is supposed probable that a building of some­what more size in the middle of the grounds may be called for in time, in which may be rooms for religious worship under such impartial regulations as the visitors shall prescribe, for public examinations, for a library, for the schools of music, drawing, and other associated purposes.

3.4. In proceeding to the third and fourth duties pre­scribed by the Legislature of reporting “the branches of learning, which should be taught in the University, and the number and description of the professorships they will require,” the Commissioners were ﬁrst to consider at what point it was understood that University educa­tion should commence? Certainly not with the Alpha­bet, for reasons of expediency and impracticability, as well as from the obvious sense of the Legislature, who, in the same Act make other provision for the primary in­struction of poor children, expecting doubtless that, in other cases, it would be provided by the parent, or be­come perhaps a subject of future, and further attention for the Legislature. The objects of this primary educa­tion determine its character and limits.—These objects would be,

To give to every citizen the information he needs for the transaction of his own business.

To enable him to calculate for himself, and to express and preserve his ideas, his contracts and accounts in writing.

To improve by reading, his morals and faculties.

To understand his duties to his neighbours, and country, and to discharge with competence the func­tions conﬁded to him by either.

To know his rights; to exercise with order and justice those he retains; to choose with discretion the ﬁduciar­ies of those he delegates; and to notice their conduct with diligence, with candor and judgment.

And, in general, to observe with intelligence and faithfulness all the social relations under which he shall be placed.

To instruct the mass of our citizens in these their rights, interests and duties, as men and citizens, being then the objects of education in the primary schools, whether private or public, in them should be taught reading, writing and numerical arithmetic, the elements of mensuration (useful in so many callings,) and the outlines of geography and history; and this brings us to the point at which are to commence the higher branches of education, of which the Legislature require the de­velopment: those, for example, which are to form the Statesmen, Legislators and Judges, on whom public prosperity, and individual happiness are so much to depend:

To expound the principles and structure of govern­ment, the laws which regulate the intercourse of nations, those formed municipally for our own government, and a sound spirit of Legislation, which banishing all arbi­trary and unnecessary restraint on individual action shall leave us free to do whatever does not violate the equal rights of another:

To harmonize and promote the interests of agricul­ture, manufactures and commerce, and by well informed views of political economy to give a free scope to the public industry:

To develope the reasoning faculties of our youth, en­large their minds, cultivate their morals, and instil into them the precepts of virtue and order:

To enlighten them with mathematical and physical sciences, which advance the arts and administer to the health, the subsistence and comforts of human life:

And generally to form them to habits of reﬂection, and correct action, rendering them examples of virtue to others, and of happiness within themselves.

These are the objects of that higher grade of educa­tion, the beneﬁts and blessings of which the Legislature now propose to provide for the good and ornament of their country, the gratiﬁcation and happiness of their fellow citizens, of the parent especially and his progeny on which all his affections are concentrated.

In entering on this ﬁeld, the Commissioners are aware that they have to encounter much difference of opinion as to the extent, which it is expedient that this institution should occupy. Some good men, and even of respectable information, consider the learned sciences as useless acquirements; some think that they do not better the condition of man; and others, that education, like private and individual concerns, should be left to private and individual effort; not reﬂecting that an es­tablishment, embracing all the sciences which may be useful and even necessary in the various vocations of life, with the buildings and apparatus belonging to each, are far beyond the reach of individual means, and must ei­ther derive existence from public patronage or not exist at all. This would leave us then without those callings which depend on education, or send us to other coun­tries, to seek the instruction they require. But the Com­missioners are happy in considering the statute under which they are assembled as proof, that the Legislature is far from the abandonment of objects so interesting; they are sensible that the advantages of well directed ed­ucation, moral, political and economical, are truly above all estimate. Education generates habits of application, of order and the love of virtue; and controuls, by the force of habit, any innate obliquities in our moral or­ganization. We should be far too from the discouraging persuasion, that man is ﬁxed, by the law of his nature, at a given point; that his improvement is a chimaera, and the hope delusive of rendering ourselves wiser, happier or better than our forefathers were.—As well might it be urged, that the wild and uncultivated tree, hitherto yielding sour and bitter fruit only, can never be made to yield better: Yet we know that the grafting art implants a new tree on the savage stock, producing what is most estimable both in kind and degree. Education, in like manner, engrafts a new man on the native stock, and im­proves what in his nature was vicious and perverse, into qualities of virtue and social worth; and it cannot be, but that each generation, succeeding to the knowledge ac­quired by all those who preceded it, adding to it their own acquisitions and discoveries, and handing the mass down for successive and constant accumulation, must advance the knowledge and well-being of mankind, not _inﬁnitely,_ as some have said, but _indeﬁnitely,_ and to a term which no one can ﬁx or foresee. Indeed, we need look back only half a century, to times which many now living remember well, and see the wonderful advances in the sciences and arts which have been made within that period. Some of these have rendered the elements them­selves subservient to the purposes of man, have har­nessed them to the yoke of his labours, and effected the great blessings of moderating his own, of accomplishing what was beyond his feeble force, and of extending the comforts of life to a much enlarged circle, to those who had before known its necessaries only.—That these are not the vain dreams of sanguine hope, we have before our eyes real and living examples. What, but education, has advanced us beyond the condition of our indigenous neighbours? and what chains them to their present state of barbarism and wretchedness, but a bigotted venera­tion for the supposed superlative wisdom of their fa­thers, and the perposterous idea that they are to look backward for better things and not forward, longing, as it should seem, to return to the days of eating acorns and roots, rather than indulge in the degeneracies of civiliza­tion? And how much more encouraging to the achieve­ments of science and improvement, is this, than the desponding view that the condition of man cannot be ameliorated, that what has been, must ever be, and that to secure ourselves where we are, we must tread, with awful reverence, in the footsteps of our fathers. This doctrine is the genuine fruit of the alliance between church and state, the tenants of which, ﬁnding them­selves but too well in their present position, oppose all advances which might unmask their usurpations, and monopolies of honours, wealth and power, and fear every change, as endangering the comforts they now hold. Nor must we omit to mention, among the beneﬁts of education, the incalculable advantage of training up able councillors to administer the affairs of our country in all its departments, Legislative, Executive and Judi­ciary, and to bear their proper share in the councils of our National Government; nothing more than educa­tion, advancing the prosperity, the power and the happi­ness of a nation.

Encouraged therefore by the sentiments of the Legis­lature, manifested in this statute, we present the follow­ing tabular statement of the branches of learning which we think should be taught in the University, forming them into groupes, each of which are within the powers of a single professor:

_I. Languages Ancient,_

Latin,  
Greek,  
Hebrew.

_II. Languages Modern._

French,  
Spanish,  
Italian,  
German,  
Anglo-Saxon.

_III. Mathematics Pure._

Algebra,  
Fluxions,  
Geometry, Elementary,

“ Transcendental, Architecture, Military.

“ Naval.

_IV. Physico-Mathematics._

Mechanics,  
Statics,  
Dynamics,  
Pneumatics,  
Acoustics,  
Optics,  
Astronomy,  
Geography.

_V._

Physics or Natural Philosophy.  
Chemistry.  
Mineralogy.

_VI._

Botany,  
Zoology.

_VII._

Anatomy,  
Medicine.

_VIII._

Government,  
Political Economy,  
Law of Nature and Nations,  
History, (being interwoven

with Politics and Law.)

_IX._

Law Municipal.

_X._

Ideology,  
General Grammar,  
Ethics,  
Rhetoric,  
Belles Lettres and the  
Fine Arts.

Some of the terms used in this table, being subject to a difference of acceptation, it is proper to deﬁne the meaning and comprehension intended to be given them here:

Geometry Elementary, is that of straight lines and of the circle.

Transcendental, is that of all other curves; it in­cludes of course _Projectiles,_ a leading branch of the military art.

Military Architecture, includes fortiﬁcation, another branch of that art.

Statics, respect matter generally, in a state of rest, and include Hydrostatics, or the laws of ﬂuids particularly, at rest or in equilibrio.

Dynamics, used as a general term, include Dynamics Proper, or the laws of solids in motion, and Hydrody­namics, or Hydraulics, those of ﬂuids in motion.

Pneumatics, teach the theory of air, its weight, mo­tion, condensation, rarefaction, &c.

Acoustics, or Phonics, the theory of sound.

Optics, the laws of light and vision.

Physics, or Physiology, in a general sense, mean the doctrine of the physical objects of our senses.

Chemistry, is meant, with its other usual branches, to comprehend the theory of agriculture.

Mineralogy, in addition to its peculiar subjects, is here understood to embrace what is real in Geology.

Ideology, is the doctrine of thought.

General Grammar, explains the construction of lan­guage.

Some articles in this distribution of sciences will need observation.

A Professor is proposed for ancient languages, the Latin, Greek and Hebrew particularly, but these lan­guages being the foundation common to all the sciences, it is difﬁcult to foresee what may be the extent of this school—at the same time no greater obstruction to in­dustrious study could be proposed than the presence, the intrusions, and the noisy turbulence of a multitude of small boys; and if they are to be placed here for the rudiments of the languages, they may be so numerous, that its character and value as an University, will be merged in those of a grammar school. It is therefore greatly to be wished, that preliminary schools, either on private or public establishment, could be distributed in districts through the State, as preparatory to the en­trance of students into the University. The tender age at which this part of education commences, generally about the tenth year, would weigh heavily with parents in sending their sons to a school so distant as the central establishment would be from most of them. Districts of such extent as that every parent should be within a day’s journey of his son at school, would be desirable in cases of sickness, and convenient for supplying their ordinary wants, and might be made to lessen sensibly the expense of this part of their education. And where a sparse pop­ulation would not, within such a compass, furnish subjects sufﬁcient to maintain a school, a competent en­largement of district must, of necessity, there be submit­ted to. At these district schools or colleges, boys should be rendered able to read the easier authors, Latin and Greek. This would be useful and sufﬁcient for many not intended for an university education. At these too might be taught English grammar, the higher branches of nu­merical arithmetic, the geometry of straight lines and of the circle, the elements of navigation, and geography to a sufﬁcient degree, and thus afford to greater numbers the means of being qualiﬁed for the various vocations of life, needing more instruction than merely menial or praedial labor; and the same advantages to youths whose education may have been neglected until too late to lay a foundation in the learned languages. These institutions, intermediate between the Primary Schools and Univer­sity, might then be the passage of entrance for youths into the University, where their classical learning might be critically compleated, by a study of the authors of highest degree. And it is at this stage only that they should be received at the University.—Giving then a portion of their time to a ﬁnished knowledge of the Latin and Greek, the rest might be appropriated to the modern languages, or to the commencement of the course of science, for which they should be destined. This would generally be about the 15th year of their age, when they might go with more safety and contentment to that distance from their parents. Until this prepara­tory provision shall be made, either the University will be overwhelmed with the grammar school, or a separate establishment under one or more Ushers for its lower classes, will be advisable, at a mile or two distance from the general one; where too may be exercised the stricter government necessary for young boys, but unsuitable for youths arrived at years of discretion.

The considerations which have governed the speciﬁ­cation of languages to be taught by the Professor of modern languages, were, that the French is the language of general intercourse among nations, and as a deposi­tory of human science, is unsurpassed by any other language, living or dead: that the Spanish is highly inter­esting to us, as the language spoken by so great a portion of the inhabitants of our continents, with whom we shall probably have great intercourse ere long; and is that also in which is written the greater part of the early history of America: The Italian abounds with works of very su­perior order, valuable for their matter, and still more distinguished as models of the ﬁnest taste in style and composition: and the German now stands in a line with that of the most learned nations in richness of erudition, and advance in the sciences. It is too of common descent with the language of our own country, a branch of the same original Gothic stock, and furnishes valuable illus­trations for us. But in this point of view, the Anglo-Saxon is of peculiar value. We have placed it among the modern languages, because it is in fact that which we speak, in the earliest form in which we have knowledge of it. It has been undergoing, with time, those gradual changes which all languages, ancient and modern, have experienced; and even now, needs only to be printed in the modern character and orthography, to be intelli­gible, in a considerable degree, to an English reader. It has this value too above the Greek and Latin, that while it gives the radix of the mass of our language, they ex­plain its innovations only. Obvious proofs of this have been presented to the modern reader, in the disquisi­tions of Horne Tooke; and Fortescue Aland has well ex­plained the great instruction which may be derived from it towards a full understanding of our ancient common law, on which as a stock, our whole system of law is en­grafted. It will form the ﬁrst link in the chain of an his­torical review of our language through all its successive changes to the present day; will constitute the founda­tion of that critical instruction in it, which ought to be found in a Seminary of general learning; and thus reward amply the few weeks of attention which would alone be requisite for its attainment. A language already fraught with all the eminent science of our parent country, the future vehicle of whatever we may ourselves atchieve, and destined to occupy so much space on the globe, claims distinguished attention in American education.

Medicine, where fully taught, is usually subdivided into several professorships; but this cannot well be with­out the accessory of an hospital, where the Student can have the beneﬁt of attending clinical lectures, and of as­sisting at operations of surgery. With this accessory, the seat of our University is not yet prepared, either by its population, or by the numbers of poor, who would leave their own houses, and accept of the charities of an hos­pital. For the present therefore, we propose but a single Professor for both Medicine and Anatomy. By him the elements of medical science may be taught, with a his­tory and explanations of all its successive theories from Hippocrates to the present day: and anatomy may be fully treated. Vegetable pharmacy will make a part of the botanical course, and mineral and chemical pharmacy, of those of mineralogy and chemistry.

This degree of medical information is such as the mass of scientiﬁc Students would wish to possess, as enabling them, in their course through life, to estimate with satisfaction the extent and limits of the aid to hu­man life and health, which they may understandingly expect from that art, and it constitutes such a foundation for those intended for the profession, that the ﬁnishing course of practice at the bed-sides of the sick, and at the operations of surgery in a hospital, can neither be long nor expensive. To seek this ﬁnishing elsewhere, must therefore be submitted to for a while. In conform­ity with the principles of our constitution, which places all sects of religion on an equal footing, with the jeal­ousies of the different sects in guarding that equality from encroachment and surprise, and with the senti­ments of the Legislature in favor of freedom of religion manifested on former occasions, we have proposed no Professor of Divinity; and the rather, as the proofs of the being of a God, the creator, preserver, and supreme ruler of the universe, the author of all the relations of moral­ity, and of the laws and obligations these infer, will be within the province of the professor of ethics, to which adding the developments of these moral obligations, of those in which all sects agree, with a knowledge of the languages, Hebrew, Greek and Latin, a basis will be formed common to all sects. Proceeding thus far with­out offence to the constitution, we have thought it proper at this point, to leave every sect to provide as they think ﬁttest, the means of further instruction in their own peculiar tenets.

We are further of opinion that, after declaring by law that certain sciences shall be taught in the University, ﬁxing the number of professors they require, which we think should at present be ten, limiting (except as to the Professors who shall be ﬁrst engaged in each branch,) a maximum for their salaries, (which should be a certain but moderate subsistence, to be made up by liberal tu­ition fees, as an excitement to assiduity,) it will be best to leave to the discretion of the visitors, the grouping of these sciences together, according to the accidental qual­iﬁcations of the Professors, and the introduction also of other branches of science, when enabled by private do­nations or by public provision, and called for by the in­crease of population, or other change of circumstances; to establish beginnings, in short, to be developed by time, as those who come after us shall ﬁnd expedient. They will be more advanced than we are, in science and in useful arts, and will know best what will suit the cir­cumstances of their day.

We have proposed no formal provision for the gym­nastics of the school, although a proper object of atten­tion for every institution of youth. These exercises with ancient nations, constituted the principal part of the ed­ucation of their youth. Their arms and mode of warfare rendered them severe in the extreme. Ours, on the same correct principle, should be adapted to our arms and warfare; and the manual exercise, military manoeuvres, and tactics generally, should be the frequent exercises of the students, in their hours of recreation. It is at that age of aptness, docility and emulation of the practices of manhood, that such things are soonest learnt, and longest remembered. The use of tools too, in the manual arts, is worthy of encouragement, by facilitating to such as choose it, an admission into the neighbouring work-shops.—To these should be added the arts which em­bellish life, dancing, musick, and drawing; the last more especially, as an important part of military education. These innocent arts furnish amusement and happiness to those who, having time on their hands, might less in­offensively employ it;—needing at the same time, no regular incorporation with the institution, they may be left to accessory teachers, who will be paid by the indi­viduals employing them; the University only providing proper apartments for their exercise.

The 5th duty prescribed to the commissioners is, to propose such general provisions as may be properly en­acted by the Legislature, for the better organizing and governing the University.

In the education of youth, provision is to be made for: 1, tuition—2, diet—3, lodging—4, government and 5, honorary excitements. The 1st of these constitutes the proper functions of the professors. 2. The dieting of the students should be left to private boardinghouses of their own choice, and at their own expense; to be regulated by the Visitors from time to time, the house only being pro­vided by the University within its own precincts, and thereby of course, subjected to the general regimen, moral or sumptuary, which they shall prescribe. 3. They should be lodged in dormitories, making a part of the general system of buildings. 4. The best mode of govern­ment for youth, in large collections, is certainly a desider­atum not yet attained with us. It may well be questioned whether _fear,_ after a certain age, is the motive to which we should have ordinary recourse. The human character is susceptible of other incitements to correct conduct, more worthy of employ, and of better effect. Pride of character, laudable ambition and moral dispositions are innate correctives of the indiscretions of that lively age; and when strengthened by habitual appeal and exercise, have a happier effect on future character, than the de­grading motive of _fear._ Hardening them to disgrace, to corporal punishments, and servile humiliations, cannot be the best process for producing erect character. The af­fectionate deportment between father and son, offers, in truth, the best example for that of tutor and pupil; and the experience and practice of \* other countries in this respect, may be worthy of enquiry and consideration with us. It will be then for the wisdom and discretion of the Visitors to devise and perfect a proper system of gov­ernment, which, if it be founded in reason and comity, will be more likely to nourish, in the minds of our youth, the combined spirit of order and self respect, so congen­ial with our political institutions, and so important to be woven into the American character. 5. What qualiﬁcations shall be required to entitle to entrance into the University? the arrangement of the days and hours of lecturing for the different schools, so as to facilitate to the students the circle of attendance on them; the estab­lishment of periodical and public examinations; the premiums to be given for distinguished merit; whether honorary degrees shall be conferred? and by what ap­pellations? whether the title to these shall depend on the time the candidate has been at the University, or, where nature has given a greater share of understanding, atten­tion and application, whether he shall not be allowed the advantages resulting from these endowments; with other minor items of government, we are of opinion, should be entrusted to the Visitors; and the statute under which we act, having provided for the appointment of these, we think they should moreover be charged with

The erection, preservation and repair of the buildings, the care of the grounds and appurtenances, and of the interests of the University generally;

That they should have power to appoint a Bursar, em­ploy a Proctor, and all other necessary agents;

To appoint and remove professors, two-thirds of the whole number of Visitors voting for the removal;

To prescribe their duties and the course of education, in conformity with the law;

To establish rules for the government and discipline of the students, not contrary to the laws of the land;

To regulate the tuition fees and the rent of the dormito­ries they occupy;

To prescribe and control the duties and proceedings of all ofﬁcers, servants, and others, with respect to the buildings, lands, appurtenances, and other property and interests of the University;

To draw from the Literary Fund such monies as are by law charged on it for this institution;

And in general to direct and do all matters and things which, not being inconsistent with the laws of the land, to them shall seem most expedient for promot­ing the purposes of the said institution; which several functions they should be free to exercise in the form of bye-laws, rules, resolutions, orders, instructions, or otherwise, as they should deem proper:

That they should have two Stated Meetings in the year, and occasional meetings at such times as they should appoint, or on a special call with such notice as themselves shall prescribe by a general rule; which meet­ing should be at the University; a majority of them con­stituting a quorum for business; and that on the death or resignation of a member, or on his removal by the Presi­dent and Directors of the Literary Fund, or the Execu­tive, or such other authority as the Legislature shall think best, such President and Directors, or the Execu­tive, or other authority, should appoint a successor:

\*A police exercised by the students themselves, under proper direction, has been tried with success in some countries, and the rather as forming them for initiation into the duties and practices of civil life.

That the said Visitors should appoint one of their own body to be Rector, and with him be a body corpo­rate, under the style and title of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, with the right as such, to use a common seal; that they should have capacity to plead and be impleaded, in all courts of justice, and in all cases interesting to the University, which may be the subjects of legal cognizance and jurisdiction; which pleas should not abate by the determination of their of­ﬁce, but should stand revived in the name of their suc­cessors; and they should be capable in law, and in trust for the University, of receiving subscriptions and dona­tions, real and personal, as well from bodies corporate, or persons associated, as from private individuals:

And that the said Rector and Visitors should at all times conform to such laws, as the Legislature may from time to time think proper to enact for their government; and the said University should in all things, and at all times be subject to the control of the Legislature.

And lastly, the Commissioners report to the Legisla­ture the following conditional offers to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund, for the beneﬁt of the University:

On the condition that Lexington, or its vicinity shall be selected as the site of the University, and that the same be permanently established there within two years from the date, John Robinson, of Rockbridge County, has ex­ecuted a deed to the President and Directors of the Lit­erary Fund, to take effect at his death, for the following tracts of land, to wit:

400 acres on the north fork of James River, known by the name of Hart’s bottom, purchased of the late general Bowyer.

171 acres adjoining the same, purchased of James Griggsby.

203 acres joining the last mentioned tract, purchased of William Paxton.

112 acres lying on the North River, above the lands of Arthur Glasgow, conveyed to him by William Paxton’s heirs.

500 acres joining the lands of Arthur Glasgow, Ben­jamin Cambden, and David Edmondson.

545 acres lying in Pryor’s Gap, conveyed to him by the heirs of William Paxton, deceased.

260 acres lying in Childers’ Gap, purchased of William Mitchell.

300 acres lying also in Childers’ Gap, purchased of Nicholas Jones.

500 acres lying on Buffalo, joining the lands of James Johnston.

340 acres on the Cow-pasture River, conveyed to him by general James Breckenridge, reserving the right of selling the two last mentioned tracts, and converting them into other lands contiguous to Hart’s bottom, for the beneﬁt of the University: Also the whole of his slaves, amounting to 57 in number: one lot of twenty-two acres, joining the town of Lexington, to pass imme­diately, on the establishment of the University, together with all the personal estate of every kind; subject only to the payment of his debts, and fulﬁlment of his contracts.

It has not escaped the attention of the Commission­ers, that the deed referred to is insufﬁcient to pass the estate in the lands intended to be conveyed, and may be otherwise defective; but if necessary, this defect may be remedied before the meeting of the Legislature, which the Commissioners are advised will be done.

The Board of Trustees of Washington College, have also proposed to transfer the whole of their funds, viz.

100 shares in the funds of the James River Company.

31 acres of land on which all their buildings stand.

Their philosophical apparatus; their expected inter­est in the funds of the Cincinnati society; the Libraries of the Graham and Washington societies; and

3000 dollars in cash; on condition that a reasonable provision be made for the present Professors.

A subscription has also been offered by the people of Lexington and its vicinity, amounting to 17,878 dollars; all which will appear from the deed and other docu­ments, reference thereto being had.

In this case also, it has not escaped the attention of the Commissioners, that questions may arise as to the power of the Trustees to make the above transfers.

On the condition that the Central College shall be made the site of the University, its whole property, real and personal, in possession, or in action, is offered. This consists of a parcel of land of 47 acres, whereon the build­ings of the College are begun, one pavilion and its appen­dix of dormitories, being already far advanced, and with one other pavilion, and equal annexation of dormitories, being expected to be completed during the present sea­son. Of another parcel of 153 acres, near the former, and including a considerable eminence very favorable for the erection of a future observatory. Of the proceeds of the sale of two glebes, amounting to 3,280 dollars 86 cents; and of a subscription of 41,248 dollars, on papers in hand, besides what is on outstanding papers, of un­known amount, not yet returned. Out of these sums are to be taken, however, the cost of the lands, of the build­ings, and other works done, and for existing contracts.

For the conditional transfer of these to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund, a regular power signed by the subscribers and founders of the College generally; has been given to its Visitors and Proctor, and a deed conveying the said property accordingly, to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund, has been duly executed by the said Proctor, and acknowledged for record in the ofﬁce of the Clerk of the County Court of Albemarle.

Signed and certiﬁed by the members present, each in his proper hand-writing, this 4th day of August, 1818.

TH: JEFFERSON, PHIL: C. PENDLETON,  
CREED TAYLOR, SPENCER ROANE,  
PETER RANDOLPH, JOHN M. C. TAYLOR,  
WM. BROCKENBROUGH, J. G. JACKSON,  
ARCH’D RUTHERFORD, THOS. WILSON,  
ARCH’D STUART, PHIL. SLAUGHTER,  
JAMES BRECKENRIDGE, WM. H. CABELL,  
HENRY E. WATKINS, NATHL. H. CLAIBORNE,  
JAMES MADISON, WM. A. G. DADE,  
ARMISTEAD T. MASON, WM. JONES.  
HUGH HOLMES,  

_To all persons to whom these presents shall come, Nel­son Barksdale, of the County of Albemarle, Proctor of the Central College within the same County;_ Greeting;

By virtue of the powers granted to me by certain ho­mologous instruments of writing, signed and executed by the sundry subscribers, contributors and founders of the said College, which several instruments are all of the same tenor, and expressed in these words following, to wit: “Whereas by an Act of the General Assembly for appropriating a part of the revenue of the Literary Fund to the endowment of an University, and for the appoint­ment of commissioners to enquire and report to the Legislature a proper site for the same, ‘The said Com­missioners are authorized to receive any voluntary con­tributions, whether conditional or absolute, whether in land, money or other property, which may be offered through them, to the President and Directors of the Lit­erary Fund, for the beneﬁt of the University.’ “Be it therefore known, that we the subscribers, contributors and founders of the establishment, of the Central Col­lege, near Charlottesville, do hereby authorize and em­power the Visitors of the said College, or a majority of them, or the Proctor thereof, to offer through the said Commissioners to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund the said Central College with all the lands, monies, credits and other property thereunto belonging, and of the same to make an absolute con­veyance, on condition that the lands of the said College be ultimately adopted by the Legislature as the site of the said University: in witness whereof we have hereunto subscribed our names,” (as by the said several instru­ments with the names duly subscribed in the proper hand writing of each subscriber, will more certainly ap­pear; Know ye, that I, the said Nelson Barksdale, Proc­tor of the said College, by this my deed, indented, sealed and delivered, in consideration of the sum of one dollar to me in hand paid for the use of the said College, and of the condition precedent herein after stated, do give, grant, bargain and sell, offer and convey to the said Pres­ident and Directors of the Literary Fund, for the beneﬁt of the said University of Virginia now proposed to be established, all the lands, monies, credits and other prop­erty of whatever form, nature or value, to the said Cen­tral College belonging, wheresoever the same may be, or in whatsoever hands. To have and to hold the same to the said President and Directors of the said Literary Fund, and their successors, to and for the sole use and beneﬁt of the said University of Virginia: On the condition precedent, that the lands of the said College in the said County of Albemarle be ultimately adopted by the Leg­islature of this Commonwealth, or by those whom they shall authorize thereto, as the site of the said University of Virginia: which condition being previously fulﬁlled, this deed is to be in full force, but otherwise to become void and of no effect. In testimony whereof I have here­unto set my hand and seal this 27th day of July 1818.

NELSON BARKSDALE, (SEAL.)

_Proctor to the C. College. Signed, sealed and delivered_

_in presence of_

FRANK CARR,

JAMES LEITCH,

JAMES BROWN.

_In the ofﬁce of the County Court of Albemarle, the 27th day of July 1818._

This Indenture was produced to me in my ofﬁce the date above, and acknowledged by Nelson Barksdale, Proctor to the Central College, party thereto, to be his hand and seal, act and deed, and admitted to record ac­cording to law.

Teste

ALEX. GARRETT, C. C.

A copy. Teste

ALEX. GARRETT, C. C.

Whereas, by an act of the General Assembly for ap­propriating a part of the revenue of the Literary Fund to the endowment of an University and for the appoint­ment of Commissioners to enquire and report to the Legislature, a proper site for the same, the said Commis­sioners are authorised “to receive any voluntary contri­butions whether conditional or absolute, whether in land, money, or other property, which may be offered, through them, to the President, and Directors of the Literary Fund, for the beneﬁt of the University:” Be it therefore known, that we, the subscribers, contributors and founders of the establishment of the Central Col­lege, near Charlottesville, do hereby authorise and em­power the Visitors of the said College, or a majority of them, or the proctor thereof, to offer, through the said Commissioners, to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund, the said Central College, with all the lands, moneys, credits and other property thereto be­longing, and of the same to make an absolute convey­ance: On condition, that the lands of the said College be ultimately adopted by the Legislature as the site of the said University. In Witness whereof, we have hereto sub­scribed our names.

William Mitchell,

John P. Cobbs,

Joel Yancey,

Landon Cabell,

Chas. Johnston,

Thomas J. McCleland,

H. Harrison,

William Cabell,

Richard Pollard,

George Callaway,

Robert Morriss,

John H. Craven,

Thomas Wells,

Frank Carr,

William Garth,

John Minor,

Moses Peregoy,

William Brown,

John Fretwell,

James Clark,

James Madison,

James H. Terrell,

J. H. Cocke,

Ira Harris,

Joseph C. Cabell,

Nelson Barksdale,

Zachariah Nevill,

Garland Garth,

Henry Dawson,

Thomas J. Randolph,

Ro. Rives,

William Woods,

W. C. Rives,

John M. Perry,

George M. Woods,

N. Bramham,

Daniel F. Carr,

Samuel L. Hart,

Alexander Garrett,

John Winn,

William Leitch,

Ira Garrett,

James Dinsmore,

John Jones,

James Leitch,

Fras. B. Dyer,

J. W. Garth,

John Watson, L. M.

V. W. Southall,

John Slaughter,

George W. Kinsolving,

Jo. Bishop,

William Watson,

J. Goss,

John C. Ragland,

Jas. Minor,

Samuel Leitch,

Ben. Hardin,

O. Norris,

William Dunkum,

P. Minor,

Jas. O. Carr,

Thomas Jefferson,

Drury Wood,

Jeremiah A. Goodman,

Dixon Dedman,

Arthur Whitehurst,

Clif. Harris,

John Walker,

Charles Brown,

Jesse Garth,

Reuben Maury,

J. Pollock,

Mann Page,

John Fagg,

J. H. Marks,

C. Wirtenbaker,

Francis McGehee,

William H. Meriwether,

I. A. Coles,

Allen Dawson,

John Coles,

Hugh Chisholm,

James Lindsay,

Saml. Carr,

Martin Thacker,

N. H. Lewis,

Christopher Hudson,

David Isaacs,

John Harris,

Lewis Tul,

Richard Woods,

Peter Porter,

John Dunkum,

Daniel M. Raily,

Thomas Eston Randolph,

Thomas Wood,

Joseph Coffman,

John F. Carr,

John Hudson,

Henry Chiles,

Elijah Brown,

Achilles Broadhead,

James Wood,

Micajah Woods,

Thomas W. Maury,

Tucker Coles,

Zachariah Shackleford,

Samuel Dyer, Sen.

  

4

THE STATUTE OF 1819

CHAPTER XIX.—An act for establishing an Univer­sity

Passed January 25th, 1819

1\. _Be it declared by the General Assembly of Virginia,_ That the conveyance of the lands and other property ap­pertaining to the Central College in the county of Albe­marle, which has been executed by the proctor thereof, under authority of the subscribers and founders, to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund, is hereby accepted, for the use, and on the conditions in the said deed of conveyance expressed.

2\. _And be it enacted,_ That there shall be established, on the site provided for the said college, an university, to be called, “The University of Virginia;” that it shall be under the government of seven visitors to be appointed forthwith by the Governor, with the advice of Council, notifying thereof the persons so appointed, and pre­scribing to them a day for their ﬁrst meeting at the said University, with supplementary instructions for procur­ing a meeting subsequently, in the event of failure at the time ﬁrst appointed.

3\. The said visitors, or so many of them as, being a majority, shall attend, shall appoint a rector, of their own body, to preside at their meetings, and a secretary to record, attest, and preserve their proceedings, and shall proceed to examine into the state of the property con­veyed as aforesaid; shall make an inventory of the same, specifying the items whereof it consists; shall notice the buildings and other improvements already made, and those which are in progress; shall take measures for their completion, and for the addition of such others, from time to time, as may be necessary.

4\. In the said university shall be taught the Latin, Greek and Hebrew languages, French, Spanish, Italian, German and Anglo-Saxon, the different branches of mathematics, pure and physical—natural philosophy, the principles of agriculture, chemistry, mineralogy, including geology, botany, zoology, anatomy, medicine, civil government, political economy, the law of nature and nations, municipal law, history, ideology, general grammar, ethics, rhetorick, and belles lettres; which branches of science shall be so distributed, and under so many professors, not exceeding ten, as the visitors shall think proper and expedient.

5\. Each professor shall be allowed the use of the apartments and accommodations provided for him, and those ﬁrst employed such standing salary as the visitors shall think proper and sufﬁcient, and their successors such standing salary, not exceeding one thousand dol­lars, as the visitors shall think proper and sufﬁcient, with such tuition fees from each student, as the visitors shall from time to time establish.

6\. The said visitors shall be charged with the erection, preservation and repair of the buildings, the care of the grounds and appurtenances, and of the interests of the University generally: they shall have power to appoint a Bursar, employ a Proctor, and all other necessary Agents, to appoint and remove Professors, two thirds of the whole number of visitors voting for the removal; to prescribe their duties, and the course of education, in conformity with the law; to establish rules for the government and discipline of the students, not contrary to the laws of the land; to regulate the tuition fees, and the rent of the dor­mitories occupied; to prescribe and control the duties and proceedings of all ofﬁcers, servants and others, with respect to the buildings, lands, appurtenances and other property, and interests of the university; to draw from the Literary Fund such monies as are by law charged on it for this institution; and, in general, to direct and do all matters and things which, not being inconsistent with the laws of the land, to them shall seem most expedient, for promoting the purposes of the said institution; which several functions they shall be free to exercise in the form of by-laws, rules, resolutions, orders, instructions, or otherwise, as they shall deem proper.

7\. They shall have two stated meetings in every year, to wit: on the ﬁrst Mondays of April and October; and occasional meetings at such other times as they shall ap­point, or on a special call, with such notice as themselves shall prescribe by a general rule; which meetings shall be at the university; a majority of them constituting a quorum for business, and on the death, resignation of a member, or failure to act for the space of one year, or on his removal out of the Commonwealth, or by the Gov­ernor, with the advice of Council, the Governor with like advice shall appoint a successor.

8\. The said rector and visitors shall be a body corpo­rate, under the style and title of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, with the right, as such, to use a common seal; they shall have capacity to plead and be impleaded in all courts of justice, and in all cases in­teresting to the university, which may be subjects of le­gal cognizance and jurisdiction; which pleas shall not abate by the determination of their ofﬁce, but shall stand revived in the name of their successors; and they shall be capable in law, and in trust for the university, of receiv­ing subscriptions and donations real and personal, as well from bodies corporate, or persons associated, as from private individuals.

9\. And the said rectors and visitors shall, at all times, conform to such laws as the Legislature may, from time to time, think proper to enact for their government; and the said university shall, in all things, and at all times, be subject to the control of the Legislature. And the said rector and visitors of the University of Virginia shall be, and they are hereby required to make report, annually, to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund, (to be laid before the Legislature at their next succeeding ses­sion,) embracing a full account of the disbursements, the funds on hand, and a general statement of the condition of the said university.

10\. The said board of visitors, or a majority thereof, by nomination of the board, shall, once in every year at least, visit the said university; enquire into the proceed­ings and practices thereat; examine the progress of the students, and give to those who excell in any branch of science, there taught, such honorary marks and testi­monies of approbation as may encourage and excite to industry and emulation.

11\. On every twenty-ninth of February, or, if that be Sunday, then on the next, or earliest, day thereafter, on which a meeting can be effected, the Governor and Council shall be in session, and shall appoint visitors of the said university, either the same or others, at their dis­cretion, to serve until the twenty-ninth day of February next ensuing, duly and timely notifying to them their appointment, and prescribing a day for their ﬁrst meet­ing at the university; after which, their meetings, stated and occasional, shall be as herein-before provided: _Pro­vided,_ that nothing in this act contained shall suspend the proceedings of the visitors of the said central college of Albemarle; but for the purpose of expediting the objects of the said institution, they shall be authorized, under the control of the Governor and Council, to con­tinue the exercise of their functions, and fulﬁl those of their successors, until the ﬁrst actual meeting of their said successors.

12\. _And be it further enacted,_ That the additional sum of twenty thousand dollars shall be, and the same is hereby appropriated to the education of the poor, out of the revenue of the Literary Fund, in aid of the sum heretofore appropriated to that object, and to be paid in the same manner, and upon the same conditions in all respects, as is prescribed by the fourth section of the act, entitled, “an act appropriating part of the revenue of the Literary Fund, and for other purposes,” passed the twenty-ﬁrst day of February, eighteen hundred and eighteen.

13\. This act shall commence and be in force from and after the passing thereof. \[This section was repealed on 3 March of the same year.\]

22\. This act shall commence and be in force from af­ter the ﬁrst day of January eighteen hundred and twenty; except so much thereof as repeals the additional appro­priation of twenty thousand dollars, annually, out of the revenue of the literary fund; and so much of this act as repeals the said appropriation shall commence and be in force from and after the passing thereof.

B

**THE BOARD OF VISITORS**

**FROM 1819 THROUGH 2022**

Period of Service

Thomas Jefferson of Albemarle

1819–1826

James Madison of Orange

1819–1834

Joseph Cabell of Nelson

1819–1856

John H. Cocke of Fluvanna

1819–1851

Chapman Johnson of Richmond

1819–1845

James Breckenridge of Fincastle

1819–1833

Robert Taylor of Norfolk

1819–1820

George Loyall of Norfolk

1823–1828

James Monroe of Loudoun

1827–1831

William C. Rives of Albemarle

1828–1829

1834–1849

Thomas Jefferson Randolph of Albemarle

1829–1853

1857–1864

William H. Brodnax of Dinwiddie

1831–1834

James M. Mason of Alexandria

1833–1851

Samuel Taylor of Richmond

1835–1845

Andrew Stevenson of Albemarle

1845–1857

Robert M. T. Hunter of Lloyds

1845–1851

Thomas L. Preston of Albemarle

1849–1851

1864–1865

1866–1872

Early records are inexact because of variations in the deﬁnition of a “session.”

Period of Service

John Y. Mason of Richmond

1851–1853

Henry A. Wise of Accomac

1851–1855

William Lucas of Jefferson\*

1851–1855

Fleming B. Miller of Botetourt

1851–1855

Robert A. Thompson of Kanawha\*

1851–1853

Andrew McDonald of Monongalia\*

1851–1854

Harrison B. Tomlin of King William

1853–1855

William J. Robertson of Albemarle

1853–1859

James L. Carr of Kanawha\*

1853–1859

Sherrard Clemens of Wheeling\*

1854–1855

Muscoe R. H. Garnett of Essex

1855–1859

William T. Joynes of Petersburg

1855–1859

John R. Edmunds of Halifax

1855–1864

John B. Baldwin of Augusta

1855–1864

John R. Tucker of Winchester

1855–1859

James Neeson of Marion

1855–1864

Roger A. Pryor of Petersburg

1859–1862

Patrick Henry Aylett of Richmond

1859–1864

Franklin Minor of Albemarle

1859–1864

William H. Terrell of Bath

1859–1864

George W. Summers of Kanawha\*

1860–1862

Douglas H. Gordon of Fredericksburg

1861–1864

Allen T. Caperton of Monroe\*

1862–1864

R. H. Cunningham of Culpeper

1864–1865

William Frazier of Rockbridge

1864–1865

John Brannon of Lewis\*

1864–1865

John M. Daniel of Richmond

1864–1865

Thomas S. Flournoy of Halifax

1864–1865

F. W. M. Holliday of Winchester

1864–1865

George W. Randolph of Richmond

1864–1865

James W. Sheffey of Smythe

1864–1865

\*Now in West Virginia.

Period of Service

Alexander Rives of Albemarle

1865–1866

Thomas C. Tabb of Norfolk

1865–1866

Thomas J. Pretlow of Southampton

1865–1872

Marmaduke Johnson of Richmond

1865–1872

B. Johnson Barbour of Orange

1865–1873

John R. Woods of Albemarle

1865–1872

Charles L. Mosby of Lynchburg

1865–1867

Samuel H. Lewis of Rockingham

1865–1869

R. W. Hughes of Abingdon

1865–1872

Samuel Watts of Portsmouth

1866–1872

William E. M. Word of Botetourt

1867–1872

R. G. H. Kean of Lynchburg

1872–1876

1890–1894

R. H. Baker of Norfolk

1872–1875

W. R. Berkeley of Farmville

1872–1876

Joseph T. Campbell of Abingdon

1872–1876

E. H. Montague of King and Queen

1872–1876

Thomas Smith of Warrenton

1872–1876

Moses Walton of Shenandoah

1872–1876

Micajah Woods of Charlottesville

1872–1876

Isaac H. Carrington of Richmond

1873–1876

G. P. Scarborough of Norfolk

1875–1876

A. H. H. Stuart of Staunton

1876–1882

1886–1887

Thomas S. Bocock of Lynchburg

1876–1882

Holmes Conrad of Winchester

1876–1882

1886–1890

James H. Gilmore of Marion

1876–1882

John Goode Jr. of Norfolk

1876–1882

John Hart of Richmond

1876–1880

Dr. W. C. N. Randolph of Charlottesville

1876–1882

1886–1898

Paul Whitehead of Farmville

1876–1882

John L. Marye of Fredericksburg

1876–1882

1886–1890

John F. Lay of Richmond

1880–1882

Wyatt M. Elliott of Spout Spring

1882–1884

John W. Bell of Culpeper

1882–1886

Francis S. Blair of Wytheville

1882–1886

T. T. Fauntleroy Jr. of Winchester

1882–1883

George W. Hansborough of Salem

1882–1886

William Lamb of Norfolk

1882–1884

Period of Service

John Paul of Ottobine

1882–1883

W. Roane Rufﬁn of Port Walthall

1882–1886

Daniel Ruggles of Fredericksburg

1882–1885

Hugh M. Taylor of Richmond

1883–1886

George T. Barbee of Bridgewater

1883–1886

Edward C. Burks of Lynchburg

1884–1886

William Byrd of Winchester

1885–1886

V. D. Groner of Norfolk

1885–1886

R. W. Martin of Chatham

1886–1888

1892–1896

W. H. Payne of Warrenton

1886–1887

W. A. Stuart of Saltville

1886–1890

E. C. Venable of Petersburg

1886–1888

R. L. Parrish of Covington

1886–1894

George Perkins of Charlottesville

1887–1888

Burr P. Noland of Middleburg

1887–1889

W. H. Bolling of Wytheville

1888–1892

Mason Gordon of Charlottesville

1888–1892

W. Gordon McCabe of Petersburg

1888–1896

Leigh R. Watts of Portsmouth

1888–1892

1893–1898

Camm Patteson of Buckingham

1890–1897

J. Marshall McCormick of Berryville

1890–1898

Basil B. Gordon of Sandy

1892–1896

Thomas S. Martin of Scottsville

1892–1896

Armistead C. Gordon of Staunton

1893–1898

1905–1918

R. Tate Irvine of Wise and Big Stone Gap

1895–1904

1908–1920

Joseph Bryan of Richmond

1896–1902

W. B. McIlwaine of Petersburg

1896–1899

Daniel Harmon of Charlottesville

1896–1912

Charles P. Jones of Monterey

1897–1906

Henry T. Wickham of Richmond

1897–1898

Algernon B. Chandler of Bowling Green

1897–1902

Henry H. Downing of Front Royal

1897–1906

Carter Glass of Lynchburg

1897–1906

George W. Miles of Radford

1897–1902

M. Q. Holt of Wakeﬁeld

1898–1900

Robert Walton Moore of Fairfax

1900–1908

Eppa Hunton Jr. of Richmond

1902–1908

Alexander W. Wallace of Fredericksburg

1902–1905

Henry C. Stuart of Elk Garden

1902–1903

Period of Service

W. H. White of Norfolk and Richmond

1903–1918

Benjamin Franklin Buchanan of Marion

1904–1908

1926–1932

John Wimbish Craddock of Lynchburg

1905–1918

Henry Delaware Flood of Appomattox

1905–1914

James Keith Marshall Norton of Alexandria

1905–1914

1916–1920

George Scott Shackelford of Orange

1908–1912

William Francis Drewry of Petersburg

1908–1916

William Mann Randolph of Charlottesville

1912–1913

Walter Tansill Oliver of Fairfax

1912–1916

1919–1924

George Rust Bedinger Michie of Charlottesville

1913–1920

Joseph William Chinn Jr. of Warsaw

1914–1916

Goodrich Hatton of Portsmouth

1914–1922

Frank Waring Lewis of Morattico

1915–1918

Robert Turnbull of Lawrenceville

1916–1919

Cyrus Harding Walker of Heathsville

1917–1934

John Stewart Bryan of Richmond

1918–1922

Hughes Dalton Dillard of Rocky Mount

1918–1926

Alexander Farish Robertson of Staunton

1918–1922

Edgar Lee Greever of Tazewell

1919–1924

Frederic William Scott of Richmond

1919–1939

William Richard Duke of Charlottesville

1920–1924

Paul Goodloe McIntire of Charlottesville

1922–1934

Emilie Watts McVea of Sweet Briar

1922–1926

Lewis Catlett Williams of Richmond

1922–1946

Marshall Carter Hall of Fairfax

1924–1928

David Denton Hull Jr. of Roanoke

1924–1930

Hollis Rinehart of Charlottesville

1924–1943

Orie Latham Hatcher of Richmond

1925–1926

Mary Cooke Branch Munford of Richmond

1926–1938

Adam Clarke Carson of Riverton

1928–1932

Virginius Randolph Shackelford of Orange

1930–1931

William Alexander Stuart of Abingdon

1931–1938

Robert Gray Williams of Winchester

1931–1946

Christopher Browne Garnett of Cherrydale

1932–1953

James Howard Corbitt of Suffolk

1933–1945

Charles O’Conor Goolrick of Fredericksburg

1933-1946

Beverley Dandridge Tucker Jr. of Richmond

1937–1942

Bessie Carter Randolph of Hollins

1939–1941

Robert William Daniel of Brandon

1939–1940

Edward Reilly Stettinius Jr. of Rapidan

1941–1949

Edward Clifford Anderson of Richmond

1942–1953

Period of Service

Aubrey Gardner Weaver of Front Royal

1942–1944

William Dandridge Haden of Charlottesville

1942–1945

Maitland Hunt Bustard of Danville

1943–1947

Mary Whitworth Calcott of Norfolk

1943–1949

Mary Phoebe Enders Willis of Fredericksburg

1943–1953

Bertha Pﬁster Wailes of Sweet Briar

1943–1955

Lila Gilmer of Pulaski

1943–1945

Richard A. Carrington Jr. of Lynchburg

1944–1955

Barron Foster Black of Norfolk

1944–1956

Dr. John Morehead Emmett of Clifton Forge

1945–1946

1950–1959

Alfred Dickinson Barksdale of Lynchburg

1945–1957

Thomas Benjamin Gay of Richmond

1945–1955

Dr. Hugh Henry Trout Sr. of Roanoke

1945–1950

Benjamin William Mears of Eastville

1946–1957

John Segar Gravatt of Blackstone

1948–1959

Emily Pancake Smith of Staunton

1949–1959

Frank Talbott Jr. of Danville

1949–1960

Whitwell Wentworth Coxe of Roanoke

1953–1962

Lillian Lucille Wheeler of Newport News

1953–1960

Howard Worth Smith of Alexandria and Fauquier

1953–1960

Belva T. Dunn Jones of Richmond

1954–1962

Henry E. McWane of Lynchburg

1954–1962

Horace Alfred Gray Jr. of Richmond

1955–1958

Norborne Berkeley of Bethlehem, Pa.

1955–1963

Herbert C. Pollock of Schenectady, N.Y.

1955–1963

Joseph M. Hartﬁeld of New York, N.Y.

1956–1963

Albert Vickers Bryan of Alexandria

1956–1964

Fred Bonham Greear of Norton

1956–1960

Dr. Walter B. Martin of Norfolk

1956–1964

Raynell G. Lantor of South Boston

1958–1966

Charles R. Fenwick of Arlington

1958–1966

E. Sclater Montague of Hampton

1958–1966

Thomas H. Blanton of Bowling Green

1959–1965

William McCutcheon Camp of Franklin

1960–1966

Hunter Faulconer of Charlottesville

1960–1968

Lawrence Lewis Jr. of Richmond

1960–1968

1970–1978

Dr. Edwin L. Kendig Jr. of Richmond

1961–1972

Walkley Elmes Johnson of Exmore

1962–1970

Frank Waters Rogers of Roanoke

1962–1970

Lewis M. Walker Jr. of Petersburg

1962–1970

Richard S. Cross of Philadelphia, Pa.

1963–1971

William A. Hobbs of Cleveland, Ohio and Charlottesville

1963–1967

Period of Service

Langbourne M. Williams of New York, N.Y., and Rapidan

1963–1968

J. Sloan Kuykendall of Winchester

1964–1972

Molly Vaughan Parrish of Newport News

1964–1972

William M. Birdsong of Suffolk

1966–1970

Emma Ziegler Brown of Richmond

1966–1974

Albertis S. Harrison Jr. of Lawrenceville

1966–1967

Dr. J. Hartwell Harrison of Boston, Mass.

1966–1974

J. Harvie Wilkinson Jr. of Richmond

1966–1970

William S. Potter of Wilmington, Del.

1967–1979

W. Wright Harrison of Norfolk

1968–1976

Joseph H. McConnell of Richmond

1968–1976

C. Stuart Wheatley Jr. of Danville

1968–1972

C. Waller Barrett of Charlottesville

1969–1979

Edwin K. Mattern of Roanoke

1970–1978

Dr. Brownie E. Polly Jr. of Big Stone Gap

1970–1974

Donald E. Santarelli of Alexandria

1970–1978

J. Harvie Wilkinson III of Charlottesville

1970–1973

Hugh Scott of Philadelphia, Pa., and Washington, D.C.

1971–1979

Robert P. Buford of Richmond

1972–1980

Warren B. French Jr. of Edinburg

1972–1980

William E. Leggett of Charlottesville

1972–1980

William L. Zimmer III of Richmond

1972–1980

Dr. DuPont Guerry III of Richmond

1974–1982

Virginia Rogers Holton of Roanoke and McLean

1974–1982

Howard W. McCall Jr. of Darien, Conn.

1974–1982

George C. Palmer II of Charlottesville

1974–1982

William C. Battle of Charlottesville

1976–1980

William M. Dudley of Lynchburg

1976–1984

Stephen C. Mahan of Richmond

1978–1982

Dr. Frank S. Royal of Richmond

1978–1982

D. French Slaughter Jr. of Culpeper

1978–1982

Robert V. Hatcher Jr. of Greenwich, Conn.

1979–1983

Dr. Glenn B. Updike Jr. of Danville

1979–1983

E. Massie Valentine Sr. of Richmond

1979–1987

C. Clarke Cunningham Jr. of Radford

1980–1984

David N. Montague of Hampton

1980–1984

Ferman W. Perry of Winchester

1980–1984

Fred G. Pollard of Richmond

1980–1988

Carl W. Smith of Charlottesville

1980–1988

John S. Battle Jr. of Kilmarnock

1982–1990

William M. Camp Jr. of Franklin

1982–1990

Mrs. George M. Cochran of Staunton

1982–1990

Joshua P. Darden Jr. of Norfolk

1982–1990

William R. Harvey of Hampton

1982–1986

Period of Service

James L. Trinkle of Roanoke

1982–1990

Neal O. Wade Jr. of Houston, Tex.

1982–1986

Henry A. Dudley of Washington, D.C.

1983–1988

Dr. Edgar N. Weaver of Roanoke

1983–1989

James S. Cremins of Richmond

1984–1988

Jesse B. Wilson III of Alexandria

1984–1992

Edward Elliott Elson of Atlanta, Ga.

1984–1992

Thomas E. Worrell Jr. of Charlottesville

1984–1992

Lemuel E. Lewis of Virginia Beach

1986–1990

Charles L. Brown of Princeton, N.J.

1986–1990

S. Buford Scott of Richmond

1987–1994

W. L. Lyons Brown Jr. of Prospect, Ky.

1988–1995

Waller H. Horsley of Richmond

1988–1992

Elizabeth Davies Morie of Lexington and Staunton

1988–1996

Robert G. Butcher Jr. of Richmond

1988–1996

Dr. N. Thomas Connally of Arlington

1989–1995

Hovey S. Dabney of Charlottesville

1990–1998

Dr. John Thomas Hulvey of Abingdon

1990–1994

Evans B. Jessee of Roanoke

1990–1997

Pat Kluge of Charlottesville

1990–1995

Arnold H. Leon of Norfolk

1990–1997

Leigh B. Middleditch Jr. of Charlottesville

1990–1994

Freddie W. Nicholas Sr. of Ettrick

1990–1994

Mortimer M. Caplin of Bethesda, Md.

1992–1997

Warner N. Dalhouse of Roanoke

1992–1997

Albert H. Small of Bethesda, Md.

1992–2000

Daniel A. Hoffler of Eastville

1992–1996

Franklin K. Birckhead of Charlottesville

1994–1998

Dr. Charles M. Caravati Jr. of Richmond

1994–2002

Elsie Goodwyn Holland of Richmond

1994–2003

C. Wilson McNeely III of Charlottesville

1994–1998

John P. Ackerly III of Richmond

1995–2003

T. Keister Greer of Rocky Mount

1995–2003

Elizabeth A. Twohy of Virginia Beach

1995–2003

Champ Clark of Ruckersville

1996–2000

William H. Goodwin Jr. of Richmond

1996–2004

2013–2017

Henry L. Valentine II of Richmond

1996–2000

William G. Crutchﬁeld Jr. of Charlottesville

1997–2005

Terence P. Ross of Alexandria

1997–2005

Walter F. Walker of Seattle, Wash.

1997–2001

James C. Wheat III of Richmond

1997–2001

Timothy B. Robertson of Virginia Beach

1998–2002

2011–2014

Benjamin P. A. Warthen of Richmond

1998–2002

Period of Service

Joseph E. Wolfe of Wise

1998–2002

Thomas J. Bliley Jr. of Richmond and Washington DC

2000–2004

Charles L. Glazer of Connecticut

2000–2004

Gordon F. Rainey Jr. of Richmond

2000–2008

Thomas F. Farrell II of Richmond

2001–2009

Thomas A. Saunders III of New York

2001–2005

Mark J. Kington of Alexandria

2002–2006

2010–2012

Don R. Pippin of Norton

2002–2010

Warren M. Thompson of Herndon

2002–2010

Edwin Darracott Vaughan Jr., M.D., of New York

2002–2010

Susan Y. Dorsey of Mechanicsville

2003–2011

Lewis F. Payne of Nellysford

2003–2011

Georgia M. Willis of Ruther Glen

2003–2007

John O. Wynne of Virginia Beach

2003–2011

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh Jr. of Richmond

2004–2008

W. Heywood Fralin of Roanoke

2004–2012

Glynn D. Key of Washington, D.C.

2004–2012

1.  Macdonald Caputo of Connecticut

2005--2013

Alan A. Diamonstein of Newport News

2005--2013

Vincent J. Mastracco Jr. of Norfolk

2005--2013

Daniel R. Abramson of Alexandria

2006–2010

W. Austin Ligon of Manakin-Sabot

2007–2011

Helen E. Dragas of Virginia Beach

2008–2016

Robert D. Hardie of Charlottesville

2008–2012

2017-

Randal J. Kirk of Belspring

2009–2012

Hunter E. Craig of Charlottesville

2010–2014

Marvin W. Gilliam Jr. of Bristol

2010–2014

Sheila C. Johnson of The Plains

2010–2011

Allison Cryor DiNardo of Alexandria

2011–2015

Stephen P. Long, M.D., of Richmond

2011–2015

George Keith Martin of Richmond

2011–2015

John L. Nau III of Texas

2011–2015

Edward D. Miller, M.D., of Maryland

2012–2015

Frank B. Atkinson of Richmond

2012–2016

Victoria D. Harker of McLean

2012–2016

Bobbie G. Kilberg of McLean

2012–2016

Linwood H. Rose of Harrisonburg

2012–2014

Kevin J. Fay of McLean

2013–2017

Frank E. Genovese of Midlothian

2013–2017

John A. Griffin of New York

2013–2021

L.D. Britt, M.D. of Suffolk

2014–2022

Period of Service

Frank M. Conner III of Alexandria

2014–2022

Barbara J. Fried of Crozet

2014–2022

John G. Macfarlane III of Crozet

2014–2018

Mark T. Bowles of Goochland

2015–

Whittington W. Clement of Richmond

2015–

Tammy S. Murphy of New Jersey

2015–2019

James V. Reyes of Washington, D.C.

2015–

Jeffrey C. Walker of New York

2015–2019

Elizabeth M. Cranwell of Vinton

2016–

Thomas A. DePasquale of Alexandria

2016–

Babur B. Lateef, M.D. of Manassas

2016–

James B. Murray Jr. of Keene

2016–

Robert M. Blue of Richmond

2017–

Maurice A. Jones of New York

2017–2021

C. Evans Poston Jr. of Norfolk

2018–2022

Louis S. Haddad of Suffolk

2019–

Angela Hucles Mangano of California

2019–

Carlos M. Brown of Richmond

2021–

The Honorable L.F. Payne of Charlottesville

2021–

U. Bertram Ellis Jr. of Atlanta, Georgia

2022-

Amanda L. Pillion of Abingdon

2022-

Douglas D. Wetmore of Virginia Beach

2022-

STUDENT MEMBERS OF THE  
BOARD OF VISITORS, FROM 1983

Period of Service

Gordon F. Willis of Fredericksburg

1983–1984

Gregory C. Whitehead of Portsmouth

1984–1985

Timothy J. Ingrassia of Arlington

1985–1986

Angela L. Cleveland of Annandale

1986–1987

Jerry V. Glover of Charlottesville

1987–1988

Glynn D. Key of Chattanooga, Tennessee

1988–1989

Wendelin L. White of Williamsburg

1989–1990

Julie G. Lynn of Arlington

1990–1991

Adam S. Arthur of Harrisonburg

1991–1992

J. Scott Ballenger of Charleston, South Carolina

1992–1993

Christina A. Howe of Charlottesville

1993–1994

Allison S. Linney of Maitland, Florida

1994–1995

Matthew W. Cooper of Florence, Alabama

1995–1996

Sean N. Bryant of Reston

1996–1996

Charles F. Irons of Chapel Hill, North Carolina

1997–1997

Kristine L. LaLonde of Midlothian

1997–1998

J. Michael Allen of Dallas, Texas

1998–1999

Period of Service

Robert G. Schoenvogel of Dallas, Texas

1999–2000

Stephen S. Phelan Jr. of Montgomery, Alabama

2000–2001

Sasha L. Wilson Rehm of Charlottesville

2001–2002

H. Timothy Lovelace Jr. of Roanoke

2002–2003

John R. M. Rodney of Memphis, Tennessee

2003–2004

James W. Head of Charlottesville

2004–2005

Catherine S. Neale of Richmond

2005–2006

Anne Elizabeth Mullen of Greenwood

2006–2007

Carey J. Mignerey of Charlottesville

2007–2008

Adom Getachew of Arlington

2008–2009

Rahul K. Gorawara of Buffalo Grove, Illinois

2009–2010

Stewart H. Ackerly of Richmond

2010–2011

Jonathan B. Overdevest of Bridgetown, New Jersey

2011–2012

Hillary A. Hurd of Richmond

2012–2013

Blake E. Blaze of Osterville, Massachusetts

2013–2014

Margaret N. Gould of Memphis, Tennessee

2014–2015

Daniel T. Judge of Berryville

2015–2016

Phoebe A. Willis of Fredericksburg

2016–2017

Bryanna F. Miller of Lewes, Delaware

2017–2018

Brendan T. Nigro of Cumberland, Rhode Island

2018–2019

Derrick Wang of Moseley

2019–2020

Mazzen S. Shalaby of Fredericksburg

2020–2021

Sarita Mehta of Austin, Texas

2021–2022

Lily A. Roberts of Williamsburg

2022-

FACULTY MEMBERS OF THE  
BOARD OF VISITORS, FROM 2015

Joe Garofalo

2015–2016

Nina J. Solenski, M.D.

2016–2017

Margaret F. Riley

2017–2019

Peter C. Brunjes

2019–2020

Ellen M. Bassett

2020–2021

Joel W. Hockensmith

2021–2022

Susan E. Kirk, M.D.

2022-

BOARD OF VISITORS

SECRETARIES

FROM 1819

Peter Minor

1825

Nicholas P. Trist

1826–1829

Period of Service

John A. G. Davis

1829–1830

Frank Carr

1830–1851

St. George Tucker

1851–1853

R. T. W. Duke

1853–1865

William Wertenbaker

1865–1871

James D. Jones

1871–1882

1886–1900

1902–1904

William A. Winston

1882–1886

J. B. Faulkner

1901–1902

Isaac Kimber Moran

1904–1912

Elmer Irving Carruthers

1912–1947

Vincent Shea

1947–1954

Francis L. Berkeley Jr.

1954–1958

Weldon Cooper

1958–1969

Raymond C. Bice Jr.

1969–1990

Alexander G. Gilliam Jr.

1991–2009

Susan G. Harris

2009–

C

**PERTINENT LEGAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE**

**UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA**

EXCERPTED FROM THE CODE OF

VIRGINIA, 1950, AS AMENDED THROUGH

THE REGULAR SESSION OF THE

2021 GENERAL ASSEMBLY

SECTION 23.1-1300. MEMBERS OF GOVERNING BOARDS; REMOVAL; TERMS; NONVOTING, ADVISORY REPRESENTATIVES.

1.  Members appointed by the Governor to the governing boards of public institutions of higher education shall serve for terms of four years. Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of a term shall be filled for the unexpired term. No member appointed by the Governor to such a governing board shall serve for more than two consecutive four-year terms; however, a member appointed by the Governor to serve an unexpired term is eligible to serve two consecutive four-year terms immediately succeeding such unexpired term. Except as otherwise provided in § [23.1-2601](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-2601/), all appointments are subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. Members appointed by the Governor to the governing board of a public institution of higher education shall continue to hold office until their successors have been appointed and confirmed. Ex officio members shall serve a term coincident with their term of office.
2.  No member appointed by the Governor to the governing board of a public institution of higher education who has served two consecutive four-year terms on such board is eligible to serve on the same board until at least four years have passed since the end of his second consecutive four-year term.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection E or any other provision of law, the Governor may remove from office for malfeasance, misfeasance, incompetence, or gross neglect of duty any member of the board of any public institution of higher education and fill the vacancy resulting from the removal.
4.  The Governor shall set forth in a written public statement his reasons for removing any member pursuant to subsection C at the time the removal occurs. The Governor is the sole judge of the sufficiency of the cause for removal as set forth in subsection C.
5.  If any member of the governing board of a public institution of higher education fails to attend (i) the meetings of the board for one year without sufficient cause, as determined by a majority vote of the board, or (ii) the educational programs required by § [23.1-1304](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1304/) in his first two years of membership without sufficient cause, as determined by a majority vote of the board, the remaining members of the board shall record such failure in the minutes at its next meeting and notify the Governor, and the office of such member shall be vacated. No member of the board of visitors of a four-year public institution of higher education or the State Board for Community Colleges who fails to attend the educational programs required by § [23.1-1304](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1304/) during his first four-year term is eligible for reappointment to such board.
6.  The governing board of each public institution of higher education shall adopt in its bylaws policies (i) for removing members pursuant to subsection E and (ii) referencing the Governor's power to remove members described in subsection C.
7.  The governing board of each public institution of higher education and each local community college board may appoint one or more nonvoting, advisory faculty representatives to its respective board. In the case of local community college boards and boards of visitors, such representatives shall be chosen from individuals elected by the faculty or the institution's faculty senate or its equivalent. In the case of the State Board, such representatives shall be chosen from individuals elected by the Chancellor's Faculty Advisory Committee. Such representatives shall be appointed to serve (i) at least one term of at least 12 months, which shall be coterminous with the institution's fiscal year or (ii) for such terms as may be mutually agreed to by the State Board and the Chancellor's Faculty Advisory Committee, or by the local community college board or the board of visitors, and the institution's faculty senate or its equivalent.
8.  The board of visitors of any baccalaureate public institution of higher education shall appoint one or more students as nonvoting, advisory representatives. Such representatives shall be appointed under such circumstances and serve for such terms as the board of visitors of the institution shall prescribe.
9.  Nothing in subsections G and H shall prohibit the governing board of any public institution of higher education or any local community college board from excluding such nonvoting, advisory faculty or student representatives from discussions of faculty grievances, faculty or staff disciplinary matters or salaries, or any other matter.
10.  The president or any one of the vice presidents of the board of visitors of Virginia Military Institute, the chairman or the vice-chairman of the State Board, and the rector or vice-rector of the governing board of each other public institution of higher education shall be a resident of the Commonwealth.
11.  No baccalaureate public institution of higher education shall employ an individual appointed by the Governor to the board of visitors of such institution within two years of the expiration of his term. Such prohibition shall not apply to the employment of an individual to serve as an institution president or, in the case of Virginia Military Institute, the Superintendent.

SECTION 23.1-1301. Governing boards; powers.
--------------------------------------------

A. The board of visitors of each baccalaureate public institution of higher education or its designee may:

1\. Make regulations and policies concerning the institution;

2\. Manage the funds of the institution and approve an annual budget;

3\. Appoint the chief executive officer of the institution;

4\. Appoint professors and fix their salaries; and

5\. Fix the rates charged to students for tuition, mandatory fees, and other necessary charges.

B. The governing board of each public institution of higher education or its designee may:

1\. In addition to the powers set forth in Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act (§ [23.1-1000](https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/title23.1/chapter10/section23.1-1000/) et seq.), lease or sell and convey its interest in any real property that it has acquired by purchase, will, or deed of gift, subject to the prior approval of the Governor and any terms and conditions of the will or deed of gift, if applicable. The proceeds shall be held, used, and administered in the same manner as all other gifts and bequests;

2\. Grant easements for roads, streets, sewers, waterlines, electric and other utility lines, or other purposes on any property owned by the institution;

3\. Adopt regulations or institution policies for parking and traffic on property owned, leased, maintained, or controlled by the institution;

4\. Adopt regulations or institution policies for the employment and dismissal of professors, teachers, instructors, and other employees;

5\. Adopt regulations or institution policies for the acceptance and assistance of students in addition to the regulations or institution policies required pursuant to § [23.1-1303](https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1303/);

6\. Adopt regulations or institution policies for the conduct of students in attendance and for the rescission or restriction of financial aid, suspension, and dismissal of students who fail or refuse to abide by such regulations or policies;

7\. Establish programs, in cooperation with the Council and the Office of the Attorney General, to promote (i) student compliance with state laws on the use of alcoholic beverages and (ii) the awareness and prevention of sexual crimes committed upon students;

8\. Establish guidelines for the initiation or induction of students into any social fraternity or sorority in accordance with the prohibition against hazing as defined in § [18.2-56](https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/18.2-56/);

9\. Assign any interest it possesses in intellectual property or in materials in which the institution claims an interest, provided such assignment is in accordance with the terms of the institution's intellectual property policies adopted pursuant to § [23.1-1303](https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1303/). The Governor's prior written approval is required for transfers of such property (i) developed wholly or predominantly through the use of state general funds, exclusive of capital assets and (ii)(a) developed by an employee of the institution acting within the scope of his assigned duties or (b) for which such transfer is made to an entity other than (1) the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Investment Authority, (2) an entity whose purpose is to manage intellectual properties on behalf of nonprofit organizations, colleges, and universities, or (3) an entity whose purpose is to benefit the respective institutions. The Governor may attach conditions to these transfers as he deems necessary. In the event the Governor does not approve such transfer, the materials shall remain the property of the respective institutions and may be used and developed in any manner permitted by law;

10\. Conduct closed meetings pursuant to §§ [2.2-3711](https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-3711/) and [2.2-3712](https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-3712/) and conduct business through electronic communication means pursuant to § [2.2-3708.3](https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-3708.3/); and

11\. Adopt a resolution to require the governing body of a locality that is contiguous to the institution to enforce state statutes and local ordinances with respect to offenses occurring on the property of the institution. Upon receipt of such resolution, the governing body of such locality shall enforce statutes and local ordinances with respect to offenses occurring on the property of the institution.

SECTION 23.1-2200. CORPORATE NAME; NAME OF THE UNIVERSITY.

1.  The board of visitors of the University of Virginia (the board) is a corporation under the name and style of "the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia" and has, in addition to its other powers, all the corporate powers given to corporations by the provisions of Title 13.1 except those powers that are confined to corporations created pursuant to Title 13.1. The board shall at all times be under the control of the General Assembly.
2.  The institution shall be known as the University of Virginia (the University).

SECTION 23.1-2201. MEMBERSHIP.

1.  The board shall consist of 17 members appointed by the Governor, of whom at least (i) 12 shall be appointed from the Commonwealth at large, (ii) 12 shall be alumni of the University, and (iii) one shall be a physician with administrative and clinical experience in an academic medical center.
2.  The alumni association of the University may submit to the Governor a list of at least three nominees for each vacancy on the board, whether the vacancy occurs by expiration of a term or otherwise. The Governor may appoint members from the list of nominees.

SECTION 23.1-2202. MEETINGS; OFFICERS; COMMITTEES.

1.  The board shall meet at the University at least once a year and at such other times and places as it determines. Special meetings of the board may be called by the rector or any three members. The secretary shall provide notice of any special meeting to each member.
2.  Five members shall constitute a quorum.
3.  The board shall appoint from its membership a rector to preside at its meetings and a vice-rector to preside at its meetings in the absence of the rector. The board may appoint a substitute pro tempore to preside in the absence of the rector and vice-rector. The rector and the vice-rector shall perform any additional duties as prescribed by the board. The terms of the rector and vice-rector shall be for two years, commencing and expiring as provided in the board's bylaws.
4.  The board shall appoint a secretary who shall serve a term and perform duties as prescribed by the board.
5.  Vacancies in the offices of rector, vice-rector, and secretary may be filled by the board for the unexpired term.
6.  At every annual meeting of the board, the board shall appoint an executive committee for the transaction of business in the recess of the board, consisting of at least three and not more than seven members, to serve for the period of one year or until the next regular annual meeting.

SECTION § 23.1-2204. SALARY OF PRESIDENT AND PROFESSORS; FEES.

The president and each of the professors shall receive a stated salary. The board may supplement such stated salary out of the fees for tuition and other revenues of the University.

SECTION 23.1-2209. POWERS AND DUTIES.

1.  The board shall (i) care for and preserve all property belonging to the University, (ii) grant to the president of the University supreme administrative direction over all the schools, colleges, divisions, and branches of the University, and (iii) examine the progress of the students in each year and give to those who excel in any course of study such honors as it deems proper.
2.  The board may (i) remove the president of the University or any professor with the assent of two-thirds of its members, (ii) prescribe the duties of each professor and the course and mode of instruction, (iii) appoint a comptroller and proctor and employ any other agent or servant, (iv) regulate the renting of the rooms and dormitories, and (v) to enable the board to procure a supply of water and construct and maintain a system of waterworks, drainage, and sewerage for the University, acquire such springs, lands, and rights-of-way as may be necessary, according to the provisions of Title 25.1.

SECTION 23.1-2210. INVESTMENT OF ENDOWMENT FUNDS, ENDOWMENT INCOME, ETC.

1.  As used in this section:

"Derivative" means a contract or financial instrument or a combination of contracts and financial instruments, including any contract commonly known as a "swap, " that gives the University the right or obligation to deliver, receive delivery of, or make or receive payments based on changes in the price, value, yield, or other characteristic of a tangible or intangible asset or group of assets or changes in a rate, index of prices or rates, or other market indicator for an asset or group of assets.

"Financial security" means (i) any note, stock, treasury stock, bond, debenture, evidence of indebtedness, certificate of interest, collateral-trust certificate, preorganization certificate of subscription, transferable share, investment contract, voting-trust certificate, certificate of deposit for a security, or fractional undivided interest in oil, gas, or other mineral rights; (ii) any put, call, straddle, option, or privilege on any security, certificate of deposit, or group or index of securities, including any interest therein or based on the value thereof; (iii) any put, call, straddle, option, or privilege entered into on a national securities exchange relating to foreign currency; (iv) in general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a "security"; or (v) any certificate of interest or participation in, temporary or interim security for, receipt for, guarantee of, or warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase any financial security.

"Option" means an agreement or contract whereby the University may grant or receive the right to purchase, sell, or pay or receive the value of any personal property asset, including any agreement or contract that relates to any security, contract, or agreement.

1.  The board shall invest and manage the endowment funds, endowment income, gifts, all other nongeneral fund reserves and balances, and local funds of or held by the University in accordance with this section and the provisions of the Uniform Prudent Management of Institutional Funds Act (§ [64.2-1100](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-1100/) et seq.).
2.  No member of the board is personally liable for losses suffered by any endowment fund, endowment income, gift, other nongeneral fund reserve and balance, or local funds of or held by the University arising from investments made pursuant to the provisions of subsection B.
3.  The investment and management of endowment funds, endowment income, gifts, all other nongeneral fund reserves and balances, or local funds of or held by the University is not subject to the provisions of the Virginia Public Procurement Act (§ [2.2-4300](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4300/) et seq.).
4.  In addition to the investment practices authorized by the Uniform Prudent Management of Institutional Funds Act (§ [64.2-1100](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-1100/) et seq.), the board may invest or reinvest the endowment funds, endowment income, gifts, all other nongeneral fund reserves and balances, and local funds of or held by the University in derivatives, options, and financial securities.
5.  The authority provided in this section to invest and reinvest nongeneral fund reserves and balances of or held by the University is predicated upon an approved management agreement between the University and the Commonwealth.

SECTION § 23.1-2211. THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE.

A. The University of Virginia's College at Wise (the College), established in Wise County, Virginia, is a division of the University and a baccalaureate public institution of higher education subject to the supervision, management, and control of the board.

B. Direct and indirect appropriations from the Commonwealth to the College shall be expended as directed by the board.

C. All property, property rights, duties, contracts, and agreements of the College are vested in the board. The board shall care for and preserve all property belonging to the College.

D. With respect to the College, the board has all the powers that are vested in the board with respect to the University.

E. The president of the University shall be the principal administrative officer of the College.

F. The board shall fix the title of the chief executive officer of the College.

SECTION 23.1-2212. OPERATIONS OF MEDICAL CENTER.

1.  The ability of the University to provide medical and health sciences education and related research is dependent upon the maintenance of high-quality teaching hospitals and related health care and health maintenance facilities, collectively referred to in this article as the Medical Center, and the maintenance of a Medical Center serving such purposes requires specialized management and operation that permit the Medical Center to remain economically viable and participate in cooperative arrangements reflective of changes in health care delivery.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of § [32.1-124](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-124/) exempting hospitals and nursing homes owned or operated by an agency of the Commonwealth from state licensure, the Medical Center shall be, for so long as the Medical Center maintains its accreditation by a national accrediting organization granted authority by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to ensure compliance with Medicare conditions of participation pursuant to § 1865 of Title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. § 1395bb), deemed to be licensed as a hospital for purposes of other law relating to the operation of hospitals licensed by the Board of Health. The Medical Center shall not, however, be deemed to be a licensed hospital to the extent that any law relating to licensure of hospitals specifically excludes the Commonwealth or its agencies. As an agency of the Commonwealth, the Medical Center shall remain (i) exempt from licensure by the Board of Health pursuant to § [32.1-124](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-124/) and (ii) subject to the Virginia Tort Claims Act (§ [8.01-195.1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.01-195.1/) et seq.). This subsection shall not be construed as a waiver of the Commonwealth's sovereign immunity.
3.  The University may create, own in whole or in part, or otherwise control corporations, partnerships, insurers, or other entities whose activities promote the operations of the Medical Center and its mission; cooperate or enter into joint ventures with such entities and with government bodies; and enter into contracts in connection with its operations. Without limiting the power of the University to issue bonds, notes, guarantees, or other evidence of indebtedness pursuant to subsection D in connection with such activities, no such creation, ownership, or control shall create any responsibility of the University, the Commonwealth, or any agency of the Commonwealth for the operations or obligations of any such entity or in any way make the University, the Commonwealth, or any agency of the Commonwealth responsible for the payment of debt or other obligations of such entity. All such interests shall be reflected on the financial statements of the Medical Center.
4.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Chapter 11 (§ [23.1-1100](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1100/) et seq.), the University may issue bonds, notes, guarantees, or other evidence of indebtedness without the approval of any other governmental body subject to the following provisions:
    1.  Such debt is used solely for the purpose of paying not more than 50 percent of the cost of capital improvements in connection with the operation of the Medical Center or related issuance costs, reserve funds, and other financing expenses, including interest during construction and acquisitions and for up to one year thereafter.
    2.  The only revenues of the University pledged to the payment of such debt are those derived from the operation of the Medical Center and related health care and educational activities, and no general fund appropriation and special Medicaid disproportionate share payments for indigent and medically indigent patients who are not eligible for the Virginia Medicaid Program is pledged for the payment of such debt.
    3.  Such debt states that it does not constitute a debt of the Commonwealth or a pledge of the faith and credit of the Commonwealth.
    4.  Such debt is not sold to the public.
    5.  The total principal amount of such debt outstanding at any one time does not exceed $25 million.
    6.  The Treasury Board approves the terms and structure of such debt.
    7.  The purpose, terms, and structure of such debt are promptly communicated to the Governor and the Chairmen of the House Appropriations and Senate Finance Committees.
    8.  All such indebtedness is reflected on the financial statements of the Medical Center.
5.  Subject to meeting the conditions set forth in subsection D, such debt may be in such form and have such terms as the board may provide and shall be in all respects debt of the University for the purposes of §§ [23.1-1110](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1110/), [23.1-1115](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1115/), and [23.1-1116](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1116/).

SECTION 23.1-2213. MEDICAL CENTER MANAGEMENT; CAPITAL PROJECTS; LEASES OF PROPERTY; PROCUREMENT.

A. The economic viability of the Medical Center, the requirement for its specialized management and operation, and the need of the Medical Center to participate in cooperative arrangements reflective of changes in health care delivery, as set forth in § [**23.1-2212**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-2212), depend upon the ability of the management of the Medical Center to make and promptly implement decisions necessary to conduct the affairs of the Medical Center in an efficient, competitive manner. It is critical to and in the best interests of the Commonwealth that the University continues to fulfill its mission of providing quality medical and health sciences education and related research and, through the presence of its Medical Center, continues to provide for the care, treatment, health-related services, and education activities associated with Virginia patients, including indigent and medically indigent patients. Because the ability of the University to fulfill this mission is highly dependent upon revenues derived from providing health care through its Medical Center, and because the ability of the Medical Center to continue to be a reliable source of such revenues is heavily dependent upon its ability to compete with other providers of health care that are not subject to the requirements of law applicable to agencies of the Commonwealth, the University may implement the following modifications to the management and operation of the affairs of the Medical Center in order to enhance its economic viability:

1.a. For any Medical Center capital project entirely funded by a nongeneral fund appropriation made by the General Assembly, all post-appropriation review, approval, administrative, and policy and procedure functions performed by the Department of General Services, the Division of Engineering and Buildings, the Department of Planning and Budget, and any other agency that supports the functions performed by these departments are delegated to the University, subject to the following stipulations and conditions: (i) the board shall develop and implement an appropriate system of policies, procedures, reviews, and approvals for Medical Center capital projects to which this subsection applies; (ii) the system so adopted shall provide for the review and approval of any Medical Center capital project to which this subsection applies to ensure that, except as provided in clause (iii), the cost of any such capital project does not exceed the sum appropriated for the project and the project otherwise complies with all requirements of the Code of Virginia regarding capital projects, excluding only the post-appropriation review, approval, administrative, and policy and procedure functions performed by the Department of General Services, the Division of Engineering and Buildings, the Department of Planning and Budget, and any other agency that supports the functions performed by these departments; (iii) the board may, during any fiscal year, approve a transfer of up to 15 percent of the total nongeneral fund appropriation for the Medical Center to supplement funds appropriated for a capital project of the Medical Center, provided that the board finds that the transfer is necessary to effectuate the original intention of the General Assembly in making the appropriation for the capital project in question; (iv) the University shall report to the Department of General Services on the status of any such capital project prior to commencement of construction of, and at the time of acceptance of, any such capital project; and (v) the University shall ensure that Building Officials and Code Administrators (BOCA) Code and fire safety inspections of any such project are conducted and such projects are inspected by the State Fire Marshal or his designee prior to certification for building occupancy by the University's assistant state building official to whom such inspection responsibility has been delegated pursuant to § [**36-98.1**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/36-98.1). Nothing in this section shall be deemed to relieve the University of any reporting requirement pursuant to § [**2.2-1513**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-1513). Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection, the terms and structure of any financing of any capital project to which this subsection applies shall be approved pursuant to § [**2.2-2416**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2416).

b. No capital project to which this subsection applies shall be materially increased in size or materially changed in scope beyond the plans and justifications that were the basis for the project's appropriation unless (i) the Governor determines that such increase in size or change in scope is necessary due to an emergency or (ii) the General Assembly approves the increase or change in a subsequent appropriation for the project. After construction of any such capital project has commenced, no such increase or change shall be made during construction unless the conditions in clause (i) or (ii) have been satisfied.

2.a. The University is exempt from the provisions of § [**2.2-1149**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-1149) and any rules, regulations, and guidelines of the Division of Engineering and Buildings regarding leases of real property that it enters into on behalf of the Medical Center and, pursuant to policies and procedures adopted by the board, may enter into such leases subject to the following conditions: (i) the lease shall be an operating lease and not a capital lease as defined in guidelines established by the Secretary of Finance and generally accepted accounting principles; (ii) the University's decision to enter into such a lease shall be based upon cost, demonstrated need, and compliance with guidelines adopted by the board that direct that (a) competition be sought to the maximum practical degree, (b) all costs of occupancy be considered, and (c) the use of the space to be leased is necessary and efficiently planned; (iii) the form of the lease is approved by the Special Assistant Attorney General representing the University; (iv) the lease otherwise meets all requirements of law; (v) the leased property is certified for occupancy by the building official of the political subdivision in which the leased property is located; and (vi) upon entering such leases and upon any subsequent amendment of such leases, the University provides copies of all lease documents and any attachments to such lease documents to the Department of General Services.

b. Notwithstanding the provisions of § [**2.2-1155**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-1155) and subdivision B 1 of § [**23.1-1301**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1301), but subject to policies and procedures adopted by the board, the University may lease, for a purpose consistent with the mission of the Medical Center and for a term not to exceed 50 years, property in the possession or control of the Medical Center.

c. Notwithstanding the provisions of this subdivision, the terms and structure of any financing arrangements secured by capital leases or other similar lease financing agreements shall be approved pursuant to § [**2.2-2416**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2416).

3.a. Contracts awarded by the University on behalf of the Medical Center for the procurement of goods, services, including professional services, construction, or information technology and telecommunications in compliance with this subdivision are exempt from (i) the Virginia Public Procurement Act (§ [**2.2-4300**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4300) et seq.), except as provided in this section; (ii) the requirements of the Division of Purchases and Supply of the Department of General Services as set forth in Article 3 (§ [**2.2-1109**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-1109) et seq.) of Chapter 11 of Title 2.2; (iii) the requirements of the Division of Engineering and Buildings as set forth in Article 4 (§ [**2.2-1129**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-1129) et seq.) of Chapter 11 of Title 2.2; and (iv) the authority of the Chief Information Officer and the Virginia Information Technologies Agency as set forth in Chapter 20.1 (§ [**2.2-2005**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2005) et seq.) of Title 2.2 regarding the review and approval of contracts for (a) the construction of Medical Center capital projects and (b) information technology and telecommunications projects.

b. The University shall adopt and at all times maintain guidelines generally applicable to the procurement of goods, services, construction, and information technology and telecommunications projects by the Medical Center or by the University on behalf of the Medical Center. Such guidelines shall be based upon competitive principles and in each instance seek competition to the maximum practical degree. The guidelines shall (i) implement a system of competitive negotiation for professional services; (ii) prohibit discrimination against the bidder or offeror in the solicitation or award of contracts on the basis of the race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity_,_ or national origin of the bidder or offeror; and (iii) incorporate the prompt payment principles of §§ [**2.2-4350**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4350) and [**2.2-4354**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4354) and may (a) take into account the dollar amount of the intended procurement, the term of the anticipated contract, and the likely extent of competition; (b) implement a prequalification procedure for contractors or products; (c) include provisions for cooperative procurement arrangements with private health or educational institutions or public agencies or institutions of the states or territories of the United States or the District of Columbia; and (d) implement provisions of law.

c. Sections [**2.2-4311**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4311), [**2.2-4315**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4315), [**2.2-4342**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4342) (which shall not be construed to require compliance with the prequalification application procedures of subsection B of § [**2.2-4317**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4317)), and [**2.2-4330**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4330) and §§ [**2.2-4333**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4333) through [**2.2-4341**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4341) and [**2.2-4367**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4367) through [**2.2-4377**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4377) shall continue to apply to procurements by the Medical Center and the University on behalf of the Medical Center.

B. Subject to conditions that are prescribed in the budget bill pursuant to § [**2.2-1509**](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-1509), the State Comptroller shall credit, on a monthly basis, to the nongeneral fund operating cash balances of the Medical Center the imputed interest earned by the investment of such nongeneral fund operating cash balances, including those balances derived from patient care revenues, on deposit with the State Treasurer.

**Of Particular Interest to the Board of Visitors**

General Provisions Sec. 23.1-101, et seq.

Restrictions on Student Speech; limitations Sec. 23.1-401

Constitutionally protected speech; policies,

materials, and reports; report. Sec. 23.1-401.1.

Student journalists; freedom of speech and the press Sec. 23.1-402.1

Bonds and other obligations, Issuance of

Sec. 23.1-1101, et seq.

State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act

Sec. 2.2-3100, et seq.

Virginia Freedom of Information Act

Sec. 2.2-3700, et seq.

Scholarships

Sec. 23.1-612, et seq.

In-State tuition, eligibility for reduced rate tuition

Sec. 23.1-500, et seq.
