Board of Visitors minutes (1821) April 2, 1821
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 2, 1821

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

3 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

1820\. Apr. 1. A special meeting of the Visitors of the University having been called in the month of February to be held on this day Apr. 1. signed by Th: Jefferson, James Madison, Chapman Johnson, Joseph C. Cabell, James Breckenridge & Robert Taylor, and duly notified to John H. Cocke to whom no opportunity had occurred of presenting it for his signature, the sd Th: Jefferson and James Madison attended accordingly, but not constituting a Quorum, no proceedings took place.

TH: JEFFERSON RECTOR

At a meeting of the Visitors of the University of Virginia at the said University on Monday the 2d. of April 1821. present Th: Jefferson Rector, James Breckenridge, Chapman Johnson & James Madison.

A letter having been received by the Rector from Thomas Appleton of Leghorn stating the prices at which the Ionic & Corinthian capitels wanting for the Pavilions of the University may be furnished there in marble, and these prices appearing to be much lower than they would cost if made here in stone, Resolved that it be an instruction to the Committee of Superintendance to procure the sd Capitels in marble from Italy.

Resolved as the opinion of this board, that it is expedient to procure the loan of 60,000.D. or so much thereof as may be necessary, as authorised by the late act of the General Assembly concerning the University of Virginia, and that the Committee of superintendance be instructed to negociate the same with the President & Directors the literary fund of preference, or if not to be obtained from them, then with others according to the authorities of the sd act.

Resolved that it is expedient to proceed with the building of the Library on the plan submitted to the board: provided the funds of the University be adequate to the completion of the buildings already begun, and to the building the Western range of hotels & dormitories, & be also adequate to the completion of the Library so far as to render the building secure & fit for use: & that it be an instruction to the Commee of superintendance to ascertain as accurately as may be the state of accounts under the contracts already made, the expences of compleating the buildings begun & contemplated, and not to enter into any contracts for the Library until they are fully satisfied that, without interfering with the finishing of all the pavilions, hotels & dormitories, begun and to be begun, they have funds sufficient to put the library in the condition above described.

And the board adjourns without day.