Board of Visitors minutes (1822) April 1, 1822
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 1, 1822

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 page

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a meeting of the Visitors of the University of Virginia at the sd University on Monday the 1st. of April 1822 present Thomas Jefferson Rector, Joseph C. Cabell and John Hartwell Cocke, who not being sufficient to constitute a Quorum for business they adjourned indefinitely.