Board of Visitors minutes (1850) September 25, 1850
===================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

September 25, 1850

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

3 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

On Wedensday September the 25th 1850 the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met pursuant to adjourning order of June 29th Ulto. Present Joseph C. Cabell, Rector, John H. Cocke, Th: J. Randolph & Andrew Stevenson.

The following proceedings were had.

A letter was received from the Chairman of the Faculty stating that Mr. Geo. D. Thornhill, who had been compelled by ill health to leave the University in the midst of his examinations for the degree of Dr. of Medicine; that he was a very wortny and diligent Student; and that he had passed satisfactorily through that portion of the examinations which his health had permitted him to stand, and recommending that he be permitted to complete his examination for the degree of M.D. at some convenient period near the beginning of the coming Session: Therefore

1\. Resolved, That the recommendation of the Faculty be complied with; and that Mr. Geo. D. Thornhill be permitted to complete his examination for the degree of Doctor of Medicine at any convenient period near the beginning of the coming session.

2\. Resolved that nothing in the resolution passed at the June session last touching surpluses in the several schools, shall be construed to prevent the several professors from remitting fees or giving credit therefor in particular cases as heretofore; and the same shall not be considered in estimating the maximum compensation prescribed by the said resolution.

The Board proceeded to consider the subject postponed from the last meeting of erecting such additional buildings as in the opinion of the Board of Visitors have become necessary for the purposes of the University- On full consideration the Board are of opinion that the existing buildings are totally insufficient for the accommodation of the increasing number of Students & to insure a successful operation of the Institution, and having moreover received information that the Library Room in the Rotunda, which was not constructed or intended for the assemblage of such large concourses of people as are in the Habit of attending the public exhibitions cannot longer with safety be used for such purposes;- The Board are of opinion that no time should be lost in taking immediate measures for the erection of such needful buildings; Therefore

3\. Resolved, that Mr. Stevenson & Colo. Randolph be appointed a Building Committee, with full power to select a suitable Artitect, & to adopt such plans and make such contracts as will ensure the earliest erection of such Building of Buildings as said Committee shall deem necessary to meet the views of the Board & ensure the accommodations which are necessary for the purposes of the University

4\. Resolved that the application of professor Courtenay & Doct. Harrison for some additional buildings in the rear of their respective Pavilions for the accommodation of their families is deemed reasonable, & that the Executive Committee be instructed to cause such additional building to be erected by the Proctor upon such plan & terms as they may deem advisable & proper.

5\. Resolved, as the sense of the Board of Visitors, that the interests of the University require that such professors as may leave the University in the course of the Vacation should return and be at their posts for one week before the commencement of the course. The Board then adjourned sine die.