Board of Visitors minutes (1860) June 30, 1860
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 30, 1860

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

13 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

STATED MEETING
--------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met this morning at 12 M. Present T. J. Randolph, J. B. Baldwin F. Minor, J.R. Edmunds, James Neeson, W. H. Terrell, R. A. Pryor and P. H. Aylett.

John R. Edmunds esqr. called the Board to order and on his motion Col. Thomas J. Randolph was unanimously elected Rector.

The Rector appointed the following Committees Committee of Finance, Messrs Baldwin, Edmunds & Terrell. Committee on Apparatus, Messrs Edmunds, Minor and Terrell Committee on Buildings & Grounds, Messrs Minor, Aylett & Neeson Committee on Library, Messrs Aylett, Neeson & Baldwin.

On motion of Mr Edmunds Messrs Minor, Baldwin and Ran- dolph were appointed Executive Committee for the next year.

Resolved that so much of the report of the Superintendent of Buildings & Grounds as relates to the Buildings and Grounds be referred to the Committee on buildings and grounds.

The resolution in relation to Thomas P. Holcombe which was laid upon the table at the special session of the Board on the 8th day of February 1860 was on motion of Mr Minor taken up and adopted.

Monday July 2nd 1860

Resolved that in addition to the reports now required of the Professors, it shall hereafter be the duty of each Professor & Instructor in the University to report to the Visitors at each annual meeting in writing.

1\. The condition of instruction in his school or class.

2\. His opinion as to the best means of extending and improving his courses of instruction and of elevating the standards required for degrees.

Prof Coleman was unanimously elected Professor of Latin in the University of Virginia.

Resolved that the Executive Committee make a settlement with Prof Smith for the costs and expenses of the purchase of apparatus in his school and that they provide for the pay- ment of what may be due to him.

Resolved that Professors Davis & Cabell be authorized to continue the employment of Mr Scharf, as artist upon the terms heretofore allowed until the further order of the Board.

Resolved that the Board have seen with regret a failure on the part of some of the Professors to make the weekly and annual reports of their schools which have been required by previous regulation.

Resolved that the salary of B. W. Allen the present Demonstrator of Anatomy be increased three hundred dollars, to take effect from the first day of July, so as to make his salary one thousand dollars.

Resolved that the Salary of the Health Officers be continued at $250 each per annum, until the further order of the Board.

On motion of Mr Pryor

Resolved That for each session, the Proctor shall distribute rooms among Students by lot; provided however, that a Student returning another session, shall have the right to retain the room which he occupied the previous Session.

On the above resolution the vote was

Ayes, Messrs Randolph, Terrell, Neeson, Edmunds, Aylett and Pryor.

Noes, Messrs Baldwin & Minor.

Resolved that the Executive Committee be authorized to have the dining room at the hotel kept by D. Ward supplied with round tables.

The Rector laid before the Board a communication from the Jefferson Society asking for a new Hall. Upon consideration whereof it was resolved

1\. That the Board of Visitors entertain a high opinion of the importance of the Literary Societies as agencies of education and of police in the University and are disposed to furnish them with encouragement in the form of suitable accommodations for their meetings.

2\. That while this is the disposition of the Visitors the financial condition of the University renders it impracticable at present to grant the assistance asked by the Jefferson Society.

Resolved that the instruction of the Intermediate Class in Mathematics be devolved upon the Professor of Mathematics, and that the employment of only one Assistant Instructor in Mathematics be authorized by the Board.

Resolved that the School of History and Literature be added to the course required for the Masters degree. Provided that this requirement shall not be made of any student who has heretofore attended the Schools of the University.

Resolved that the School of History and Literature shall in future be one of the literary schools graduation in any two of which shall be required for the Bachelors degree.

A memorial was received from a number of students asking that the public day be changed from the 4th of July to the 29th of June. On consideration whereof it was resolved that the Board having recently considered the whole subject deem it inexpedient to make the change asked for.

Tuesday July 3rd, 1860

Resolved that the Assistant Instructor in the School of Chemistry be authorised to give instruction in the School upon subjects not now taught therein connected with practical chemistry and to charge to such students as may choose to attend upon his teachings such fees as may be agreed upon between him and the Professor of Chemistry and be approved by the Executive Committee.

Resolved that it be referred to the discretion of the Executive Committee whether to continue the arrangement reported by the Superintendent of B & G for working the steam heating and pumping mechenery and whether they will allow to Janitor Smith the increased compensation suggested by the Superintendent- If any change shall be necessary they will make it and report to the Board a plan for the permanent conduct of the work.

Resolved that the Executive Committee be authorized to borrow such sums of money as may be required for the necessary purposes of the University until the beginning of the next session - the loan to be repaid out of the receipts of the next session.

Resolved that the Executive Committee enquire into the compensation of all the officers of the University, and that they cut off at once all perquisites not expressly recognized by the enactments.

Resolved that in future no wood of any description or for any purpose shall be taken from the lands of the University and the Executive Committee are requested, and the superintendent of public grounds is directed to cause this prohibition to be strictly enforced.

Resolved that the Executive Committee be instructed as soon as practicable to abandon all cultivation of the University farm on the part of the University and to employ any surplus labor of servants necessarily hired for the University, upon the improvement of the grounds according to the general plan heretofore adopted.

The Rector laid before the Board a letter from Alex Galt the sculptor who has been commissioned by the State of Virginia to execute a statue of Jefferson for the University and it appearing that the statue will in all probability be delivered before the next meeting of the Visitors it was resolved

1\. That the Executive Committee be authorized on behalf of the University to co-operate with the State authorities in any arrangement proper for the inauguration of the statue in a manner worthy of state and of the University.

2\. That while the Visitors would by no means anticipate or forestal the action of the Governor of the Commonwealth in carrying into full effect the instructions of the General Assembly, the Executive Committee be instructed to suggest the 13th day of April 1861 as a suitable day for the ceremonies of the inauguration.

3\. That the Executive Committee communicate to the Governor a copy of these resolutions of the correspondence of the Artist in reference to the proper location of the Statue and of the action of the Executive Committee thereon.

Resolved that the Professors of Latin and Greek may hold, near the commencement of each Session an examination of all students who propose to Join the Senior Class of the Professor and any student, whose previous instruction or acquirements will not enable him to make Satisfactory progress in such class, may be refused admittance.

Resolved that the Professor of the School of Latin be authorized to appoint an assistant Instructor according to the enactments.

Resolved that after the Session of 1860-61 the following shall be the arrangement of the Boarding department.

1\. No assignment of rooms to Hotels shall be made, but a student renting a room belonging to the University shall be authorized to board at any Licensed Boarding house or Hotel.

2\. There shall be no regulation of the price of board, but every student shall be left free to contract for his boarding at any licensed Boarding house or Hotel.

3\. The Hotels shall be vacant at the end of the session of 1860-61 at which time the Board will receive proposals for renting them thereafter. The Proctor shall advertise for such proposals under the direction of the Executive Committee.

Every student matriculating shall deposite with the Proctor a sum sufficient to pay three months board to his hotel keeper or boarding house, and every student shall thereafter at the end of every period of three months deposite enough to pay his board for the next quarter or for the residue of the session, at the rate fixed by his contract for board

The following resolution was offered by Franklin Minor.

Resolved that the operation of the resolution adopted by the Board yesterday requiring the Chairman to assign the dormitories to the Students by lot, be suspended until the close of the next session. Lost.

Ayes Messrs Minor, Randolph & Baldwin

Noes Messrs Neeson, Edmunds, Terrell, Aylett and Pryor.

Resolved that the Professors be requested to arrange the Studies of their respective classes with the view of avoiding conflict between the different Schools in the University, and report to the next meeting of the Board.

On the motion of Col Baldwin the preamble and resolutions of Mr Tucker relating to the application of the United Synod of the Presbyterian Church of the United States, which were laid upon the table on the 29th day of June 1869, were taken up. Whereupon

Mr Edmunds moved to postpone the whole subject indefinitely.

The ayes and noes being demanded were as follows

Ayes Messrs Randolph, Aylett, Edmunds, Neeson & Terrell

Noes Messrs Minor, Baldwin & Pryor.

So the whole subject was indefinitely postponed.

Mr Pryor then offered the following resolution

Resolved that Students of the Theological Seminary of the United Synod of the Presbyterian Church be authorized to attend lectures in the University, without matriculation or payment of fees, but not otherwise to participate in the advantages of the University, except that Professors and Students in said Seminary be authorized to avail themselves of the Library of the University in accordance with established regulations.

The ayes & noes being called were as follows.

Ayes Messrs Pryor Minor & Baldwin

Noes Messrs Randolph, Edmunds, Aylett, Terrell & Neeson.

So Mr Pryors resolution was lost.

Wednesday July 4th, 1860

Resolved that permission be granted to the Faculty and such others as may unite with them to build by private subscription upon the precincts of the University a house to be used as a place of religious worship. The location and plan of the building shall be subject to the approval of the Executive Committee and the house shall be the property of the University and at all times subject to the control of the Visitors.

Resolved that leave be given to the two literary societies to build Halls upon the same terms and subject to the same conditions.

Resolved that R. T. W. Duke Esqr. be requested to examine into the boundaries of the University lands and especially into any conflict of boundary with surrounding holders.

That he be authorized upon consultation with the Executive Committee to adjust and settle all questions of conflicting boundary. The Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds is required to do any surveying that Mr Duke shall find expedient.

Resolved that hereafter the regular meeting of the Board shall be on the 2nd day of July of each year.

Resolved that when the Board adjourns it adjourns to meet at this place on the 6th of March 1861.

Prof Maupin was elected Chairman of the Faculty for the next session.

Resolved that after the first day of Septr. next all payments to the University shall be by deposite in the Farmers Bank of Virginia at Charlottesville to the credit of the University upon a certificate of the Bank and that the Proctor shall receive nothing in payment but such certificates.

2\. That all payments out of the Treasury of the University shall be made by check of the Proctor upon the Farmers Bank at Charlottesville payable to the order of the person, to whom such payment is due and specifying the consideration on which the payment is made.

3\. The expenditures in the Superintendents department shall be limited to such sums as shall be transfered to the credit of that department on the Proctors books by order of the Executive Committee.

4\. Expenditures in this department shall be certified by the superintendent to the Proctor and be paid by the Proc- tor as other payments out of the University Treasury.

5\. Checks for change may be drawn by the Proctor in his own favor for sums not exceeding twenty dollars.

6\. The Proctors salary may be drawn upon his own checks specifying the consideration.

7\. The Proctor is directed to prepare and have printed suitable blanks for the Certificates and checks hereby required - subject to the approval of the Executive Committee.

8\. The annuity from the State shall be drawn upon the order of the Proctor countersigned by the Proctor drawn in favor of the Farmers Bank at Charlottesville and deposited in said Bank for collection

9\. The office of Bursar is abolished.

Resolved that the penalty of the Bond required of the Superintendent of Buildings and grounds be reduced to $5000 and that he be required to execute the same before the Executive Committee within ninety days. If he shall fail to give the bond within the time limited it shall be the duty of the Executive Committee to declare his office vacant.

Resolved that the professor of Modern Languages be relieved from the duty of delivering lectures on History and Literature in connection with his School, and that he be allowed in future but one assistant instructor to be employed at the discretion of the Professor in the instruction of his class.

The superintendent of Public Buildings shall perform such duties, in addition to those now existing as the Executive Committee may from time to time impose on him for the benefit of the University.

Resolved that Chap II Section 3 No 8 of the enactments as shown in the abstract of 1859 be amended and re-enacted so as to read as follows.

8\. The candidate for the degree of Master of Arts shall furthermore be required to undergo a general examination before the Faculty at the close of his course of study on all the subjects embraced in the curriculum which must prove satisfactory to the Faculty to entitle him to the degree or at the option of any graduate upon a subject embraced in the course for the Masters degree, he may in any session after such graduation be examined in review upon the subject on which he has graduated and if such examination be found satisfactory he shall not be required to be again examined on that subject.

An application being received from Dr. Howard for an appropriation of $50 for the purchase of obstetrical instruments to aid his illustrations in that branch.

Resolved that $50 be appropriated for the purchase of obstetrical instruments to be paid on the order of Dr Howard.

Resolved that the dormitory next Prof Colemans office be assigned to the Instructor in Latin, and instead of it the dormitory next Prof Colemans Pavilion on the South be assigned to him for the use of his family and that the student thus displaced be allowed the room vacated by the Instructor in Mathematics.

Resolved that the Executive Committee be authorized to have an addition built to the Pavilion occupied by Prof Coleman, at an expense not exceeding twenty five hundred dollars. Provided that Prof Coleman will lend the money to the University to be repaid with interest at such time as may be agreed upon by the Executive Committee and Prof Coleman.

Thursday July 5th 1860

Resolved that it be referred to the discretion of the Executive Committee to extend the water works of the University to the Infirmary and to grant to Mr D'Alfonce the use of the cistern connected with the Gymnasium instead of the use of the water from the pipes as heretofore authorized.

It being represented that the fees now charged upon Diplomas do not pay expenses it is resolved that hereafter the fee for the diploma in Law & Medicine and for the Bachelor and Masters degree be 2.00 each.

Resolved that the Medical officers of the Infirmary be authorized to invest the surplus Infirmary fund in Virginia State Bonds and that the Proctor pay over the fund upon their order.

The Board then adjourned to meet on the 6th day of March 1861.