Board of Visitors minutes (1871) June 27, 1871
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 27, 1871

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

14 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

REGULAR MEETINGUNMATURED DEBTMATURED DEBT
-----------------------------------------

To the Va. Military Institute

$20,000

To the Estate of P. St. G. Cocke

5,000

To the Estate of G. W. Spooner

2,600

To the Estate of L. M. Coleman

2,500

On bonds issued to Martha Randolph

8,500

$38,600

For Carr's Hill

$10,000

For the water works (about)

5,500

For the new Laboratory &c

23,500

For a new dining Hall

4,000

For improvements to Professor Venable's Pavilion

2,500

For improvements on Carr's Hill

1,500

Towards enlargement of the Washington Hall

500

For Professor Mallet's Pavilion

9,250

For Tile Machine

850

For Books, aparatus, &c connected with Schools of Technology & Appl'd Mathematics. (about)

2,000

$59,600

To Va. Military Institute

$20,000

Estate of P. St. G. Cocke

5,000

C. W. Gill- Carr's Hill

2,000

Agricultural Loan

25,000

$52,000

To Martha Randolph

$8,000

To Est. of L. M. Coleman

1,500

To C. S. Venable

1,250

To C. W. Gill- Carr's Hill

2,000

12,750

Floating Debt

18,163

Total existing debt

$82,913

For the two Miller Scholarships

$1000

For the employment of a Superintendent and hands for the Experimental Farm

1000

For the rent of Dr. Boeck's House

300

For Salary of Dr. Boeck

200

For rent of Laboratory

500

For Salary of Dr. Mallet

500

The Board met and was called to order by the Rector. Present B. Johnson Barbour, Bector, Samuel Watts, Thomas J. Pretlow, T. L. Preston, W. E. M. Word, R. W. Hughes, and J. R. Woods.

A letter was reported and read from Wm. Wertenbaker tendering his resignation as Secretary of the Board to take effect after the present session. On motion the consideration thereof was passed by for the present.

The Rector appointed the following Committees-

Finance Messrs Watts & Hughes

Grounds & Buildings Messrs Woods & Word

Apparatus Messrs Pretlow & Word

Library Messrs Preston & Hughes

Resolved That our Secretary be instructed to convey to A. A. Low Esqr. an assurance of our gratitude for his second contribution of $500 for the purchase of Books for the Library and of our lively appreciation of this renewed evidence of the deep interest he displays in the welfare of this Institution

The Annual Report of the Faculty, for the present Session was taken up, read and considered together with the Report of the Chairman of the Faculty.

Resolved That in accordance with the suggestions of the Faculty it is hereby ordered that in future any student may change his Boarding-House at the end of a quarter, (with the consent of the Chairman), making such compensation for Furniture and service as the Faculty may direct.

The suggestion as to the formation of Messes is disapproved.

Resolved That the sum of Fifteen hundred dollars be allowed for publishing the Catalogue, printing and general advertising.

On motion the suggestion of the Faculty changing the time of the Commencement and close of the session, is disapproved.

Resolved That in view of the lawless and irritating conduct of the boys irregularly employed about the University, it is hereby ordered that for the future none but grown servants shall be hired at the Boarding Houses, and the Proctor is specially enjoined to see that this order is implicitly obeyed.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 10 Oclock.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday and was called to order by the Rector.

Present the same members as on yesterday.

The following accounts against the University were presented through the Chairman of the faculty for the consideration of the Board- viz

An account of Mrs. R. A. Sinclair for $35.50 of principal alleged to have been contracted in 1862 for meal

An account of H. Patterson for $12.00 of principal alleged to have been contracted in 1861 for 6 bolts of ribbon- And an account of Barksdale & Fretwell for $3.50 of principal alleged to have been contracted in 1861 by Col. Pandolph for Hack hire &c in attending as Rector the meetings of the Board-Which being considered- On motion

Resolved That the Proctor be instructed to investigate the accounts presented by Sinclair & Patterson and if he shall deem them just he shall pay them, deducting all charges of interest.

The account of Barksdale and Fretwell for $3.50 being certified to by Col. T. J. Randolph Ex-Rector of the University of Va. is hereby ordered to be paid without interest.

Resolved That the kindness and liberalty of W. W. Corcoran Esqr. of Washington in cancelling and returning the Bond of the University which he held is gratefully appreciated by the Board of Visitors- and the Secretary is hereby instructed to communicate a copy of this Resolution to Mr. Corcoran.

Resolved That it was the understanding of the Board that J W. C. Davis assistant in Engineering should have two (2) Dormitories free of rent, and the Proctor is hereby instructed to remit all charges on said account against Mr. Davis.

Resolved 1st That in accordance with the suggestion of the Faculty it is hereby ordered that Eleven Scholarships shall be at once established in the University- viz- 2 in the Law Department, 2 in the Medical and 5 in the Academic Department (as maybe arranged by the Professors thereof)

2nd That these Scholars shall be selected by strict and searching Competitive Examinations from young men coming up from the schools and colleges of the country-Said examinations to be arranged by the Faculty.

3rd The recipients of said scholarships are to be exempt from Tuition and Matriculation and all other collegiate Fees, except for Diplomas and room rent for one year.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 9 Oclock.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday and was called to order by the Rector.

Present the same members as on yesterday

Resolved That the appropriations recommended by the Report of the Faculty for the several Schools and for repairs and play grounds for the Students are hereby allowed as specified, and that the appropriation for Books for the Law department is allowed to the extent of two hundred dollars.

The following Report of the Committee on Finance for 1871 was received, adopted and ordered to be recorded.

Your Committee on Finance respectfully report as follows.

The debt of the University which existed at the time of the appointment of the present Board of Visitors was $38,600 made up as follows-

On the advice of the Faculty and to prevent the occupation of the grounds by objectionable tenants, the present Board in the year     , directed the purchase of the property adjacent to the University, known as Carr's Hill. Since then other debts, looking to the advancement of the University, have been created. The following are purposes for which these debts have been created.

The aggregate of previously existing debt and of expenditures on permanent objects for the advancement of the University, amounts, therefore, to the sum of $98,200.

Partly from the proceeds of the Miller fund, and partly from current receipts, a portion of this expenditure has been paid off; leaving the present indebtedness of the University as of the 1st June 1871, according to the Report of the Proctor & Superintendent, at $82,913, as follows

Eight per cent bonds, to the amount of $30,000, as the Board is aware, have been placed on the market, and it is expected that they will produce a fund adequate to pay off the matured debt of the University, and to extinguish the floating debt; thus placing the entire debt of the institution on a stable footing.

The financial policy of the Board should, of course, be, to provide for the gradual liquidation of this debt. The practice of a rigid economy by the Board of Visitors and the limitations of the salaries of the Professors, to a maximum of $3000 have placed the finances of the University on such a footing as to encourage the Proctor & Superintendent to believe that, by the year 1880, with the practice of an enlightened economy, he may be able to pay off the new issue of 8 per cent bonds for $30,000. This seems to us quite practicable. The receipts of the University for the year ending June 1st 1871, from ordinary sources, including $8,800 from the Miller Fund, were $48,427.33, and we see no reason to apprehend any other falling off in these receipts, than a reduction of the income from the Miller Fund to about $6,500 The ordinary expenditures of the institution may be reduced within $38,000 as is proved by the fact, that those for the year ending with the beginning of the present month, including interest paid, were $38,184.

The Excess of ordinary receipts over ordinary expenditures during the year just ended were nearly five thousand dollars. Your Committee believe that this excess, during the year now commenced, can be brought up to seven or eight thousand dollars; the amount depending of course very much upon the policy of the Board in authorizing extraordinary outlays of money.

You Committee recommend a rigid policy in this regard; by adopting and pursuing which, a surplus of five thousand dollars or more may be carried each year to the credit of the debt

All of which is respectfully submitted.

The Committee on "Grounds & Buildings" submitted the following report.

We, the undersigned, a Committee appointed to examine the condition of the "Buildings and Grounds" of the University, respectfully report, that they have performed that duty, and are gratified to find that they are in good condition. But we would recommend that the Proctor be requested to have the roof on the Southern part of Dr. Harrison's House examined, and endeavour to prevent the same from leakage, if the same can be done without too large an expenditure of money.

We, also, recommend the necessary repairs to the "Instrument room" of Professor Smith, and the erection of the Partition in the passage adjoining the same by the University employees, as the said Smith may direct.

John R. Woods Committee

W. E. M. Word Committee

The above report was received and the following resolution adopted;

That the Proctor be authorized to make the repairs suggested on Dr. Harrison's Pavilion at a cost not exceeding two hundred & fifty dollars.

Resolved, that the Health Officers be requested to furnish the Board at each annual meeting with a report of the number of students who shall have received medical attendance from them during the year, specifying those attended to at the Infirmary and those receiving medical attendance without.

Resolved, that the Chairman of the Faculty be respectfully requested to enquire into the present ownership of the building on the University grounds, known as the "Temperance Hall", and now occupied as a Post-Office, Book Store &c- leaving it discretionary with him after such investigation whether he will take further action- and if necessary to employ Counsel at a stipulated fee.

Resolved that the Executive Committee be instructed to enquire into the propriety of reducing the salary of the Janitor to$300 in view of the diminution of his duties—;and to take final action in the case.

In view of the recommendation of the Faculty and seeking as far as practicable to equalize the compensation of Professors. It is ordered that whenever hereafter any Professor whose income falls below the Maximum (after counting Fees, Salary, pay for services at Infirmary or from any other ligitimate source) shall have fifteen but less that twenty non-paying students in his class he shall receive one hundred dollars-and when the number reaches twenty or more he shall receive one hundred and fifty dollars- Provided as intimated above that the maximum of Income shall in no case be exceeded, and further that it is not intended to interfere with the aggregate number of non-paying students now allowed in the University.

Resolved, That James D. Jones is hereby elected as Secretary of the Board of Visitors, his duties to commence as of the 1st of July- his compensation to be $100 per year, said sum to be deducted from the sum of $800 now paid to Wm. Wertenbaker leaving his compensation at $700 per annum as from the 1st day of July 1871.

Resolved, that the sum of $325 is hereby appropriated (out of the Infirmary Fund) for Repairs and Equipment of said Infirmary.

Professor Charles S. Venable was re-elected Chairman of the Faculty.

Resolved that the Board declines to charge the repairs of the Parsonage upon the Treasury of the University.

Resolved, That the Proctor be enjoined to employ the most rigorous and efficient means to prevent such trespasses as have heretofore been made on the property of the University- and to that end that he shall be especially vigilant in warning all parties concerned, that no lands or tenements belonging to the University shall be rented to, or occupied by any person not in the regular employment of a Resident.

The following proceedings of the Trustees of the "Miller Fund" were communicated to the Board and ordered to be spread upon the minutes.

At a meeting of the Trustees of the Miller Fund held for the benefit of the University of Virginia the following proceedings were had.

Resolved, That the following appropriations be made for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day of October 1871.

Provided, however, that should the State of Virginia pay the January interest upon the state stock held by the Trustees, the salary of Prof. Mallet shall be increased to $1000.

Resolved as the sense of this Board that the unexpended balance of the appropriation made last year, for the employment of a superintendent and hands for, and the conduct of, the Experimental Farm, should be applied exclusively to those purposes.

A copy from the minutes

R. T. W. Duke, Secretary

The Board then adjourned sine die.

Wm. Wertenbaker Secretary

B. Johnson Barbour Rector of U. of Virginia

At a called meeting of the Board of Visitors, held May 23rd 1872. Present B. Johnson Barbour, R. G. H Kean, E. B. Montague, Micajah Woods, and Thomas Smith.

B. Johnson Barbour late Rector called the Board to order, and on motion, it was resolved that he be requested to act as Rector pro tempore.

The Rector PT laid before the Board a report which had been unanimously adopted by the Faculty at a meeting held on the 22nd instant, requesting that some definite arrangement be made before the close of the session for filling the vacant Chair of Chemistry and Pharmacy- and also a report from the Proctor exhibiting the condition of the finances of the University-

Whereupon

Resolved, that a committee of three (of which the Rector pro tem shall be one) is appointed to confer with the Faculty in reference to the Chair of Chemistry and Pharmacy- and to counsel with the Trustees of the "Miller Fund" on all points in which said Chair pertains to the Department of Agriculture-and the said Committee is further instructed (as far as is compatible with the discharge of the duties above imposed) to consider the financial condition of the University,- and to report the result of their investigations to the next meeting of this Board. The Committee under the foregoing resolution consists of Messrs. Barbour, Kean and Woods.

Resolved, that Mason Gordon Esq. be appointed Commissioner of Accounts for the University of Virginia- before whom the Proctor shall make his monthly settlements- provided that the fee for each settlement shall not exceed the compensation now allowed by law to Commissioners in Chancery for similar work under orders of the Court and provided further that the fee for each settlement shall not exceed ten dollars.

Resolved, that the Proctor submit to the Board of Visitors through the Chairman of the Faculty, at the regular meeting in June next, a detailed estimate of the expenditures for the ensuing fiscal year, showing under appropriate heads, the various items of necessary expenditure, basing such estimates upon the average expenditures of past years, as far as applicable and having regard to a rigorous economy.

That the Proctor in like manner, report to the next meeting of this Board a more detailed statement than the one submitted at the present meeting of this Board of the funded and floating debt of the University, showing the actual debt due; the date and amount of each issue of Bonds outstanding; the rate of interest payable on each class; the time when each did or will mature and the terms on which loans have been effected during the current fiscal year.

Resolved, that in view of the financial condition of the University developed by the report of the Proctor transmitted to this Board at the present meeting by the Chairman of the Faculty, and of the suggestion contained in his letter, the Chairman and Faculty are requested to give special consideration to the subject of Scholarships as a means of financial relief, in the Report to the next regular meeting of this Board to be made under the first Resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors on the 2nd August 1864- and to make such other suggestions looking to the improvement of the finances of the University as they may deem expedient.

Resolved that the applications of Professors Davis, Venable, Boeck and Southall in reference to change of residence and occupancy of the vacant Pavilion be laid on the table for consideration at the next meeting of the Board.

The Board adjourned to meet again on Saturday the 22nd day of June at 3 Oclock P.M. and the Secretary was instructed to give notice of the meeting to the absent members of the Board.

The Board met and was called to order by the Rector. Present B. Johnson Barbour, Bector, Samuel Watts, Thomas J. Pretlow, T. L. Preston, W. E. M. Word, R. W. Hughes, and J. R. Woods.

A letter was reported and read from Wm. Wertenbaker tendering his resignation as Secretary of the Board to take effect after the present session. On motion the consideration thereof was passed by for the present.

The Rector appointed the following Committees-

Finance Messrs Watts & Hughes

Grounds & Buildings Messrs Woods & Word

Apparatus Messrs Pretlow & Word

Library Messrs Preston & Hughes

Resolved That our Secretary be instructed to convey to A. A. Low Esqr. an assurance of our gratitude for his second contribution of $500 for the purchase of Books for the Library and of our lively appreciation of this renewed evidence of the deep interest he displays in the welfare of this Institution

The Annual Report of the Faculty, for the present Session was taken up, read and considered together with the Report of the Chairman of the Faculty.

Resolved That in accordance with the suggestions of the Faculty it is hereby ordered that in future any student may change his Boarding-House at the end of a quarter, (with the consent of the Chairman), making such compensation for Furniture and service as the Faculty may direct.

The suggestion as to the formation of Messes is disapproved.

Resolved That the sum of Fifteen hundred dollars be allowed for publishing the Catalogue, printing and general advertising.

On motion the suggestion of the Faculty changing the time of the Commencement and close of the session, is disapproved.

Resolved That in view of the lawless and irritating conduct of the boys irregularly employed about the University, it is hereby ordered that for the future none but grown servants shall be hired at the Boarding Houses, and the Proctor is specially enjoined to see that this order is implicitly obeyed.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 10 Oclock.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday and was called to order by the Rector.

Present the same members as on yesterday.

The following accounts against the University were presented through the Chairman of the faculty for the consideration of the Board- viz

An account of Mrs. R. A. Sinclair for $35.50 of principal alleged to have been contracted in 1862 for meal

An account of H. Patterson for $12.00 of principal alleged to have been contracted in 1861 for 6 bolts of ribbon- And an account of Barksdale & Fretwell for $3.50 of principal alleged to have been contracted in 1861 by Col. Pandolph for Hack hire &c in attending as Rector the meetings of the Board-Which being considered- On motion

Resolved That the Proctor be instructed to investigate the accounts presented by Sinclair & Patterson and if he shall deem them just he shall pay them, deducting all charges of interest.

The account of Barksdale and Fretwell for $3.50 being certified to by Col. T. J. Randolph Ex-Rector of the University of Va. is hereby ordered to be paid without interest.

Resolved That the kindness and liberalty of W. W. Corcoran Esqr. of Washington in cancelling and returning the Bond of the University which he held is gratefully appreciated by the Board of Visitors- and the Secretary is hereby instructed to communicate a copy of this Resolution to Mr. Corcoran.

Resolved That it was the understanding of the Board that J W. C. Davis assistant in Engineering should have two (2) Dormitories free of rent, and the Proctor is hereby instructed to remit all charges on said account against Mr. Davis.

Resolved 1st That in accordance with the suggestion of the Faculty it is hereby ordered that Eleven Scholarships shall be at once established in the University- viz- 2 in the Law Department, 2 in the Medical and 5 in the Academic Department (as maybe arranged by the Professors thereof)

2nd That these Scholars shall be selected by strict and searching Competitive Examinations from young men coming up from the schools and colleges of the country-Said examinations to be arranged by the Faculty.

3rd The recipients of said scholarships are to be exempt from Tuition and Matriculation and all other collegiate Fees, except for Diplomas and room rent for one year.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 9 Oclock.

UNMATURED DEBTMATURED DEBT
--------------------------

To the Va. Military Institute

$20,000

To the Estate of P. St. G. Cocke

5,000

To the Estate of G. W. Spooner

2,600

To the Estate of L. M. Coleman

2,500

On bonds issued to Martha Randolph

8,500

$38,600

For Carr's Hill

$10,000

For the water works (about)

5,500

For the new Laboratory &c

23,500

For a new dining Hall

4,000

For improvements to Professor Venable's Pavilion

2,500

For improvements on Carr's Hill

1,500

Towards enlargement of the Washington Hall

500

For Professor Mallet's Pavilion

9,250

For Tile Machine

850

For Books, aparatus, &c connected with Schools of Technology & Appl'd Mathematics. (about)

2,000

$59,600

To Va. Military Institute

$20,000

Estate of P. St. G. Cocke

5,000

C. W. Gill- Carr's Hill

2,000

Agricultural Loan

25,000

$52,000

To Martha Randolph

$8,000

To Est. of L. M. Coleman

1,500

To C. S. Venable

1,250

To C. W. Gill- Carr's Hill

2,000

12,750

Floating Debt

18,163

Total existing debt

$82,913

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday and was called to order by the Rector.

Present the same members as on yesterday

Resolved That the appropriations recommended by the Report of the Faculty for the several Schools and for repairs and play grounds for the Students are hereby allowed as specified, and that the appropriation for Books for the Law department is allowed to the extent of two hundred dollars.

The following Report of the Committee on Finance for 1871 was received, adopted and ordered to be recorded.

Your Committee on Finance respectfully report as follows.

The debt of the University which existed at the time of the appointment of the present Board of Visitors was $38,600 made up as follows-

On the advice of the Faculty and to prevent the occupation of the grounds by objectionable tenants, the present Board in the year     , directed the purchase of the property adjacent to the University, known as Carr's Hill. Since then other debts, looking to the advancement of the University, have been created. The following are purposes for which these debts have been created.

The aggregate of previously existing debt and of expenditures on permanent objects for the advancement of the University, amounts, therefore, to the sum of $98,200.

Partly from the proceeds of the Miller fund, and partly from current receipts, a portion of this expenditure has been paid off; leaving the present indebtedness of the University as of the 1st June 1871, according to the Report of the Proctor & Superintendent, at $82,913, as follows

Eight per cent bonds, to the amount of $30,000, as the Board is aware, have been placed on the market, and it is expected that they will produce a fund adequate to pay off the matured debt of the University, and to extinguish the floating debt; thus placing the entire debt of the institution on a stable footing.

The financial policy of the Board should, of course, be, to provide for the gradual liquidation of this debt. The practice of a rigid economy by the Board of Visitors and the limitations of the salaries of the Professors, to a maximum of $3000 have placed the finances of the University on such a footing as to encourage the Proctor & Superintendent to believe that, by the year 1880, with the practice of an enlightened economy, he may be able to pay off the new issue of 8 per cent bonds for $30,000. This seems to us quite practicable. The receipts of the University for the year ending June 1st 1871, from ordinary sources, including $8,800 from the Miller Fund, were $48,427.33, and we see no reason to apprehend any other falling off in these receipts, than a reduction of the income from the Miller Fund to about $6,500 The ordinary expenditures of the institution may be reduced within $38,000 as is proved by the fact, that those for the year ending with the beginning of the present month, including interest paid, were $38,184.

The Excess of ordinary receipts over ordinary expenditures during the year just ended were nearly five thousand dollars. Your Committee believe that this excess, during the year now commenced, can be brought up to seven or eight thousand dollars; the amount depending of course very much upon the policy of the Board in authorizing extraordinary outlays of money.

You Committee recommend a rigid policy in this regard; by adopting and pursuing which, a surplus of five thousand dollars or more may be carried each year to the credit of the debt

All of which is respectfully submitted.

The Board met and was called to order by the Rector. Present B. Johnson Barbour, Bector, Samuel Watts, Thomas J. Pretlow, T. L. Preston, W. E. M. Word, R. W. Hughes, and J. R. Woods.

A letter was reported and read from Wm. Wertenbaker tendering his resignation as Secretary of the Board to take effect after the present session. On motion the consideration thereof was passed by for the present.

The Rector appointed the following Committees-

Finance Messrs Watts & Hughes

Grounds & Buildings Messrs Woods & Word

Apparatus Messrs Pretlow & Word

Library Messrs Preston & Hughes

Resolved That our Secretary be instructed to convey to A. A. Low Esqr. an assurance of our gratitude for his second contribution of $500 for the purchase of Books for the Library and of our lively appreciation of this renewed evidence of the deep interest he displays in the welfare of this Institution

The Annual Report of the Faculty, for the present Session was taken up, read and considered together with the Report of the Chairman of the Faculty.

Resolved That in accordance with the suggestions of the Faculty it is hereby ordered that in future any student may change his Boarding-House at the end of a quarter, (with the consent of the Chairman), making such compensation for Furniture and service as the Faculty may direct.

The suggestion as to the formation of Messes is disapproved.

Resolved That the sum of Fifteen hundred dollars be allowed for publishing the Catalogue, printing and general advertising.

On motion the suggestion of the Faculty changing the time of the Commencement and close of the session, is disapproved.

Resolved That in view of the lawless and irritating conduct of the boys irregularly employed about the University, it is hereby ordered that for the future none but grown servants shall be hired at the Boarding Houses, and the Proctor is specially enjoined to see that this order is implicitly obeyed.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 10 Oclock.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday and was called to order by the Rector.

Present the same members as on yesterday.

The following accounts against the University were presented through the Chairman of the faculty for the consideration of the Board- viz

An account of Mrs. R. A. Sinclair for $35.50 of principal alleged to have been contracted in 1862 for meal

An account of H. Patterson for $12.00 of principal alleged to have been contracted in 1861 for 6 bolts of ribbon- And an account of Barksdale & Fretwell for $3.50 of principal alleged to have been contracted in 1861 by Col. Pandolph for Hack hire &c in attending as Rector the meetings of the Board-Which being considered- On motion

Resolved That the Proctor be instructed to investigate the accounts presented by Sinclair & Patterson and if he shall deem them just he shall pay them, deducting all charges of interest.

The account of Barksdale and Fretwell for $3.50 being certified to by Col. T. J. Randolph Ex-Rector of the University of Va. is hereby ordered to be paid without interest.

Resolved That the kindness and liberalty of W. W. Corcoran Esqr. of Washington in cancelling and returning the Bond of the University which he held is gratefully appreciated by the Board of Visitors- and the Secretary is hereby instructed to communicate a copy of this Resolution to Mr. Corcoran.

Resolved That it was the understanding of the Board that J W. C. Davis assistant in Engineering should have two (2) Dormitories free of rent, and the Proctor is hereby instructed to remit all charges on said account against Mr. Davis.

Resolved 1st That in accordance with the suggestion of the Faculty it is hereby ordered that Eleven Scholarships shall be at once established in the University- viz- 2 in the Law Department, 2 in the Medical and 5 in the Academic Department (as maybe arranged by the Professors thereof)

2nd That these Scholars shall be selected by strict and searching Competitive Examinations from young men coming up from the schools and colleges of the country-Said examinations to be arranged by the Faculty.

3rd The recipients of said scholarships are to be exempt from Tuition and Matriculation and all other collegiate Fees, except for Diplomas and room rent for one year.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 9 Oclock.

UNMATURED DEBTMATURED DEBT
--------------------------

To the Va. Military Institute

$20,000

To the Estate of P. St. G. Cocke

5,000

To the Estate of G. W. Spooner

2,600

To the Estate of L. M. Coleman

2,500

On bonds issued to Martha Randolph

8,500

$38,600

For Carr's Hill

$10,000

For the water works (about)

5,500

For the new Laboratory &c

23,500

For a new dining Hall

4,000

For improvements to Professor Venable's Pavilion

2,500

For improvements on Carr's Hill

1,500

Towards enlargement of the Washington Hall

500

For Professor Mallet's Pavilion

9,250

For Tile Machine

850

For Books, aparatus, &c connected with Schools of Technology & Appl'd Mathematics. (about)

2,000

$59,600

To Va. Military Institute

$20,000

Estate of P. St. G. Cocke

5,000

C. W. Gill- Carr's Hill

2,000

Agricultural Loan

25,000

$52,000

To Martha Randolph

$8,000

To Est. of L. M. Coleman

1,500

To C. S. Venable

1,250

To C. W. Gill- Carr's Hill

2,000

12,750

Floating Debt

18,163

Total existing debt

$82,913

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday and was called to order by the Rector.

Present the same members as on yesterday

Resolved That the appropriations recommended by the Report of the Faculty for the several Schools and for repairs and play grounds for the Students are hereby allowed as specified, and that the appropriation for Books for the Law department is allowed to the extent of two hundred dollars.

The following Report of the Committee on Finance for 1871 was received, adopted and ordered to be recorded.

Your Committee on Finance respectfully report as follows.

The debt of the University which existed at the time of the appointment of the present Board of Visitors was $38,600 made up as follows-

On the advice of the Faculty and to prevent the occupation of the grounds by objectionable tenants, the present Board in the year     , directed the purchase of the property adjacent to the University, known as Carr's Hill. Since then other debts, looking to the advancement of the University, have been created. The following are purposes for which these debts have been created.

The aggregate of previously existing debt and of expenditures on permanent objects for the advancement of the University, amounts, therefore, to the sum of $98,200.

Partly from the proceeds of the Miller fund, and partly from current receipts, a portion of this expenditure has been paid off; leaving the present indebtedness of the University as of the 1st June 1871, according to the Report of the Proctor & Superintendent, at $82,913, as follows

Eight per cent bonds, to the amount of $30,000, as the Board is aware, have been placed on the market, and it is expected that they will produce a fund adequate to pay off the matured debt of the University, and to extinguish the floating debt; thus placing the entire debt of the institution on a stable footing.

The financial policy of the Board should, of course, be, to provide for the gradual liquidation of this debt. The practice of a rigid economy by the Board of Visitors and the limitations of the salaries of the Professors, to a maximum of $3000 have placed the finances of the University on such a footing as to encourage the Proctor & Superintendent to believe that, by the year 1880, with the practice of an enlightened economy, he may be able to pay off the new issue of 8 per cent bonds for $30,000. This seems to us quite practicable. The receipts of the University for the year ending June 1st 1871, from ordinary sources, including $8,800 from the Miller Fund, were $48,427.33, and we see no reason to apprehend any other falling off in these receipts, than a reduction of the income from the Miller Fund to about $6,500 The ordinary expenditures of the institution may be reduced within $38,000 as is proved by the fact, that those for the year ending with the beginning of the present month, including interest paid, were $38,184.

The Excess of ordinary receipts over ordinary expenditures during the year just ended were nearly five thousand dollars. Your Committee believe that this excess, during the year now commenced, can be brought up to seven or eight thousand dollars; the amount depending of course very much upon the policy of the Board in authorizing extraordinary outlays of money.

You Committee recommend a rigid policy in this regard; by adopting and pursuing which, a surplus of five thousand dollars or more may be carried each year to the credit of the debt

All of which is respectfully submitted.