Board of Visitors minutes (1873) June 25, 1873
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 25, 1873

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

30 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Estimate of Expenditures for the year ending June 1874.
-------------------------------------------------------

To the Professor of Latin

$1000

To the Professor of Greek

1000

To the Professor of Modern Languages

1000

To the Professor of Mathematics

450

To the Professor of Applied Mathematics

800 M.B.$20

To the Professor of Natural Philosophy

900

To the Professor of Chemistry & Pharmacy which $500 is paid by the Miller Board

550 of

To the Professor of Medicine

1000

To the Professor of Physiology & Surgery

1000

To the Professor of Anatomy &c

1000

To the Professor of Moral Philosophy

1000

To the Professor of History & Literature

1000

To the Professor of Int1. & Const1. Law

100

To the Professor of Common & Stat Law

100

$10,900

Salaries of 14 Professors

$10,400.00

Rent of 2 Professors (commutations)

600.00

Salary of assistant Professor

500.00

Salary of officers

3,600.00

Salary of adjunct Profes or (A & A Chy)

800.00

Advertising

600.00

Printing

140.00

Interest

6,500.00

Catalogue

400.00

Repairs & Improvements

2,000.00

Labour

1,200.00

Add for improvements & change ordered in the large room in rear of the Chemical lecture room

50.00

Library

200.00

Add for repairs in removal of water tanks

100.00

Contingent Expenses

1,250.00

Ice

200.00

Fuel estimated at

6,000.00

School of Nat. Ph.

100.00

School of Chemistry

150.00

School of Applied Math

30.00

Insurance

600.00

Gas

500.00

Diplomas

300.00

Infirmary

Matron

$480.00

Servant

135.00

Physicians

1500.00

Fuel

145.00

Gas

25.00

Ice

15.00

Repairs

40.00

Contingent

90.00

2,400.00

B. Arbogast

Ky.

F. H. Bowman

Tenn.

R. Dabney

Tenn.

V. Dabney

Va.

Noak K. Davis

Ky.

John Hart

Va.

B. B. Minor

Mo.

Charles Morris

Ga.

James C. Southall

Va.

W. Shelton

Tenn.

John Torrance

Canada

Thoas. M. Thorpe

Arkansas

T. D. Witherspoon

Univ. Va.

Ch. H. Winston

Va.

To pay the balance due the University for the last fiscal year

$698.28

For salary of Professor of Agriculture

2000.00

For rent of house for same

300.00

For salary of Prof. Mallet

500.00

For salary of Prof. Boeck

200.00

For experimental farm

1000.00

For two Scholarships

1000.00

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on the 23d of September last.

Present- R. G. H. Kean, Rector, E. B. Montague, Moses Walton, Thomas Smith, & Micajah Woods.

The Rector appointed the following Committees. Finance Com. Mr. Walton, Col. Campbell, & Maj. Carrington Committee on Grounds & Buildings Judge Smith, Col. Berkeley Committee on Apparatus Col. Montague, Mr. Baker Committee on Library Mr. Woods, Mr. Baker.

The Rector laid before the Board the following communications,

1\. The Report of the Faculty

2\. The Report of the Librarian,

3\. The Report of the Proctor and Superintendent, all of which were reserved for future consideration.

Resolved that B. Johnson Barbour Esq. be requested to prepare the proceedings on the occasion of the inauguration of the Jefferson Statue, and to have the same and the address of Hugh Blair Grigsby at the time, published, for the use of the University provided the cost shall not exceed the unexpended balance of the appropriation for the erection of said statue.

The Chairman of the Executive Committee made a verbal report of the transaction of said Comee since the last meeting of the Board, - as follows-

1\. That the General Assembly had been applied to, for, and had passed an act authorizing the appointment of a Conservator of the Peace at the University- Acts 1872-3 Ch. 11.

2\. That in consequence of the movement made by the Society of Alumni, the Comee regarding it as injudicious to have two competing agencies in the field, have taken no action under the resolution of the last meeting in respect to the appointment of an agent to solicit endowments.

3\. That the General Assembly has passed the profered Act to encourage donations to the University. See Acts 1872-3 ch 121

4\. That the Comee had found it necessary to authorize the appropriation for Gas, to be exceeded by a sum not exceeding $75.

5\. That application had been made to the Genl. Assembly for the passage of an act looking to a connection between the University and the Public Free School System as indicated on page 364 of this Record, \[p. 319 typed copy\], but in consequence of the development of very unlooked-for opposition in the House of Delegates the proposition was withdrawn.

6\. That the Comee had at the instance of the Faculty, authorized the expenditure of $150 in advertizing during the months of May & June, as authorized by the Board.

7\. That the illness & death of Dr. Wm. H. McGuffey had rendered necessary some arrangements for completing the term of instruction, and conducting the Examinations in the School of Moral Philosophy for the remainder of the session, and this had been done, by the Faculty with the approval of the Comee through an arrangement between the family of Dr. McGuffey and D.T.D. Witherspoon in a manner reported to be highly satisdactory.

8\. That Prof. L. Boeck having been appointed a Commissioner to the Vienna Exposition by the U. S. Government, the Comee had given him leave to absent himself after the 7th June, 1873, for the residue of the present session, the examinations in his class having been completed and arrangments made for continuting the instruction of the class, to the end of the session.

At a regular annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Va held at their office in the said University on the 25th day of June in the year Eighteen hundred & seventy-three.

The Rector laid before the Board the correspondence between him & the Hon. Hamilton Fish, Secretary of State of the United States in respect to the gift to the Library of this University by the Government of Great Britain of certain publications of the Record Office consisting of Two hundred and fifty-eight volumes transmitted by the British Government to this Universty through the American Minister to Great Britain and the State Department at Washington, from which correspondence and the papers therewith as well as from the report of the Librarian it appears that the intrinsic value of the said gift, is enhanced by the marked courtesy with which it was made. Whereupon it was resolved

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby record their grateful thanks to the Government of Her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain for the very valuable contribution to the Library of the University made in November last consisting of Tow Hundred & fifty-eight volumes of the Publications of the Record Commission.

That this Board desires at the same time, to put on record their high appreciation of the very courteous manner in which they are informed the said gift was made.

That the Librarian of the University cause the said volumes to be placed together in a separate alcove in the Library conspicuously marked with the words "Donation by the Government of Great Britain", and that he cause each of the said volumes to be marked with a label bearing the same words.

That the Secretary of State of the United States be respectfully requested to cause a copy of these proceedings to be communicated to the proper Department of her Majesty's Government in token of the sentiments of this Board- and to that end that a copy thereof duly attested under the seal of the University be transmitted by the Rector to the said Secretary of State.

Resolved further That the thanks of this Board are due, and are hereby tendered to the Hon. Hamilton Fish, Secretary of State of the United States and to the American Legation at the Court of Great Britain for the kind interest, efficient aid and courtesy extended to this University in connection with the said donation. The Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 10 A. M.

University of Virginia

June 26th 1873

The Board met pursuant to adjournment yesterday.

In addition to the members present yesterday Col. W. R. Berkeley reported. Major Isaac H. Carrington appointed to fill the vacancy occasioned by the resignation of B. Johnson Barbour Esq. presented his credentials. Major Carrington was added to the Finance Committee.

On motion all papers pertaining to Finance were referred to Com. on Finance.

On motion the Board proceeded to elect a Chairman - Col. Venable was elected on motion of Mr. Woods.

Dr. Page's Report was received.

The Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 10 A. M.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present, the Rector and the same members as on yesterday and in addition, Col. Campbell.

The Rector laid before the Board a letter from Prof. Charles S. Venable expressing his thanks for the kind manner in which the Board expressed their confidence in him as the Chief Executive Officer of the University and asking for reasons stated in the letter to be permitted to decline the office- which letter was ordered to be filed.

The Finance Committee submitted its report, which being considered was adopted as follows:

Resolved-

1\. That in view of the continued embarrassment of the finances of the University and the difficulties arising out of this fact- it is deemed best to avoid the adoption of any general rules of action in relation to salaries, at the present session of the Board.

2\. That without intending to establish any precedent for future action, the Board with a view to provide for the present emergency deem it expedient to fix the salaries of the Professors for the ensuing year as follows: viz-

Ordered

1\. That until the further order of the Board, the following be the stated salaries paid to the respective Professors, viz-

2\. That each professor be paid the full amount of fees of tuition paid on account of his chair.

3\. That if in any school or chair the aggregate emoluments from salary and fees be less than $2000 there shall be paid to the professors, from the general fund, for instruction of state students, and other non paying students such a sum as shall make his aggregate pecuniary emoluments up to the sum of $2000.

4\. That if the aggregate number of paying students shall decline below the number of the present session (1872-3) then in each school or chair affected by such decline, to an extent greater than if such decline were uniform in all the schools or chairs, there shall be paid to the professors thereof out of the general fund for instruction to state students and other non-paying students, such a sum as will make his emoluments equal to what they would be, if such decline were uniform in all the schools or chairs.

5\. No professor shall under any circumstances whatever, receive less than the sum of $1000 a year. And if by reason of any general disaster, such as the dispersion of the students early in any session by the breaking out of an epidemic, or other extraordinary misfortune to the University, the foregoing scheme of compensation is rendered inequitable, the Board reserves to itself the authority to make such special provision in such case as to it may seem just and right, and will be consistent with the general laws.

On motion the further consideration of the Report of the Finance Committee was postponed until tomorrow.

The Board then proceeded to consider the letter of Prof. Venable noted as filed, in a previous part of today's proceedings. It was thereupon

Resolved That the Board of Visitors recognize the sufficiency of the reasons given by Professor Venable for declining the office of Chairman of the Faculty.

The Board desires to express upon its records its earnest appreciation of the zeal, ability and success with which Professor Venable has administered the office.

On motion the Board adjouened to meet tomorrow at 10 A.M.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday.

The Board proceeded, on motion to consider the Report of the Faculty, thereupon

1\. Resolved, That the Professor of Natural History & Agriculture be authorized to use the large room in the rear of the old chemical lecture room for his lectures and for the display of Specimens connected with his Department.

2\. Resolved, That the Professors of Greek be authorized to use the room heretofore assigned to the school of Moral Philosophy such arrangements to be made as will avoid any conflict in the use of the same between the two schools.

3\. Resolved That a diploma of graduation may be given in General Chemistry, in industrial Chemistry or in industrial & general Chemistry- the arrangement of degrees to correspond with that hitherto in use in the School of Modern Languages.

4\. Resolved, That a diploma of graduation may be given in analytical Chemistry and a certificate of proficiency in Agricultural Chemistry.

5\. Resolved, That the three preceding resolutions shall take effect as of the commencement of the session of 1872-3, and that diplomas and certificates of proficiency as therein provided for be awarded accordingly.

6\. Resolved, That a diploma of graduation may be given in Natural History and Agriculture- as in each of the schools of the University and a certificate of proficiency in Natural History when studied alone.

Resolved, That hereafter there be one assistant in the school of Applied Mathematics, with a salary of $500 who shall also give instruction in drawing, for which he shall receive from each paying student in the drawing class a fee of $10.

Ordered, That the Pavilion No. 9 heretofore occupied by Prof. McGuffey, be assigned to Professor Venable, and the Pavilion now occupied by Professor Venable be assigned to Professor Peters, with authority to the said Professors to make such different allotment from the foregoing, of the said Pavilions, between them, as they may agree upon.

Resolved That there shall be no curtailment of the appropriation for labor or repairs & improvements, but that the wages paid for an Overseer shall not exceed five hundred dollars.

The Committee on Grounds & Public Buildings submitted their Report which the Board proceeded to consider.

Resolved, That in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on Grounds & Public Buildings, the cowhouses & stables on the road to the Cemetary be removed and that the Executive Committee be directed to indicate the site where other such buildings may be erected by the Professors desiring them upon such terms as may be agreed upon between said Executive Committee and professors.

Resolved, In accordance with the report of the Committee on Grounds & Buildings it is ordered that the Procter proceed to remove the small building at the Eastern Entrance of the Grounds now occupied as a shoe shop, and that such removal be made before the 1st of October next.

Resolved, That the Chairman of the Faculty be requested to have the water tanks over the library inspected and take such steps as may be necessary for the certain protection of the books from injury by the overflow or leaking of these tanks and that it is hereby intended to put it in the discretion of the Chairman to repair or remove the tanks or cut off the water from the same, provided that no expense exceeding one hundred dollars shall be incurred without consultation with the Executive Committee.

On motion, ordered, that the Report of the Committee on Grounds & Public Buildings be received and recorded.

Resolved, That the Board have received with much gratification the information through the Committee on Public Buildings &c, that the paths which so seriously disfigure the lawn have been overcome, and that it is their earnest desire that the Superintendent shall use every expedient for the prevention of such paths in the entire grounds.

Resolved, That the attention of the Proctor is directed to the condition of Dawson Row as reported by the Committee on Public Buildings with instructions to make the repairs that may be necessary for their preservation out of the general appropriation for repairs & improvements but not to the neglect of more essential matters.

On motion the Board proceeded to the election of Chairman of the Faculty, which resulted in the unanimous election of Professor James F. Harrison, his term to commence on 4th July 1873.

Resolved, That Natural History i.e. Botany & Zoology, be replaced amongst the requirements for the degree of Bachelor of Science.

Resolved, That authority is granted for the establishment of a practical Laboratory class in Pharmacy and that a Certificate of proficiency, may be granted to students passing an approved examination in such Laboratory class & upon the regular course of Lectures upon this subject; and that the fee for such Laboratory course & Lectures be the same as that now charged to Medical students working in said Laboratory.

Resolved, That the Rector be requested to confer with the Miller Board in reference to the recommendations of the Faculty in regard to an appropriation for the working Laboratory and Scholarships.

Resolved, that the following appropriations be made for the ensuing year, viz

Resolved, That all students over 21 years of age and such students, under that age as may receive the permission of the Faculty may reside outside the University, provided that upon such students there be changed pro-rata the rents of all rooms left unoccupied within the University itself; Such assessment not to exceed to any student the ordinary amount of room rent.

Resolved, That the following students who have been prevented from standing the examinations for graduation in their respective schools by sickness, be permitted to stand their examinations at such times as may be determined by their professors of the respective schools in which they have so failed to be examined. Mr. George Mason, in the school of law.

Mr. John R. Steele in the school of law.

Mr. Thos. E. Wilson in the Department of Medicine

Mr. Geo. A. Boone in the Department of Medicine

Report of the Committee on Grounds & Buildings.

To the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

The Committee to whom has been committed for consideration and report the condition of grounds & buildings beg leave to submit the following: That the usual inspection indicates the great need for repairs throughout the entire University property- the buildings are suffering in many cases to decay, and in some to ruin whilst the grounds themselves present appearance that does not impress us and cannot impress the public favorably. We would renew the suggestions continued in report of the Comee for June meeting 1872 that some means should be devised and steps taken to repair until it is made water proof the Terrace around the Lawn. The brick walks under the Terrace will evidence to the most casual observer dampness & moisture which your committee fear may be prejudicial to health; and are admonished by the few cases of Typhoid Fever to which attention has been called in the annual report of the Faculty, that no pains should be spared or reasonable outlay of money withheld that may be conducive to the health of the University. Some of the houses on what is known as Dawson's Row and to which the attention of the Comee was called present evidences of dilapidation and neglect which should have been remedied- for example one & possibly more of these houses where false or Dummy windows were intended by the architect and so left rough & uncouth for blinds or shutters, still remain so & detract greatly from the symetry \[sic\] & appearance of the building. The steps made of common pine & so easily replaced are in several cases decayed & in two entirely rotten. There are very many repairs which your comtee could suggest and to which attention could be profitably directed: but the embarrassments of the University and the small & comparatively inadequate sum that can be appropriated for this purpose render it useless in this report. Your Comtee however would call the special attention of the Board to the water tanks upon the rotunda building immediately above the Library. In consequence of some defect in original construction or in subsequent use or decay (neither of which it would seem has been remedied) The Books of the Library have been seriously injured from leakage of these tanks. The Librarian informed the Comtee that various efforts had been made to remedy the defects, but invariably without success; and as evidence exhibited to us many of the Books which had been permanently injured & in a few instances rendered unintelligable and worthless. Your Committee recommend an investigation of some competent engineer of these tanks and that provision be made for their thorough and effective repair or removal.

The paths & short cuts made promiscuously through the grounds are an eye sore; and should be broken up by some vigorous means if only vigorous ones will accomplish that end. They are unnecessary, unsightly and mar the general appearance of the grounds. The Comtee have been gratified at the partial success which seems to have followed the endeavours which they are informed have been repeatedly made to break up the paths especially the entire disappearance of them on the Lawn. But they insist that renewed exertions and endeavor accompanied with every kind of expedient shall be resorted to until they shall disappear entirely from every part of the ground & Lawn. Underbrush, bushes, saplings & dead limbs disfigure the trees & foliage in some cases & may be easily cut up & destroyed & should be done.

Your Comtee recommend the approval of the suggestion contained in the 6th item of the report of the Faculty- and that leave be granted the Professor of Natural History and Agriculture to use for purposes of Lectures, display of specimens, illustrations &c &c the large room in rear of the old Chemical lecture room and that the appropriation of $50 as suggested by the Faculty for repairs be audited and allowed. The Comtee also recommend for approval 7th item of said Report; and in as much as lectures of the two schools of Moral Philosophy & Greek are delivered, one in the morning & one in the evening that they both be permitted the use of the room heretofore used only for the Moral Philosophy class.

The consideration of the 12th item said report belongs perhaps strictly to the Finance Comtee yet this Committee deems it proper & pertinent for them at least to say, that the rooms & houses & property of the University could be less exposed to disfigurement and better preserved if these rooms & houses were in the possession of and under the control of the students; and that in this view the suggestions of the Faculty are entitled to consideration.

Your Committee further recommend the repair of the lightning rods upon the public Buildings & Professors houses as may be deemed necessary.

The attention of the Comtee has been called to a range of stables, cow houses &c in rear of Dawson's Row, lying immediately on the graveled walk to the University Cemetery- They are in horrible condition, seemed scarcely to be used for any purpose, still less that for which they are designed, the tops of some of them fallen in and in all unsightly and apparently useless. It is recommended that these stables be removed and the brick either sold or stored for use of the University.

The shed houses opposite the Infirmary used as stables were directed by Res- of last annual meeting to be removed by session 73-4-Reference is now made to these resolutions that the attention of the Superdt may be recalled to them and that they be strictly enforced.

Your Comtee have made some inspection of the Experimental Farm, Prof. Page in the report heretofore filed before the Board leaving exclusive reference to this Farm details its establishment with the difficulties which he has experienced in its advancement and development the past session 72-3 owing partially to a protracted drought; to his dependence upon irregular labor; to want of team &c. &c. The farm itself evidence to your Comtee that as yet it is in its infancy and needs persistent labor and attention if it is to become an ornament or of practical value to the University. There was nothing to indicate either high culture or thorough development in design or execution. The spot selected for this Farm seems to be unfortunate and altogether undesirable- the soil extremely poor and barren, in part very moist and easily overflowed until put in good heart and thorough drainage it is not probable the Experimental Farm will be of practical benefit to the University. This matter however is more directly connected with the Miller Board of Trustees and therefore your Comtee declines to make any suggestions to the Visitors or propose any Resolutions.

Your Comtee find scattered about the grounds and lawns of the University the objectionable Alantton Tree. We think these shd be removed and thoroughly extirpated. The grounds are will filled with handsome trees which are neither offensive in odour or prolific in progeny as the Alanttons, and no detriment could be done by this removeal.

Your Comtee have observed in the public entrance to the grounds from Charlottesville side and immediately at the Post Office & directly visible from the R Rd. a small wooden structure which detracts from the appearance of that portion of the grounds and would doubtless impress unfavorably a stranger visiting the University. It seems now to be used as a shoe shop. It is thought best to remove this shop at once and your Committee so recommend.

The usage which seems to have prevailed at the University for many years would seem to be justification sufficient for the recommendation that Yr. committee makes that the McGuffey pavilion be assigned Prof. Venable. This usage together with the reasons assigned by Prof. Venable in his communication upon this subject to the Board, and a like Communication of Prof. Peters herewith filed as an Exhibit (A) waiving his application heretofore made, have removed all difficulties out of the way of the Comtee and they therefore approve the application of Prof. Venable that the McGuffey Pavilion be assigned him; that the one heretofore used by Prof. Venable be placed at the disposal of Prof. Peters; with the proviso that Prof. Venable and Peters may make any other disposal of these two pavilions among themselves that may be mutually satisfactory.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

The testimonials of the following candidates for the Chair of Moral Philosophy were presented to the Board, viz:

On motion the Board adjourned to meet on Monday next the 30th inst. at 10 A. M.

Jas. D. Jones Secretary

R. G. H. Kean Rector.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on Saturday last. Present, the same members as on Saturday last. The Board was called to order by the Rector and proceeded to business.

Resolved, The Board having been informed, by the Chairman of the Faculty, that satisfactory arrangements were made between the family of Professor McGuffey and Rev. T. D. Witherspoon in reference to the salary of the Professor of Moral Philosophy for the session of 1872-3 it is ordered that said stated salary be paid in full.

The Library Committee submitted its Report which on motion after being read was received and ordered to be recorded.

To the Rector & Board of Visitors of The University of Va.

The undersigned on behalf of the Committee on the Library begs leave to report that the condition of the books in the Library is as good as could be expected in view of the difficulties in the way of preserving them encountered by the Librarian Some of the books in a few shelves have been injured by the leakage or overflow from the water tanks above the Rotunda. Your Committee has been informed by the Chairman of the Faculty that this damage resulted chiefly from the over flow of the water from the tanks and that recently pipes have been so laid on the roof of the Rotunda as to prevent a recurrence of this overflow.

Your Committee would recommend that the sum in the hands of the Librarian collected for fines during the past year amounting to $74 be specially appropriated for binding.

Your Committee would further recommend that the Board do specially acknowledge by resolution the donation of 35 vols. of the London Philosophical Transactions made by J. R. McDaniel Irby Esqr. a student of the University of this session.

Next to the contribution made by the British Government to the Library this one made by Mr. Irby is probably the most valuable of the past years donations.

On motion, Resolved, that the secretary return to the parties entitled to the same, the testimonials of the unsuccessful candidates for the Chair of Moral Philosophy, upon application to him so to do by the parties respectively- And that the Secretary retain and file in his office the testimonials of Prof. Noah K. Davis this day elected to the Chair of Moral Philosophy.

Ordered, That the Proctor be directed to provide, out of the appropriation for repairs & improvements, a black-board of plank for the lecture room of applied mathematics, & Civil Engineering and to raise the partition cutting off a small recess in said room, so as to protect the models therein from injury.

Resolved, That the Librarian be authorized and instructed to expend the sum of $74 collected by him for fines during the year, in binding such books in the Library as he may deem in need thereof.

Resolved, That the thanks of this Board be tendered to Mr. J. R. McDaniel Irby for his generous donation of the Transactions of the London Philosophical Society reported by the Librarian, and that the Secretary of the Board do communicate this resolution to Mr. Irby with the assurance to him of their high appreciation of the spirit evinced by him in making such a contribution to the Library.

Resolved, That the Washington Society be and is hereby relieved and discharged from the debt of $500 due to the University for an advance to enlarge their Hall, made some years ago by the Board of Visitors.

On motion the Board proceeded to the election to fill the vacancy on the Executive Comtee caused by the resignation of Hon. B. Johnson Barbour as a member of the Board, which resulted in the unanimous election of Judge Thomas Smith.

On motion the Board proceeded to the election of a Professor to fill the Chair of Moral Philsophy made vacant by the death of Dr. Wm. H. McGuffey.

The third ballot resulted as follows: For Dr. Noah K. Davis the following votes were cast viz: R. G. H. Kean, Wm. R. Berkeley, E. B. Montague, Thomas Smith and Micajah Woods.- 5 For Mr. James C. Southall the following votes were cast viz; Moses Walton, Joseph T. Campbell, and Isaac H. Carrington- 3

On motion the election of Dr. Noah K. Davis was then made unanimous.

Resolved, That in as much as, in the opinion of the Board of Visitors it is questionable whether property which belongs to one of the public corperations of the State of Virginia can be condemned for other public uses and whether such property can be aliened in any form except by authority of an Act of the General Assembly, it is therefore inexpedient for this Board to consent to the establishment of a public road through the grounds of the University or to consent to the comdemnation of any portion thereof for such purpose.

At the same time the Board desire to put on record their indisposition to obstruct the reasonable wishes of any portion of the people residing in the neighborhood of the University.

Resolved That the order directing the removal of the stables on the road to the Cemetery be modified so as to except the two next to the Cemetery provided that the parties now using them shall repair & improve them so as to make them presentable, until they can provide other accommodations.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 10 A.M.

Jas. D. Jones Secretary

R. G. H. Kean Rector

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday.

The Committee on Apparatus submitted its Report which upon being read on Motion was received and ordered to be recorded.

To the Rector of the Board of Visitors of the University of Va.

The Committee on Apparatus respectfully report that they have made the best examination of the subjects submitted to them, which their limited time and information warranted. Professors Smith and Mallet have both complied with the laws of the University & returned to your Board full, and we presume, accurate inventories of apparatus belonging to the Philosophical cabinet of the University & to the schools of general, applied, anylitical and agricultural Chemistry, which are desired to be read as a part of this report. Your Committee feel constrained to state in general terms that the condition of all the departments examined, shows even to the uninitiated, not only that master minds control, but that material exactness prevails. It is hardly necessary to say that from Professors Smith & Mallet your Committee received courtesy & aid in their investigation which was as instructive as pleasant. Your Committee are pleased to say, that no special appropriations are asked for by either of these Professors, not because they are not needed, but because they appreciate the financial embarrassments of the University.

Ordered

That the Judge of the County Court of Albemarle be requested to appoint Major Green Peyton Conservator of the Peace, with jurisdiction within the limits of the University property under the provisions of the Act of Assembly approved on the 23d day of December 1872 authorizing such appointments.

Ordered, That the Faculty be authorized in their discretion to assign a room for the use of the Editors of the Magazine in some locality deemed suitable by them, provided that no room be assigned which may be required for the occupancy of a student or students.

Resolved, That the salary of the adjunct Professor of Analytical and Agricultural Chemistry be fixed at the sum of $800 a year.

Resolved, That in order to elevate the literary merit of the addresses made by students upon the public occasions in the University, it is ordered that every such address shall be submitted to a committee of the faculty at least ten days before its delivery, for examination and approval as to subject, style, treatments and length.

Resolved, That in view of the interest attached to the development of physical science in the country, that the Executive Committee of the Board be authorized to grant a leave of absence to Prof. Smith for such time during the next session as they may deem advisable and not detrimental to the interests of the University, should be desire to deliver a series of lectures on subjects pertaining to his department.

Ordered, That hereafter the annual meetings of the Board of Visitors be held on the Monday next before the Public Day.

The following communication from the Miller Board was presented and read:

Resolved, That the Board of Visitors be respectfully requested to cause to be prepared annually by the Professors in the Department of Agriculture and laid before the Board the following reports:

1st. A report showing the workings of that Department for the preceding year.

2d. A report making suggestions as to the best mode of applying the interest on the "Miller Fund" for the ensuing year to the exclusive support of that Department

A copy, Teste

R. T. W. Duke Secretary

Ordered, That the Professors of the Agricultural Department make annually and submit to this Board for transmission to the Board of Trustees of the "Miller Fund" the Reports contemplated in the foregoing communication.

Resolved, That the executive committee be required to keep a record of their proceedings during the intervals between the regular annual sessions of this Board, and report the same to such annual sessions- and that they be instructed to procure a suitable book in which such proceedings shall be kept.

Whereas the appropriation for the matron of the Infirmary was by inadvertence at the last annual meeting $400- instead of $480.

Resolved, The Proctor is authorized & directed to credit and pay to the said Matron the sum of Eighty dollars not appropriated for the year 1872-3.

The Board of Visitors hereby express upon their record their sense or the loss which the University has sustained by the death of Professor William H. McGuffey. His long and faithful service in the chair of Moral Philosophy in this University has illustrated the character of the model educator. He possessed the rare power of stimulating the intellectual faculties of his pupils, and training them to habits of original thought. His learning, zeal, industry and skill, aided in raising the standard, and extending the fame of this University- while his personal qualities his devoted piety, independence, and rectitude in every relation made him an example of the highest style of manhood

The following being reported from the Miller Board was read:

Resolved That the Board of Trustees make the following disposition of the balance of interest now on hand and which will accrue during the next fiscal year,

That the net balance of accruing interest shall be applied by Prof. Page to the building a house for the farm-hands, for publication of circulars in regard to procuring specimens &c for his department, for moving putting in proper order and working the tile machine, and for utilizing the sewage of the University- and that any surplus, so far as may be necessary, shall be applied by Prof. Page in such manner as he may deem best to promote the efficiency of his chair.

A copy Teste

R. T. W. Duke, Secretary

Ordered, That the appropriations of the Miller fund be paid out of the sums paid over to the University by the Trustees of the Miller Fund, as indicated by the foregoing communication

The following communication was also reported from the Miller Board.

Resolved- that until otherwise ordered this Board will annually appropriate five hundred dollars to a Scholarship in the Agricultural Department of the University of Va., that in the opinion of this Board the appointment to such Scholarship should be for one year only- and that the person so appointed should be required to confine himself exclusively to the studies taught in the Department of Agriculture unless expressly authorized by the Faculty to attend other Schools in addition thereto. But nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to imply that this Board will not appropriate the sum of five hundred dollars per year for the benefit of each of the two gentlemen already appointed to Scholarships in this department until the period for which they have been respectively appointed shall expire

A copy Teste,

R.T.W. Duke, Secretary

Ordered, That the Miller Scholarships be established upon the footing indicated in the foregoing resolution of the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund and be announced in the Catalogue accordingly.

On motion the Board adjourned until tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock.

Jas. D. Jones, Secretary

R. G. H. Kean, Rector

No formal meeting of the Board was held on this day.

The Board met at 9 1/2 A.M. Present the same members as heretofore except Messrs. Walton & Carrington.

1\. On motion Resolved, That a class of Practical Physics be established in the School of Natural Philosophy and that such class be formed whenever at least six students shall signify their desire to attend it

2\. The Faculty is empowered to award a diploma of graduation to such student therein as shall exhibit distinguished proficiency in the exercises and examinations in such class.

3\. The course in such class will embrace the study of the construction, management, preservation and practical use of Physical Apparatus; the use of instruments of precision the conduct of experiments; and such other appropriate subjects as the Professor of Natural Philosophy shall prescribe.

4\. The fee for instruction in such class shall be one hundred dollars, to be paid by each student who shall attend six days in the week, and fifty dollars for such as attend three days in the week- such fees to include all charges for materials used-but not to include charges for damages done to apparatus.

Ordered that the Board Stand adjourned until the next regular annual meeting in June 1874.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on the 23d of September last.

Present- R. G. H. Kean, Rector, E. B. Montague, Moses Walton, Thomas Smith, & Micajah Woods.

The Rector appointed the following Committees. Finance Com. Mr. Walton, Col. Campbell, & Maj. Carrington Committee on Grounds & Buildings Judge Smith, Col. Berkeley Committee on Apparatus Col. Montague, Mr. Baker Committee on Library Mr. Woods, Mr. Baker.

The Rector laid before the Board the following communications,

1\. The Report of the Faculty

2\. The Report of the Librarian,

3\. The Report of the Proctor and Superintendent, all of which were reserved for future consideration.

Resolved that B. Johnson Barbour Esq. be requested to prepare the proceedings on the occasion of the inauguration of the Jefferson Statue, and to have the same and the address of Hugh Blair Grigsby at the time, published, for the use of the University provided the cost shall not exceed the unexpended balance of the appropriation for the erection of said statue.

The Chairman of the Executive Committee made a verbal report of the transaction of said Comee since the last meeting of the Board, - as follows-

1\. That the General Assembly had been applied to, for, and had passed an act authorizing the appointment of a Conservator of the Peace at the University- Acts 1872-3 Ch. 11.

2\. That in consequence of the movement made by the Society of Alumni, the Comee regarding it as injudicious to have two competing agencies in the field, have taken no action under the resolution of the last meeting in respect to the appointment of an agent to solicit endowments.

3\. That the General Assembly has passed the profered Act to encourage donations to the University. See Acts 1872-3 ch 121

4\. That the Comee had found it necessary to authorize the appropriation for Gas, to be exceeded by a sum not exceeding $75.

5\. That application had been made to the Genl. Assembly for the passage of an act looking to a connection between the University and the Public Free School System as indicated on page 364 of this Record, \[p. 319 typed copy\], but in consequence of the development of very unlooked-for opposition in the House of Delegates the proposition was withdrawn.

6\. That the Comee had at the instance of the Faculty, authorized the expenditure of $150 in advertizing during the months of May & June, as authorized by the Board.

7\. That the illness & death of Dr. Wm. H. McGuffey had rendered necessary some arrangements for completing the term of instruction, and conducting the Examinations in the School of Moral Philosophy for the remainder of the session, and this had been done, by the Faculty with the approval of the Comee through an arrangement between the family of Dr. McGuffey and D.T.D. Witherspoon in a manner reported to be highly satisdactory.

8\. That Prof. L. Boeck having been appointed a Commissioner to the Vienna Exposition by the U. S. Government, the Comee had given him leave to absent himself after the 7th June, 1873, for the residue of the present session, the examinations in his class having been completed and arrangments made for continuting the instruction of the class, to the end of the session.

At a regular annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Va held at their office in the said University on the 25th day of June in the year Eighteen hundred & seventy-three.

The Rector laid before the Board the correspondence between him & the Hon. Hamilton Fish, Secretary of State of the United States in respect to the gift to the Library of this University by the Government of Great Britain of certain publications of the Record Office consisting of Two hundred and fifty-eight volumes transmitted by the British Government to this Universty through the American Minister to Great Britain and the State Department at Washington, from which correspondence and the papers therewith as well as from the report of the Librarian it appears that the intrinsic value of the said gift, is enhanced by the marked courtesy with which it was made. Whereupon it was resolved

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby record their grateful thanks to the Government of Her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain for the very valuable contribution to the Library of the University made in November last consisting of Tow Hundred & fifty-eight volumes of the Publications of the Record Commission.

That this Board desires at the same time, to put on record their high appreciation of the very courteous manner in which they are informed the said gift was made.

That the Librarian of the University cause the said volumes to be placed together in a separate alcove in the Library conspicuously marked with the words "Donation by the Government of Great Britain", and that he cause each of the said volumes to be marked with a label bearing the same words.

That the Secretary of State of the United States be respectfully requested to cause a copy of these proceedings to be communicated to the proper Department of her Majesty's Government in token of the sentiments of this Board- and to that end that a copy thereof duly attested under the seal of the University be transmitted by the Rector to the said Secretary of State.

Resolved further That the thanks of this Board are due, and are hereby tendered to the Hon. Hamilton Fish, Secretary of State of the United States and to the American Legation at the Court of Great Britain for the kind interest, efficient aid and courtesy extended to this University in connection with the said donation. The Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 10 A. M.

To the Professor of Latin

$1000

To the Professor of Greek

1000

To the Professor of Modern Languages

1000

To the Professor of Mathematics

450

To the Professor of Applied Mathematics

800 M.B.$20

To the Professor of Natural Philosophy

900

To the Professor of Chemistry & Pharmacy which $500 is paid by the Miller Board

550 of

To the Professor of Medicine

1000

To the Professor of Physiology & Surgery

1000

To the Professor of Anatomy &c

1000

To the Professor of Moral Philosophy

1000

To the Professor of History & Literature

1000

To the Professor of Int1. & Const1. Law

100

To the Professor of Common & Stat Law

100

$10,900

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present, the Rector and the same members as on yesterday and in addition, Col. Campbell.

The Rector laid before the Board a letter from Prof. Charles S. Venable expressing his thanks for the kind manner in which the Board expressed their confidence in him as the Chief Executive Officer of the University and asking for reasons stated in the letter to be permitted to decline the office- which letter was ordered to be filed.

The Finance Committee submitted its report, which being considered was adopted as follows:

Resolved-

1\. That in view of the continued embarrassment of the finances of the University and the difficulties arising out of this fact- it is deemed best to avoid the adoption of any general rules of action in relation to salaries, at the present session of the Board.

2\. That without intending to establish any precedent for future action, the Board with a view to provide for the present emergency deem it expedient to fix the salaries of the Professors for the ensuing year as follows: viz-

Ordered

1\. That until the further order of the Board, the following be the stated salaries paid to the respective Professors, viz-

2\. That each professor be paid the full amount of fees of tuition paid on account of his chair.

3\. That if in any school or chair the aggregate emoluments from salary and fees be less than $2000 there shall be paid to the professors, from the general fund, for instruction of state students, and other non paying students such a sum as shall make his aggregate pecuniary emoluments up to the sum of $2000.

4\. That if the aggregate number of paying students shall decline below the number of the present session (1872-3) then in each school or chair affected by such decline, to an extent greater than if such decline were uniform in all the schools or chairs, there shall be paid to the professors thereof out of the general fund for instruction to state students and other non-paying students, such a sum as will make his emoluments equal to what they would be, if such decline were uniform in all the schools or chairs.

5\. No professor shall under any circumstances whatever, receive less than the sum of $1000 a year. And if by reason of any general disaster, such as the dispersion of the students early in any session by the breaking out of an epidemic, or other extraordinary misfortune to the University, the foregoing scheme of compensation is rendered inequitable, the Board reserves to itself the authority to make such special provision in such case as to it may seem just and right, and will be consistent with the general laws.

On motion the further consideration of the Report of the Finance Committee was postponed until tomorrow.

The Board then proceeded to consider the letter of Prof. Venable noted as filed, in a previous part of today's proceedings. It was thereupon

Resolved That the Board of Visitors recognize the sufficiency of the reasons given by Professor Venable for declining the office of Chairman of the Faculty.

The Board desires to express upon its records its earnest appreciation of the zeal, ability and success with which Professor Venable has administered the office.

On motion the Board adjouened to meet tomorrow at 10 A.M.

Estimate of Expenditures for the year ending June 1874.
-------------------------------------------------------

Salaries of 14 Professors

$10,400.00

Rent of 2 Professors (commutations)

600.00

Salary of assistant Professor

500.00

Salary of officers

3,600.00

Salary of adjunct Profes or (A & A Chy)

800.00

Advertising

600.00

Printing

140.00

Interest

6,500.00

Catalogue

400.00

Repairs & Improvements

2,000.00

Labour

1,200.00

Add for improvements & change ordered in the large room in rear of the Chemical lecture room

50.00

Library

200.00

Add for repairs in removal of water tanks

100.00

Contingent Expenses

1,250.00

Ice

200.00

Fuel estimated at

6,000.00

School of Nat. Ph.

100.00

School of Chemistry

150.00

School of Applied Math

30.00

Insurance

600.00

Gas

500.00

Diplomas

300.00

Infirmary

Matron

$480.00

Servant

135.00

Physicians

1500.00

Fuel

145.00

Gas

25.00

Ice

15.00

Repairs

40.00

Contingent

90.00

2,400.00

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday.

The Board proceeded, on motion to consider the Report of the Faculty, thereupon

1\. Resolved, That the Professor of Natural History & Agriculture be authorized to use the large room in the rear of the old chemical lecture room for his lectures and for the display of Specimens connected with his Department.

2\. Resolved, That the Professors of Greek be authorized to use the room heretofore assigned to the school of Moral Philosophy such arrangements to be made as will avoid any conflict in the use of the same between the two schools.

3\. Resolved That a diploma of graduation may be given in General Chemistry, in industrial Chemistry or in industrial & general Chemistry- the arrangement of degrees to correspond with that hitherto in use in the School of Modern Languages.

4\. Resolved, That a diploma of graduation may be given in analytical Chemistry and a certificate of proficiency in Agricultural Chemistry.

5\. Resolved, That the three preceding resolutions shall take effect as of the commencement of the session of 1872-3, and that diplomas and certificates of proficiency as therein provided for be awarded accordingly.

6\. Resolved, That a diploma of graduation may be given in Natural History and Agriculture- as in each of the schools of the University and a certificate of proficiency in Natural History when studied alone.

Resolved, That hereafter there be one assistant in the school of Applied Mathematics, with a salary of $500 who shall also give instruction in drawing, for which he shall receive from each paying student in the drawing class a fee of $10.

Ordered, That the Pavilion No. 9 heretofore occupied by Prof. McGuffey, be assigned to Professor Venable, and the Pavilion now occupied by Professor Venable be assigned to Professor Peters, with authority to the said Professors to make such different allotment from the foregoing, of the said Pavilions, between them, as they may agree upon.

Resolved That there shall be no curtailment of the appropriation for labor or repairs & improvements, but that the wages paid for an Overseer shall not exceed five hundred dollars.

The Committee on Grounds & Public Buildings submitted their Report which the Board proceeded to consider.

Resolved, That in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on Grounds & Public Buildings, the cowhouses & stables on the road to the Cemetary be removed and that the Executive Committee be directed to indicate the site where other such buildings may be erected by the Professors desiring them upon such terms as may be agreed upon between said Executive Committee and professors.

Resolved, In accordance with the report of the Committee on Grounds & Buildings it is ordered that the Procter proceed to remove the small building at the Eastern Entrance of the Grounds now occupied as a shoe shop, and that such removal be made before the 1st of October next.

Resolved, That the Chairman of the Faculty be requested to have the water tanks over the library inspected and take such steps as may be necessary for the certain protection of the books from injury by the overflow or leaking of these tanks and that it is hereby intended to put it in the discretion of the Chairman to repair or remove the tanks or cut off the water from the same, provided that no expense exceeding one hundred dollars shall be incurred without consultation with the Executive Committee.

On motion, ordered, that the Report of the Committee on Grounds & Public Buildings be received and recorded.

Resolved, That the Board have received with much gratification the information through the Committee on Public Buildings &c, that the paths which so seriously disfigure the lawn have been overcome, and that it is their earnest desire that the Superintendent shall use every expedient for the prevention of such paths in the entire grounds.

Resolved, That the attention of the Proctor is directed to the condition of Dawson Row as reported by the Committee on Public Buildings with instructions to make the repairs that may be necessary for their preservation out of the general appropriation for repairs & improvements but not to the neglect of more essential matters.

On motion the Board proceeded to the election of Chairman of the Faculty, which resulted in the unanimous election of Professor James F. Harrison, his term to commence on 4th July 1873.

Resolved, That Natural History i.e. Botany & Zoology, be replaced amongst the requirements for the degree of Bachelor of Science.

Resolved, That authority is granted for the establishment of a practical Laboratory class in Pharmacy and that a Certificate of proficiency, may be granted to students passing an approved examination in such Laboratory class & upon the regular course of Lectures upon this subject; and that the fee for such Laboratory course & Lectures be the same as that now charged to Medical students working in said Laboratory.

Resolved, That the Rector be requested to confer with the Miller Board in reference to the recommendations of the Faculty in regard to an appropriation for the working Laboratory and Scholarships.

Resolved, that the following appropriations be made for the ensuing year, viz

Resolved, That all students over 21 years of age and such students, under that age as may receive the permission of the Faculty may reside outside the University, provided that upon such students there be changed pro-rata the rents of all rooms left unoccupied within the University itself; Such assessment not to exceed to any student the ordinary amount of room rent.

Resolved, That the following students who have been prevented from standing the examinations for graduation in their respective schools by sickness, be permitted to stand their examinations at such times as may be determined by their professors of the respective schools in which they have so failed to be examined. Mr. George Mason, in the school of law.

Mr. John R. Steele in the school of law.

Mr. Thos. E. Wilson in the Department of Medicine

Mr. Geo. A. Boone in the Department of Medicine

Report of the Committee on Grounds & Buildings.

To the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

The Committee to whom has been committed for consideration and report the condition of grounds & buildings beg leave to submit the following: That the usual inspection indicates the great need for repairs throughout the entire University property- the buildings are suffering in many cases to decay, and in some to ruin whilst the grounds themselves present appearance that does not impress us and cannot impress the public favorably. We would renew the suggestions continued in report of the Comee for June meeting 1872 that some means should be devised and steps taken to repair until it is made water proof the Terrace around the Lawn. The brick walks under the Terrace will evidence to the most casual observer dampness & moisture which your committee fear may be prejudicial to health; and are admonished by the few cases of Typhoid Fever to which attention has been called in the annual report of the Faculty, that no pains should be spared or reasonable outlay of money withheld that may be conducive to the health of the University. Some of the houses on what is known as Dawson's Row and to which the attention of the Comee was called present evidences of dilapidation and neglect which should have been remedied- for example one & possibly more of these houses where false or Dummy windows were intended by the architect and so left rough & uncouth for blinds or shutters, still remain so & detract greatly from the symetry \[sic\] & appearance of the building. The steps made of common pine & so easily replaced are in several cases decayed & in two entirely rotten. There are very many repairs which your comtee could suggest and to which attention could be profitably directed: but the embarrassments of the University and the small & comparatively inadequate sum that can be appropriated for this purpose render it useless in this report. Your Comtee however would call the special attention of the Board to the water tanks upon the rotunda building immediately above the Library. In consequence of some defect in original construction or in subsequent use or decay (neither of which it would seem has been remedied) The Books of the Library have been seriously injured from leakage of these tanks. The Librarian informed the Comtee that various efforts had been made to remedy the defects, but invariably without success; and as evidence exhibited to us many of the Books which had been permanently injured & in a few instances rendered unintelligable and worthless. Your Committee recommend an investigation of some competent engineer of these tanks and that provision be made for their thorough and effective repair or removal.

The paths & short cuts made promiscuously through the grounds are an eye sore; and should be broken up by some vigorous means if only vigorous ones will accomplish that end. They are unnecessary, unsightly and mar the general appearance of the grounds. The Comtee have been gratified at the partial success which seems to have followed the endeavours which they are informed have been repeatedly made to break up the paths especially the entire disappearance of them on the Lawn. But they insist that renewed exertions and endeavor accompanied with every kind of expedient shall be resorted to until they shall disappear entirely from every part of the ground & Lawn. Underbrush, bushes, saplings & dead limbs disfigure the trees & foliage in some cases & may be easily cut up & destroyed & should be done.

Your Comtee recommend the approval of the suggestion contained in the 6th item of the report of the Faculty- and that leave be granted the Professor of Natural History and Agriculture to use for purposes of Lectures, display of specimens, illustrations &c &c the large room in rear of the old Chemical lecture room and that the appropriation of $50 as suggested by the Faculty for repairs be audited and allowed. The Comtee also recommend for approval 7th item of said Report; and in as much as lectures of the two schools of Moral Philosophy & Greek are delivered, one in the morning & one in the evening that they both be permitted the use of the room heretofore used only for the Moral Philosophy class.

The consideration of the 12th item said report belongs perhaps strictly to the Finance Comtee yet this Committee deems it proper & pertinent for them at least to say, that the rooms & houses & property of the University could be less exposed to disfigurement and better preserved if these rooms & houses were in the possession of and under the control of the students; and that in this view the suggestions of the Faculty are entitled to consideration.

Your Committee further recommend the repair of the lightning rods upon the public Buildings & Professors houses as may be deemed necessary.

The attention of the Comtee has been called to a range of stables, cow houses &c in rear of Dawson's Row, lying immediately on the graveled walk to the University Cemetery- They are in horrible condition, seemed scarcely to be used for any purpose, still less that for which they are designed, the tops of some of them fallen in and in all unsightly and apparently useless. It is recommended that these stables be removed and the brick either sold or stored for use of the University.

The shed houses opposite the Infirmary used as stables were directed by Res- of last annual meeting to be removed by session 73-4-Reference is now made to these resolutions that the attention of the Superdt may be recalled to them and that they be strictly enforced.

Your Comtee have made some inspection of the Experimental Farm, Prof. Page in the report heretofore filed before the Board leaving exclusive reference to this Farm details its establishment with the difficulties which he has experienced in its advancement and development the past session 72-3 owing partially to a protracted drought; to his dependence upon irregular labor; to want of team &c. &c. The farm itself evidence to your Comtee that as yet it is in its infancy and needs persistent labor and attention if it is to become an ornament or of practical value to the University. There was nothing to indicate either high culture or thorough development in design or execution. The spot selected for this Farm seems to be unfortunate and altogether undesirable- the soil extremely poor and barren, in part very moist and easily overflowed until put in good heart and thorough drainage it is not probable the Experimental Farm will be of practical benefit to the University. This matter however is more directly connected with the Miller Board of Trustees and therefore your Comtee declines to make any suggestions to the Visitors or propose any Resolutions.

Your Comtee find scattered about the grounds and lawns of the University the objectionable Alantton Tree. We think these shd be removed and thoroughly extirpated. The grounds are will filled with handsome trees which are neither offensive in odour or prolific in progeny as the Alanttons, and no detriment could be done by this removeal.

Your Comtee have observed in the public entrance to the grounds from Charlottesville side and immediately at the Post Office & directly visible from the R Rd. a small wooden structure which detracts from the appearance of that portion of the grounds and would doubtless impress unfavorably a stranger visiting the University. It seems now to be used as a shoe shop. It is thought best to remove this shop at once and your Committee so recommend.

The usage which seems to have prevailed at the University for many years would seem to be justification sufficient for the recommendation that Yr. committee makes that the McGuffey pavilion be assigned Prof. Venable. This usage together with the reasons assigned by Prof. Venable in his communication upon this subject to the Board, and a like Communication of Prof. Peters herewith filed as an Exhibit (A) waiving his application heretofore made, have removed all difficulties out of the way of the Comtee and they therefore approve the application of Prof. Venable that the McGuffey Pavilion be assigned him; that the one heretofore used by Prof. Venable be placed at the disposal of Prof. Peters; with the proviso that Prof. Venable and Peters may make any other disposal of these two pavilions among themselves that may be mutually satisfactory.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on Saturday last. Present, the same members as on Saturday last. The Board was called to order by the Rector and proceeded to business.

Resolved, The Board having been informed, by the Chairman of the Faculty, that satisfactory arrangements were made between the family of Professor McGuffey and Rev. T. D. Witherspoon in reference to the salary of the Professor of Moral Philosophy for the session of 1872-3 it is ordered that said stated salary be paid in full.

The Library Committee submitted its Report which on motion after being read was received and ordered to be recorded.

To the Rector & Board of Visitors of The University of Va.

The undersigned on behalf of the Committee on the Library begs leave to report that the condition of the books in the Library is as good as could be expected in view of the difficulties in the way of preserving them encountered by the Librarian Some of the books in a few shelves have been injured by the leakage or overflow from the water tanks above the Rotunda. Your Committee has been informed by the Chairman of the Faculty that this damage resulted chiefly from the over flow of the water from the tanks and that recently pipes have been so laid on the roof of the Rotunda as to prevent a recurrence of this overflow.

Your Committee would recommend that the sum in the hands of the Librarian collected for fines during the past year amounting to $74 be specially appropriated for binding.

Your Committee would further recommend that the Board do specially acknowledge by resolution the donation of 35 vols. of the London Philosophical Transactions made by J. R. McDaniel Irby Esqr. a student of the University of this session.

Next to the contribution made by the British Government to the Library this one made by Mr. Irby is probably the most valuable of the past years donations.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday.

The Committee on Apparatus submitted its Report which upon being read on Motion was received and ordered to be recorded.

To the Rector of the Board of Visitors of the University of Va.

The Committee on Apparatus respectfully report that they have made the best examination of the subjects submitted to them, which their limited time and information warranted. Professors Smith and Mallet have both complied with the laws of the University & returned to your Board full, and we presume, accurate inventories of apparatus belonging to the Philosophical cabinet of the University & to the schools of general, applied, anylitical and agricultural Chemistry, which are desired to be read as a part of this report. Your Committee feel constrained to state in general terms that the condition of all the departments examined, shows even to the uninitiated, not only that master minds control, but that material exactness prevails. It is hardly necessary to say that from Professors Smith & Mallet your Committee received courtesy & aid in their investigation which was as instructive as pleasant. Your Committee are pleased to say, that no special appropriations are asked for by either of these Professors, not because they are not needed, but because they appreciate the financial embarrassments of the University.

No formal meeting of the Board was held on this day.

The Board met at 9 1/2 A.M. Present the same members as heretofore except Messrs. Walton & Carrington.

1\. On motion Resolved, That a class of Practical Physics be established in the School of Natural Philosophy and that such class be formed whenever at least six students shall signify their desire to attend it

2\. The Faculty is empowered to award a diploma of graduation to such student therein as shall exhibit distinguished proficiency in the exercises and examinations in such class.

3\. The course in such class will embrace the study of the construction, management, preservation and practical use of Physical Apparatus; the use of instruments of precision the conduct of experiments; and such other appropriate subjects as the Professor of Natural Philosophy shall prescribe.

4\. The fee for instruction in such class shall be one hundred dollars, to be paid by each student who shall attend six days in the week, and fifty dollars for such as attend three days in the week- such fees to include all charges for materials used-but not to include charges for damages done to apparatus.

Ordered that the Board Stand adjourned until the next regular annual meeting in June 1874.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on the 23d of September last.

Present- R. G. H. Kean, Rector, E. B. Montague, Moses Walton, Thomas Smith, & Micajah Woods.

The Rector appointed the following Committees. Finance Com. Mr. Walton, Col. Campbell, & Maj. Carrington Committee on Grounds & Buildings Judge Smith, Col. Berkeley Committee on Apparatus Col. Montague, Mr. Baker Committee on Library Mr. Woods, Mr. Baker.

The Rector laid before the Board the following communications,

1\. The Report of the Faculty

2\. The Report of the Librarian,

3\. The Report of the Proctor and Superintendent, all of which were reserved for future consideration.

Resolved that B. Johnson Barbour Esq. be requested to prepare the proceedings on the occasion of the inauguration of the Jefferson Statue, and to have the same and the address of Hugh Blair Grigsby at the time, published, for the use of the University provided the cost shall not exceed the unexpended balance of the appropriation for the erection of said statue.

The Chairman of the Executive Committee made a verbal report of the transaction of said Comee since the last meeting of the Board, - as follows-

1\. That the General Assembly had been applied to, for, and had passed an act authorizing the appointment of a Conservator of the Peace at the University- Acts 1872-3 Ch. 11.

2\. That in consequence of the movement made by the Society of Alumni, the Comee regarding it as injudicious to have two competing agencies in the field, have taken no action under the resolution of the last meeting in respect to the appointment of an agent to solicit endowments.

3\. That the General Assembly has passed the profered Act to encourage donations to the University. See Acts 1872-3 ch 121

4\. That the Comee had found it necessary to authorize the appropriation for Gas, to be exceeded by a sum not exceeding $75.

5\. That application had been made to the Genl. Assembly for the passage of an act looking to a connection between the University and the Public Free School System as indicated on page 364 of this Record, \[p. 319 typed copy\], but in consequence of the development of very unlooked-for opposition in the House of Delegates the proposition was withdrawn.

6\. That the Comee had at the instance of the Faculty, authorized the expenditure of $150 in advertizing during the months of May & June, as authorized by the Board.

7\. That the illness & death of Dr. Wm. H. McGuffey had rendered necessary some arrangements for completing the term of instruction, and conducting the Examinations in the School of Moral Philosophy for the remainder of the session, and this had been done, by the Faculty with the approval of the Comee through an arrangement between the family of Dr. McGuffey and D.T.D. Witherspoon in a manner reported to be highly satisdactory.

8\. That Prof. L. Boeck having been appointed a Commissioner to the Vienna Exposition by the U. S. Government, the Comee had given him leave to absent himself after the 7th June, 1873, for the residue of the present session, the examinations in his class having been completed and arrangments made for continuting the instruction of the class, to the end of the session.

At a regular annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Va held at their office in the said University on the 25th day of June in the year Eighteen hundred & seventy-three.

The Rector laid before the Board the correspondence between him & the Hon. Hamilton Fish, Secretary of State of the United States in respect to the gift to the Library of this University by the Government of Great Britain of certain publications of the Record Office consisting of Two hundred and fifty-eight volumes transmitted by the British Government to this Universty through the American Minister to Great Britain and the State Department at Washington, from which correspondence and the papers therewith as well as from the report of the Librarian it appears that the intrinsic value of the said gift, is enhanced by the marked courtesy with which it was made. Whereupon it was resolved

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby record their grateful thanks to the Government of Her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain for the very valuable contribution to the Library of the University made in November last consisting of Tow Hundred & fifty-eight volumes of the Publications of the Record Commission.

That this Board desires at the same time, to put on record their high appreciation of the very courteous manner in which they are informed the said gift was made.

That the Librarian of the University cause the said volumes to be placed together in a separate alcove in the Library conspicuously marked with the words "Donation by the Government of Great Britain", and that he cause each of the said volumes to be marked with a label bearing the same words.

That the Secretary of State of the United States be respectfully requested to cause a copy of these proceedings to be communicated to the proper Department of her Majesty's Government in token of the sentiments of this Board- and to that end that a copy thereof duly attested under the seal of the University be transmitted by the Rector to the said Secretary of State.

Resolved further That the thanks of this Board are due, and are hereby tendered to the Hon. Hamilton Fish, Secretary of State of the United States and to the American Legation at the Court of Great Britain for the kind interest, efficient aid and courtesy extended to this University in connection with the said donation. The Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 10 A. M.

To the Professor of Latin

$1000

To the Professor of Greek

1000

To the Professor of Modern Languages

1000

To the Professor of Mathematics

450

To the Professor of Applied Mathematics

800 M.B.$20

To the Professor of Natural Philosophy

900

To the Professor of Chemistry & Pharmacy which $500 is paid by the Miller Board

550 of

To the Professor of Medicine

1000

To the Professor of Physiology & Surgery

1000

To the Professor of Anatomy &c

1000

To the Professor of Moral Philosophy

1000

To the Professor of History & Literature

1000

To the Professor of Int1. & Const1. Law

100

To the Professor of Common & Stat Law

100

$10,900

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present, the Rector and the same members as on yesterday and in addition, Col. Campbell.

The Rector laid before the Board a letter from Prof. Charles S. Venable expressing his thanks for the kind manner in which the Board expressed their confidence in him as the Chief Executive Officer of the University and asking for reasons stated in the letter to be permitted to decline the office- which letter was ordered to be filed.

The Finance Committee submitted its report, which being considered was adopted as follows:

Resolved-

1\. That in view of the continued embarrassment of the finances of the University and the difficulties arising out of this fact- it is deemed best to avoid the adoption of any general rules of action in relation to salaries, at the present session of the Board.

2\. That without intending to establish any precedent for future action, the Board with a view to provide for the present emergency deem it expedient to fix the salaries of the Professors for the ensuing year as follows: viz-

Ordered

1\. That until the further order of the Board, the following be the stated salaries paid to the respective Professors, viz-

2\. That each professor be paid the full amount of fees of tuition paid on account of his chair.

3\. That if in any school or chair the aggregate emoluments from salary and fees be less than $2000 there shall be paid to the professors, from the general fund, for instruction of state students, and other non paying students such a sum as shall make his aggregate pecuniary emoluments up to the sum of $2000.

4\. That if the aggregate number of paying students shall decline below the number of the present session (1872-3) then in each school or chair affected by such decline, to an extent greater than if such decline were uniform in all the schools or chairs, there shall be paid to the professors thereof out of the general fund for instruction to state students and other non-paying students, such a sum as will make his emoluments equal to what they would be, if such decline were uniform in all the schools or chairs.

5\. No professor shall under any circumstances whatever, receive less than the sum of $1000 a year. And if by reason of any general disaster, such as the dispersion of the students early in any session by the breaking out of an epidemic, or other extraordinary misfortune to the University, the foregoing scheme of compensation is rendered inequitable, the Board reserves to itself the authority to make such special provision in such case as to it may seem just and right, and will be consistent with the general laws.

On motion the further consideration of the Report of the Finance Committee was postponed until tomorrow.

The Board then proceeded to consider the letter of Prof. Venable noted as filed, in a previous part of today's proceedings. It was thereupon

Resolved That the Board of Visitors recognize the sufficiency of the reasons given by Professor Venable for declining the office of Chairman of the Faculty.

The Board desires to express upon its records its earnest appreciation of the zeal, ability and success with which Professor Venable has administered the office.

On motion the Board adjouened to meet tomorrow at 10 A.M.

Estimate of Expenditures for the year ending June 1874.
-------------------------------------------------------

Salaries of 14 Professors

$10,400.00

Rent of 2 Professors (commutations)

600.00

Salary of assistant Professor

500.00

Salary of officers

3,600.00

Salary of adjunct Profes or (A & A Chy)

800.00

Advertising

600.00

Printing

140.00

Interest

6,500.00

Catalogue

400.00

Repairs & Improvements

2,000.00

Labour

1,200.00

Add for improvements & change ordered in the large room in rear of the Chemical lecture room

50.00

Library

200.00

Add for repairs in removal of water tanks

100.00

Contingent Expenses

1,250.00

Ice

200.00

Fuel estimated at

6,000.00

School of Nat. Ph.

100.00

School of Chemistry

150.00

School of Applied Math

30.00

Insurance

600.00

Gas

500.00

Diplomas

300.00

Infirmary

Matron

$480.00

Servant

135.00

Physicians

1500.00

Fuel

145.00

Gas

25.00

Ice

15.00

Repairs

40.00

Contingent

90.00

2,400.00

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday.

The Board proceeded, on motion to consider the Report of the Faculty, thereupon

1\. Resolved, That the Professor of Natural History & Agriculture be authorized to use the large room in the rear of the old chemical lecture room for his lectures and for the display of Specimens connected with his Department.

2\. Resolved, That the Professors of Greek be authorized to use the room heretofore assigned to the school of Moral Philosophy such arrangements to be made as will avoid any conflict in the use of the same between the two schools.

3\. Resolved That a diploma of graduation may be given in General Chemistry, in industrial Chemistry or in industrial & general Chemistry- the arrangement of degrees to correspond with that hitherto in use in the School of Modern Languages.

4\. Resolved, That a diploma of graduation may be given in analytical Chemistry and a certificate of proficiency in Agricultural Chemistry.

5\. Resolved, That the three preceding resolutions shall take effect as of the commencement of the session of 1872-3, and that diplomas and certificates of proficiency as therein provided for be awarded accordingly.

6\. Resolved, That a diploma of graduation may be given in Natural History and Agriculture- as in each of the schools of the University and a certificate of proficiency in Natural History when studied alone.

Resolved, That hereafter there be one assistant in the school of Applied Mathematics, with a salary of $500 who shall also give instruction in drawing, for which he shall receive from each paying student in the drawing class a fee of $10.

Ordered, That the Pavilion No. 9 heretofore occupied by Prof. McGuffey, be assigned to Professor Venable, and the Pavilion now occupied by Professor Venable be assigned to Professor Peters, with authority to the said Professors to make such different allotment from the foregoing, of the said Pavilions, between them, as they may agree upon.

Resolved That there shall be no curtailment of the appropriation for labor or repairs & improvements, but that the wages paid for an Overseer shall not exceed five hundred dollars.

The Committee on Grounds & Public Buildings submitted their Report which the Board proceeded to consider.

Resolved, That in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on Grounds & Public Buildings, the cowhouses & stables on the road to the Cemetary be removed and that the Executive Committee be directed to indicate the site where other such buildings may be erected by the Professors desiring them upon such terms as may be agreed upon between said Executive Committee and professors.

Resolved, In accordance with the report of the Committee on Grounds & Buildings it is ordered that the Procter proceed to remove the small building at the Eastern Entrance of the Grounds now occupied as a shoe shop, and that such removal be made before the 1st of October next.

Resolved, That the Chairman of the Faculty be requested to have the water tanks over the library inspected and take such steps as may be necessary for the certain protection of the books from injury by the overflow or leaking of these tanks and that it is hereby intended to put it in the discretion of the Chairman to repair or remove the tanks or cut off the water from the same, provided that no expense exceeding one hundred dollars shall be incurred without consultation with the Executive Committee.

On motion, ordered, that the Report of the Committee on Grounds & Public Buildings be received and recorded.

Resolved, That the Board have received with much gratification the information through the Committee on Public Buildings &c, that the paths which so seriously disfigure the lawn have been overcome, and that it is their earnest desire that the Superintendent shall use every expedient for the prevention of such paths in the entire grounds.

Resolved, That the attention of the Proctor is directed to the condition of Dawson Row as reported by the Committee on Public Buildings with instructions to make the repairs that may be necessary for their preservation out of the general appropriation for repairs & improvements but not to the neglect of more essential matters.

On motion the Board proceeded to the election of Chairman of the Faculty, which resulted in the unanimous election of Professor James F. Harrison, his term to commence on 4th July 1873.

Resolved, That Natural History i.e. Botany & Zoology, be replaced amongst the requirements for the degree of Bachelor of Science.

Resolved, That authority is granted for the establishment of a practical Laboratory class in Pharmacy and that a Certificate of proficiency, may be granted to students passing an approved examination in such Laboratory class & upon the regular course of Lectures upon this subject; and that the fee for such Laboratory course & Lectures be the same as that now charged to Medical students working in said Laboratory.

Resolved, That the Rector be requested to confer with the Miller Board in reference to the recommendations of the Faculty in regard to an appropriation for the working Laboratory and Scholarships.

Resolved, that the following appropriations be made for the ensuing year, viz

Resolved, That all students over 21 years of age and such students, under that age as may receive the permission of the Faculty may reside outside the University, provided that upon such students there be changed pro-rata the rents of all rooms left unoccupied within the University itself; Such assessment not to exceed to any student the ordinary amount of room rent.

Resolved, That the following students who have been prevented from standing the examinations for graduation in their respective schools by sickness, be permitted to stand their examinations at such times as may be determined by their professors of the respective schools in which they have so failed to be examined. Mr. George Mason, in the school of law.

Mr. John R. Steele in the school of law.

Mr. Thos. E. Wilson in the Department of Medicine

Mr. Geo. A. Boone in the Department of Medicine

Report of the Committee on Grounds & Buildings.

To the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

The Committee to whom has been committed for consideration and report the condition of grounds & buildings beg leave to submit the following: That the usual inspection indicates the great need for repairs throughout the entire University property- the buildings are suffering in many cases to decay, and in some to ruin whilst the grounds themselves present appearance that does not impress us and cannot impress the public favorably. We would renew the suggestions continued in report of the Comee for June meeting 1872 that some means should be devised and steps taken to repair until it is made water proof the Terrace around the Lawn. The brick walks under the Terrace will evidence to the most casual observer dampness & moisture which your committee fear may be prejudicial to health; and are admonished by the few cases of Typhoid Fever to which attention has been called in the annual report of the Faculty, that no pains should be spared or reasonable outlay of money withheld that may be conducive to the health of the University. Some of the houses on what is known as Dawson's Row and to which the attention of the Comee was called present evidences of dilapidation and neglect which should have been remedied- for example one & possibly more of these houses where false or Dummy windows were intended by the architect and so left rough & uncouth for blinds or shutters, still remain so & detract greatly from the symetry \[sic\] & appearance of the building. The steps made of common pine & so easily replaced are in several cases decayed & in two entirely rotten. There are very many repairs which your comtee could suggest and to which attention could be profitably directed: but the embarrassments of the University and the small & comparatively inadequate sum that can be appropriated for this purpose render it useless in this report. Your Comtee however would call the special attention of the Board to the water tanks upon the rotunda building immediately above the Library. In consequence of some defect in original construction or in subsequent use or decay (neither of which it would seem has been remedied) The Books of the Library have been seriously injured from leakage of these tanks. The Librarian informed the Comtee that various efforts had been made to remedy the defects, but invariably without success; and as evidence exhibited to us many of the Books which had been permanently injured & in a few instances rendered unintelligable and worthless. Your Committee recommend an investigation of some competent engineer of these tanks and that provision be made for their thorough and effective repair or removal.

The paths & short cuts made promiscuously through the grounds are an eye sore; and should be broken up by some vigorous means if only vigorous ones will accomplish that end. They are unnecessary, unsightly and mar the general appearance of the grounds. The Comtee have been gratified at the partial success which seems to have followed the endeavours which they are informed have been repeatedly made to break up the paths especially the entire disappearance of them on the Lawn. But they insist that renewed exertions and endeavor accompanied with every kind of expedient shall be resorted to until they shall disappear entirely from every part of the ground & Lawn. Underbrush, bushes, saplings & dead limbs disfigure the trees & foliage in some cases & may be easily cut up & destroyed & should be done.

Your Comtee recommend the approval of the suggestion contained in the 6th item of the report of the Faculty- and that leave be granted the Professor of Natural History and Agriculture to use for purposes of Lectures, display of specimens, illustrations &c &c the large room in rear of the old Chemical lecture room and that the appropriation of $50 as suggested by the Faculty for repairs be audited and allowed. The Comtee also recommend for approval 7th item of said Report; and in as much as lectures of the two schools of Moral Philosophy & Greek are delivered, one in the morning & one in the evening that they both be permitted the use of the room heretofore used only for the Moral Philosophy class.

The consideration of the 12th item said report belongs perhaps strictly to the Finance Comtee yet this Committee deems it proper & pertinent for them at least to say, that the rooms & houses & property of the University could be less exposed to disfigurement and better preserved if these rooms & houses were in the possession of and under the control of the students; and that in this view the suggestions of the Faculty are entitled to consideration.

Your Committee further recommend the repair of the lightning rods upon the public Buildings & Professors houses as may be deemed necessary.

The attention of the Comtee has been called to a range of stables, cow houses &c in rear of Dawson's Row, lying immediately on the graveled walk to the University Cemetery- They are in horrible condition, seemed scarcely to be used for any purpose, still less that for which they are designed, the tops of some of them fallen in and in all unsightly and apparently useless. It is recommended that these stables be removed and the brick either sold or stored for use of the University.

The shed houses opposite the Infirmary used as stables were directed by Res- of last annual meeting to be removed by session 73-4-Reference is now made to these resolutions that the attention of the Superdt may be recalled to them and that they be strictly enforced.

Your Comtee have made some inspection of the Experimental Farm, Prof. Page in the report heretofore filed before the Board leaving exclusive reference to this Farm details its establishment with the difficulties which he has experienced in its advancement and development the past session 72-3 owing partially to a protracted drought; to his dependence upon irregular labor; to want of team &c. &c. The farm itself evidence to your Comtee that as yet it is in its infancy and needs persistent labor and attention if it is to become an ornament or of practical value to the University. There was nothing to indicate either high culture or thorough development in design or execution. The spot selected for this Farm seems to be unfortunate and altogether undesirable- the soil extremely poor and barren, in part very moist and easily overflowed until put in good heart and thorough drainage it is not probable the Experimental Farm will be of practical benefit to the University. This matter however is more directly connected with the Miller Board of Trustees and therefore your Comtee declines to make any suggestions to the Visitors or propose any Resolutions.

Your Comtee find scattered about the grounds and lawns of the University the objectionable Alantton Tree. We think these shd be removed and thoroughly extirpated. The grounds are will filled with handsome trees which are neither offensive in odour or prolific in progeny as the Alanttons, and no detriment could be done by this removeal.

Your Comtee have observed in the public entrance to the grounds from Charlottesville side and immediately at the Post Office & directly visible from the R Rd. a small wooden structure which detracts from the appearance of that portion of the grounds and would doubtless impress unfavorably a stranger visiting the University. It seems now to be used as a shoe shop. It is thought best to remove this shop at once and your Committee so recommend.

The usage which seems to have prevailed at the University for many years would seem to be justification sufficient for the recommendation that Yr. committee makes that the McGuffey pavilion be assigned Prof. Venable. This usage together with the reasons assigned by Prof. Venable in his communication upon this subject to the Board, and a like Communication of Prof. Peters herewith filed as an Exhibit (A) waiving his application heretofore made, have removed all difficulties out of the way of the Comtee and they therefore approve the application of Prof. Venable that the McGuffey Pavilion be assigned him; that the one heretofore used by Prof. Venable be placed at the disposal of Prof. Peters; with the proviso that Prof. Venable and Peters may make any other disposal of these two pavilions among themselves that may be mutually satisfactory.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on Saturday last. Present, the same members as on Saturday last. The Board was called to order by the Rector and proceeded to business.

Resolved, The Board having been informed, by the Chairman of the Faculty, that satisfactory arrangements were made between the family of Professor McGuffey and Rev. T. D. Witherspoon in reference to the salary of the Professor of Moral Philosophy for the session of 1872-3 it is ordered that said stated salary be paid in full.

The Library Committee submitted its Report which on motion after being read was received and ordered to be recorded.

To the Rector & Board of Visitors of The University of Va.

The undersigned on behalf of the Committee on the Library begs leave to report that the condition of the books in the Library is as good as could be expected in view of the difficulties in the way of preserving them encountered by the Librarian Some of the books in a few shelves have been injured by the leakage or overflow from the water tanks above the Rotunda. Your Committee has been informed by the Chairman of the Faculty that this damage resulted chiefly from the over flow of the water from the tanks and that recently pipes have been so laid on the roof of the Rotunda as to prevent a recurrence of this overflow.

Your Committee would recommend that the sum in the hands of the Librarian collected for fines during the past year amounting to $74 be specially appropriated for binding.

Your Committee would further recommend that the Board do specially acknowledge by resolution the donation of 35 vols. of the London Philosophical Transactions made by J. R. McDaniel Irby Esqr. a student of the University of this session.

Next to the contribution made by the British Government to the Library this one made by Mr. Irby is probably the most valuable of the past years donations.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday.

The Committee on Apparatus submitted its Report which upon being read on Motion was received and ordered to be recorded.

To the Rector of the Board of Visitors of the University of Va.

The Committee on Apparatus respectfully report that they have made the best examination of the subjects submitted to them, which their limited time and information warranted. Professors Smith and Mallet have both complied with the laws of the University & returned to your Board full, and we presume, accurate inventories of apparatus belonging to the Philosophical cabinet of the University & to the schools of general, applied, anylitical and agricultural Chemistry, which are desired to be read as a part of this report. Your Committee feel constrained to state in general terms that the condition of all the departments examined, shows even to the uninitiated, not only that master minds control, but that material exactness prevails. It is hardly necessary to say that from Professors Smith & Mallet your Committee received courtesy & aid in their investigation which was as instructive as pleasant. Your Committee are pleased to say, that no special appropriations are asked for by either of these Professors, not because they are not needed, but because they appreciate the financial embarrassments of the University.

No formal meeting of the Board was held on this day.

The Board met at 9 1/2 A.M. Present the same members as heretofore except Messrs. Walton & Carrington.

1\. On motion Resolved, That a class of Practical Physics be established in the School of Natural Philosophy and that such class be formed whenever at least six students shall signify their desire to attend it

2\. The Faculty is empowered to award a diploma of graduation to such student therein as shall exhibit distinguished proficiency in the exercises and examinations in such class.

3\. The course in such class will embrace the study of the construction, management, preservation and practical use of Physical Apparatus; the use of instruments of precision the conduct of experiments; and such other appropriate subjects as the Professor of Natural Philosophy shall prescribe.

4\. The fee for instruction in such class shall be one hundred dollars, to be paid by each student who shall attend six days in the week, and fifty dollars for such as attend three days in the week- such fees to include all charges for materials used-but not to include charges for damages done to apparatus.

Ordered that the Board Stand adjourned until the next regular annual meeting in June 1874.