Board of Visitors minutes (1877) June 25, 1877
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 25, 1877

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

32 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

The building for the Museum of Natural History is now completed and was received by the Architect about the 1st of June. The donor through Prof. Ward notified us in August last that he would add to his donation a sum sufficient to complete the building in the style of the original design and intimated a wish that the Architect and Mr. Ward should be consulted. Early in August Dr. Randolph of this Committee and the Proctor, Major Peyton, met Messrs Ward & Thomas the Architect in Baltimore and succeeded in making a contract with Messrs West & Carroll, the Contractors who made the only additions to contract

1,152.95

Brick (made here)

4,158.55

Architect

940.00

Foundation

353.48

One adjunct Professor of Applied Chemistry

$ 800.00

Two assistant Professors

Anatomy

800.00

Engineering

500.00

Officers salaries

4,180.00

Fees One adjunct Professor Applied Chemistry

770.00

One Asst Professor of Engg & Drawing

75.00

Advertising for law school

175.00

General advertising

600.00

Printing

140.00

Catalogue

500.00

Repairs & Improvements

2,750.00

Fee to T. D. Ranson, Atty

250.00

Enlarging Mess Hall

150.00

Labour

1,200.00

Contingent Expenses

1,250.00

Interest on Debt

7,500.00

Sinking fund

1,000.00

Library

300.00

Fuel

500.00

Insurance

650.00

Diplomas

350;00

Apparatus & Material (Chemistry)

150.00

Natural Philosophy

150.00

Gas

500.00

Engineering

50.00

Commutation of rents

900.00

Special

Experimental Farm

1,000.00

Appropriation

Int on bonds

800.00

Miller Fund

Printing

75.00

$28,065.00

Deficit on account of cases of Museum

$ 1,300.00

$29,365.00

Income for year ending 31 May 1878

Annuity from the state

$30,000.00

Rents

15,320.00

Diplomas

1,210.00

Fees

Law 5570

On basis

Appl Chem 770

of 325

Drawing 75

students

Other

schools 10855

17,270.00

Interest on bond- Corcoran fund

3,000.00

Miller fund

3,975.00

$70,775.00

Deduct expenses as above

29,365.00

Bal. for distribution

$41,410.00

To Corcoran School of History & Literature and of Moral Philosophy, being Professors' salaries from Corcoran fund

$ 3,000.00

Salary of two professors named above

1,000.00

Salary of 12 Professors & 1 adjunct Prof. at 2,000

26,000.00

30,000.00

Bal brought down

41,410.00

SURPLUS

$11,410.00

This surplus divided among 14 Professors & one adjunct professor gives to each

$ 760.66

to which by adding salary

2000.00

Gives to each Professor

$2760.66

At the annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia held at the University on the 25th day of June 1877- Present- Mr. Stuart, Rector, and Messrs Bocock, Conrad, Goode, Gilmore, Hart, Randolph & Whitehead.

The Rector called the Board to order.

Ordered, that the Secretary inform the Chairman of the Faculty that this Board is organized and ready to receive any Communications that he may have to present.

The Secretary having communicated this information to the Chairman of the Faculty, Dr. Harrison, he appeared before the Board and presented his annual report accompanied with the report of the Faculty, the Librarian's report, the Proctor's report, Commr Gordon's report, and the reports of Prof. Mallet & Page through this Board to the Miller Board.

1\. On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock.

University of Va.

June 26th 1877

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday.

Dr. W. C. N. Randolph, on behalf of the Executive Committee presented the annual report of the Executive Committee accompanied by the Resolutions adopted by the Executive Committee of the Board, December, 1876- which on motion were read, approved and adopted and ordered to be spread upon the minutes.

Resolved- That a special Committee of three be appointed to report what action of this Board is appropriate in view of the donation of W. W. Corcoran, Esqr. to the University of Virginia.

Committee appointed by the Rector under the foregoing resolution: Messrs Hart, Bocock and Goode.

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Board of Visitors be and he is hereby required, under the direction of the Rector or resident member of the Executive Committee, to prepare and have ready for said Board at every annual meeting a Docket, showing the items of business to be considered at said meeting and the order in which it is to be considered.

On motion, the annual report of the Faculty, presented on yesterday, was taken up and was read to the Board by the Rector-Whereupon on motion, 1. Resolved, that so much of the Report of the Faculty, and the papers accompanying the same, as related to the finances of the University, to fixing the amount of Professors' salaries and determining the mode of paying the same; & to allowing Virginia students reaching the age of Eighteen, during the session and before the first of March, and who comply with the requirements of the Act of       day of            a drawback on the tuition fees previously paid by them be referred to the Committee on Finance.

2\. That so much thereof, as refers to the subject of the Grounds & Buildings of the University, the renting of rooms, enlarging Mess Halls, &c together with the letter of Professor Price this day received, asking that a provision be made for building porches to the house occupied by him be referred to the Committee on Crounds & Buildings.

3\. That so much thereof as relates to the subject of the Library, together with the letter of Mr. Seddons, this day received, asking compensation for his labour and trouble in preparing a Catalogue of the books &c be referred to the Committee on the Library.

4\. That so much thereof as refers to the subject of Apparatms, be referred to the Committee on Apparatus- and

5\. That so much thereof as recommends a formal opening of the Museum of Natural History, be referred to the Executive Committee for its action.

Resolved, that the report of Thomas D. Ranson, Esqr. to the Board in relation to the claim of the University under the will of Thomas Johnston decd., be referred to the Finance Committee.

Resolved, That the letter of Prof. Ward of date the 8th inst. to the Rector be referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings.

Resolved, that a Committee of three be appointed to report whether or not is desirable to require a report to the Board of Visitors from each Professor of the operation &c of his school during the year and in case they should decide that such reports are necessary that they should indicate the form of report to be required.

The Rector appointed the following as the Committee under the foregoing resolution- Messrs Randolph, Hart and Whitehead.

As Chairman of the Executive Committee I have the honor to make the following report of the Executive Committee for the past year.

bid for the whole work in June. The whole cost as contracted for was $28,043.00 this did not include the brick made here $4,158.55, the cost of the steps (which were more expensive because from the character of the ground more steps were required) nor the elevator and an increased thickening of the side walls was deemed necessary as the building progressed. These additional expenses would have required us to raise from the funds of the University from 1800 to 2000 dollars; but the donor of the fund with characteristic liberality as he ascertained that there was to be an additional cost (which information he got from Mr. Ward, we not being privy to his intention) sent a check for the amount.

The amount to be paid for Prof. Ward for cases, which was to be raised from the sale of bonds of the University endorsed by the Trustees of the Miller Fund, the Miller Trustees to pay interest and sinking fund has not been yet raised; the bonds have been placed in the hands of a Broker for sale who reports that he apprehends no difficulty in their sale. The two thousand dollars to pay for mounting &c to be raised by subscription from the Society of the Alumni has been pledged and most of it collected, it will all be forthcoming when needed. A farther sum of $1300 will be needed to complete the payment of freight &c. This amount will have to be raised yet. I have to ask action on this matter at this meeting as the money will be needed in the next two months. We owe the excellent character of the work in a great measure to the capacity and energy of our Superintendent of grounds & buildings, Major Peyton. We authorized Dr. Page to lease the Parsonage to a lady who desired to send a son to College. Dr. Page having leased the house for his own use from the Chaplain.

It having been referred to this Committee to remit the Infirmary to the management of the physicians or not as they deemed best, directed that they should have full charge of it and have every reason to suppose that it has been made self sustaining.

By resolution we also directed the Proctor to have such repairs as were necessary to be made to the house occupied by Mr. Price.

By resolution we also directed the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings to connect the downfall with Sewers, under the direction of the Board of health provided the cost did not exceed $250.

During the Summer, Mr. W. W. Corcoran of Washington, D. C. donated $5000 to the Library of the University , a thousand to be paid each year. By resolution we directed the Proctor to receipt for the amount, keep it as a special fund and to exceed it alone under the direction of the Faculty in the purchase of books. That books thus procured shall be kept in separate sections and labelled "Corcoran donations".

In November of 1876 Mr. Corcoran made another donation of $50,000 par, in State Bonds to be used to endow professorships. On consultation with the Faculty- Your Committee determined to divide the interest between the schools of History & Literature and Moral Philosophy. And directed that the two schools should be called "Corcoran School of History & Literature" and "Corcoran School of Moral Philosophy". This action should be approved or disapproved by the Board of Visitors and thus confirmed or not as may be deemed best.

The sum of $200 was appropriated by Your Committee to pay the salary of the Assistant Librarian, appointed under your resolution by the Faculty. The Board of Health reported drains necessary for the Lawn, the Cellars of pavillions and dormitories having been made damp by surface water. We directed an appropriation of $300 from the fund for improvements and repairs to that purpose. Also a sum of fifty dollars from the same fund to repairs of the Infirmary. By resolution we directed that no sewers should be made or opened except by Order of the Board of Health.

Your Committee gave permission to Prof. Schele to absent himself from the University- a few days before the final day and not to return if he desired before the 1st October, he having stated that his wife's health required a sea voyage.

Resolutions adopted by the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia- December 1876 viz:

Resolved- 1. That the money given by Mr. W. W. Corcoran, of Washington, D. C. to the Library of the University of Virginia, be deposited with the Proctor as a special fund for the Library, to be expended under the direction of the Faculty alone, in the purchase of such books as may be deemed necessary to supply the needs of the institution in all of its departments.

Resolved- 2. That all books thus procured shall be placed in a separate section of the Library, and shall be labelled and known as "the Corcoran Donation to the Library of the University of Virginia".

Resolved- 3. That the interest accruing January 1st and July 1st 1877, on the bonds given to the University of Virginia by W. W. Corcoran, Esqr of Washington, D. C. be paid to the Proctor of the University, on requisition made by him upon the First Auditor of the State, and endorsed by the Chairman of the Faculty.

Resolved- 4. Further, that the interest thus drawn by the Proctor shall be paid by the Proctor, semi-annually in equal portions, to the Professors of the Schools of History and Literature and of Moral Philosophy respectively, in addition to such sums from, the general funds of the University as shall make the annual salary of each of the Professors of the above mentioned schools two thousand dollars- besides what each one will be entitled to receive from a division of the general surplus of the receipts of the University.

Resolved- 5. That a sum of money equal in amount to the interest derived annually from the Corcoran bonds be appropriated and the same is hereby directed to be paid by the Proctor semiannually, out of the Funds of the University of Virginia to be divided equally among the thirteen (13) Professors of the Medical and Academical Schools.

Resolved- 6. That the Schools of History and Literature and of Moral Philosophy in the University of Virginia shall hereafter be named and known as "The Corcoran School of History and Literature" and "the Corcoran School of Moral Philosophy".

Resolved- 7. That the sum of $200.00 be appropriated and the same is hereby ordered to be paid by the Proctor out of the funds of the University of Virginia, as the annual salary of the Assistant Librarian appointed by the Faculty, to be paid in quarterly instalments.

Resolved- 8. That the foregoing resolutions numbered 3, 4, and 5 shall be in force until the next annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University; but shall then be subject to repeal, or to such modifications or changes as the Board may think proper to make in the same.

The above resolutions are hereby adopted.

Alex. H. H. Stuart,

Th. S. Bocock

W. C. N. Randolph

Ex-

Com.

Resolved, 1. That of the general appropriation for improvements and repairs a sum not to exceed three hundred dollars shall be expended by the Proctor under the direction of the Board of Health of the University of Virginia for the several purposes herein stated- viz: flushing the various sewers connected with the houses and dormitories; draining the lawn by the means of tubes or otherwise; and the same is hereby ordered.

Resolved, 2. That from the general appropriation for improvements and repairs a sum not to exceed fifty dollars shall be expended by the Proctor under the direction of the Infirmary Board, for repairs to the infirmary building; and the same is hereby ordered.

Resolved, 3. That in order to procure, as far as practicable, immunity from diseases caused by emanations from the sewers, no sewer or drain shall be made or opened exception by direction of the Board of Health.

Alex. H. H. Stuart

W. C. N. Randolph

T. S. Bocock

Present- Hon J. L. Marye

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock.

Jas. D. Jones Secretary

Alex. H. H. Stuart Rector

The Board met pursuant to adjournment. Present the same members as on yesterday.

The letter of the Chairman, enclosing the Annual Report of the Faculty having been read and considered, it was

1\. Resolved that this Board has heard with much pleasure, the statement contained in said letter that with few exceptions, the students have been orderly and studious during the last session and have shown a marked improvement in the observance of the Rules & Regulations of the University.

2\. Resolved, that this Board, approving the action of the Faculty in that regard, do hereby confirm their expulsion of J. W. Mountcastle, a student of the University during the last session.

Whereas there has been a long established rule in this Institution, that all elections of Professors shall in the beginning, be for one year only; And whereas in the election of Thomas R. Price, to the Chair of Greek, at the last annual meeting of this Board, it was not declared whether said election was designed to be permanent or temporary only.

Now therefore, to remove all doubt on the subject this Board doth resolved, that the said Thomas R. Price is hereby declared to be the permanent Professor of Greek in the University of Virginia.

Resolved- That the thanks of this Board are hereby tendered Prof. W. B. Rogers for the generous gift of one thousand dollars to the Alumnus fund for the establishment of the Natural History Museum.

That the Rector be requested to communicate to Prof. Rogers this resolution and to asure him of the profound satisfaction with which we accept this testimonial of interest on the part of one who was so long identified with the University, and who contributed so largely to give her the high place that she holds today among the Institutions of our country.

The Committee on the Miller Fund submitted the following report which was received and upon being read and considered on motion the same was approved and adopted. (Messrs Bocock, Randolph, & Whitehead voting in the negative.)

At a conference of the two committees appointed by the Miller Board and the Board of Visitors of the University, respectively, for the purpose of considering and reporting a plan for appropriating the Miller Fund in accordance with the provisions of the Trust.

Resolved, that at each of the annual meetings of the said Board the amounts to be appropriated by the Miller Board shall be first ascertained by that Board and the two Boards shall then upon conference prescribe the sums in which and the objects to which the said amount shall be applied, provided Both Boards can agree upon the sums & objects, but in the event of their disagreement the Miller Board then claims the right to prescribe the sums and the objects to which the said amount shall be applied.

The following report was submitted by the Committee of the Miller Fund which was received and upon being read and considered on motion the same was approved and adopted.

The joint committee appointed by the Board of Visitors of the University of Va. and by the Miller Board for the purpose of recommending what mode can be adopted by both Boards to obtain such information as may be necessary to enable both Boards to adopt measures to improve the efficiency of the school of Agriculture in the University of Va. beg to report that after conference they deem it wise to suggest to the Board the appointment of a Committee of two, one to be selected by each Board, whose duty it shall be to make such inquiry by correspondence or otherwise as to them may seem best and report the result of said inquiries to the said Boards at their annual meeting in June next. And they recommend that such sum as may be necessary be appropriated by the Miller Board to defray the expenses of the said committee.

It having been communicated to this Board by the secretary of the Miller Board that that Board had also approved and adopted the foregoing report on motion Dr. W. C. N. Randolph was chosen to represent this Board on the committee of two provided for in said resolution.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morining at 10 o'clock.

Jas. D. Jones Secretary

Alex. H. H. Stuart Rector

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday.

The Committees on Apparatus, Grounds & Buildings, the Library and Corcorans Donations, respectively submitted their reports which were received and on being read and considered were severally approved and adopted and ordered to be spread upon the minutes.

On motion resolved, that, the Executive Committee be authorized to consider the request of Prof. Smith for the lecture room now occupied by Prof. Page should the said room be vacated by Prof. Page & to take such action thereon as may be deemed advisable when the contingency agove mentioned happens.

The Committee to report what action of this Board is appropriate in view of the recent donations to the University of Va. of W. W. Corcoran, Esqr, of Washington, D. C. recommend that the following resolutions be adopted by the Board.

Resolved (1) That this Board gratefully acknowledges the gift by W. W. Corcoran, Esqr, of Washington of $5000 in August last, to be applied to increasing the Library of the University, and of $50,000 in November last, to be applied to the endowment of the two schools of "Moral Philosophy" and of "History & Literature"

(2) That we recognize in these donations another illustration of that enlightened munificence in the donor which has already identified his name with many of the most splendid charaties \[sic\] of our times.

(3) That as a lasting monument of Mr. Corcoran's generosity and of our gratitude the two schools thus endowed shall be henceforth known as the "Corcoran School of Moral Philosophy" & the "Corcoran School of History & Literature".

(4) That the action of the Executive Committee in regard to the funds donated by Mr. Corcoran as set forth in their report is hereby ratified.

(5) That the secretary communicate to Mr. Corcoran a copy of these resolutions.

The Committee upon the Library respectfully report that they have inspected the condition of the Library. They find the Room, cases and books, in good order, and the latter in will \[sic\] preserved state.

They have considered the statements and suggestions made in the Librarian's Report; and the communication of Mr. J. H. Siddons & referred to this Committee. In regard to the latter they recommend that the Board decline to recognize that any claim is upon it to make pecuniary compensation to Mr. Siddons for the labor voluntarily assumed by him in making the Catalogue mentioned in his letter, and further declines, in view of the limited means of the University to employ any one, at present, to make a new Catalogue. The value of a complete and skillfully prepared subject Catalogue is readily recognized, but it is a work requiring so much labor and expertness as to demand and \[sic\] outlay for compensation which can not be borne by the present financial resources of the University.

The Committee cordially concurs in the acknowledgment made in the Librarian's Report of the great and timely benefits to the Library conferred by the generous aid of W. W. Corcoran, Esq. A Special Committee having been raised to prepare an expression of the sense of the Board upon this subject, no further remark need be made by the Committee.

They recommend it as worthy of consideration by the Board, whether an increase should be made in the very small compensation allowed the Assistant Librarian, whose valuable services attested by the judgment of the Librarian approve him to be a competent and useful officer. It appears that the sum of $96.30 derived this session from fines accrued to the Library fund does not enter into the financial exhibit reported by the Proctor; this sum may therefore be used for increasing said salary without disturbing the financial estimates based upon the Proctor's Report; The Committee recommend that it be so applied.

The Committee on Apparatus beg to submit the following Report:

We have had full opportunity, under the courteous guidance of Prof, Mallet, of examining into the condition of the apparatus &c belonging to the Schools of General & Applied Chemistry. Our visit to the Laboratory gave us great pleasure. The excellence of the Apparatus, and the various appliances for operative Chemistry in quantity and quality of the chemicals and chemical —;products—;the thorough order and perfect neatness every where conspicuous, filled us with admiration. It is, we are sure, matter of just pride to the friends of the University that she has a Laboratory so equipped and so managed.

We return herewith the report of Prof. Mallet, with a list of articles, added within the year by gift or otherwise, to the collection of specimens &c.

While not strictly pertinent to the matter of this report, we venture to express our gratification that the high scientific attainments of Prof. Mallet have found fitting recognition in the fact of his recent election as a Fellow of the Royal Society of England. We derive this information not from himself, but from one of his Colleagues in the Faculty.

The Committee have also examined the Apparatus & other applainces of instruction in the school of Natural Philosophy, having in the examination the intelligent aid of Prof. Smith. We find the rooms and apparatus in the same condition of order and neatness which we have mentioned as characterizing the Laboratory. While Prof. Smith would be glad of additional apparatus for the better illustration of some of the recent phases of physical science, he makes no request of the Board at this time for an appropriation. It will be gratifying to the Board to know that out of the annual appropriations to this School, he has been able to accumulate a reserve of about $300 which will be no doubt most judiciously expended.

We were greatly interested in noticing the evidence of careful work on the part of some of the students in the Department of Practical Physics. This addition to the School of Natural Phylosophy \[sic\] must prove of great value in training our future teachers of Physical Science.

John Hart Chairman

Your Committee have the honor to report that they find the grounds of the Institution in their usual good order. They would recommend that the inside enclosures so far as they are not necessary to protect the privacy of the Pavillions \[sic\] shall gradually and with as little expense as possible be removed. The return to the old carriage approach to the grounds rendered necessary by the Museum Building would be much more acceptable if the fences on each side of the new road were removed.

The pavements under Arcades which were in such miserable order at the former meeting of the Board have been put in good condition during the past year. In the opinion of your committee the appropriation for improvement, and repairs should, if practicable, be doubled. The floors covering the Colonades on the lawn are so much decayed as to be dangerous to walk over and almost useless to protect the walks underneath, from the weather. As a sanitary measure they should be, as far as practicable, be repaired. In their present condition they keep off the sun and do not protect the pavements in front of the dormitories from the weather. It would probably not be well to undertake to renew them until we had the means to put pavement metal floors. All the Buildings are suffering for a renewal of external paint. We would recommend that the Proctor be directed to apply not less than a thousand dollars to external painting during the next year. We recommend that fifty dollars be appropriated to the repair of the floors in the basement of Prof. Pages Pavillion. At the last meeting of the Board an application from Prof. Minor for the enlargement of his pavilion was presented and the Board replied that as soon as the financial condition of the University would admit the request would be complied with. The necessity for such enlargement is greater each year as Mr. Minor's children grow older. Your Committee therefore recommend that if practicable the appropriation of $2000 be made, contingent upon an increase of income sufficient to meet it. Prof. Prices request that the porches, front and rear of his house should be renewed is not deemed by this Committee unreasonable, they are therefore sorry that the financial condition of the University probably renders any appropriation impossible.

The letter of Prof. Ward's referring to the further purchase of cases was carefully considered by your Committee.

If the money could be gotten it would be very desirable to apply it to such a purchase and it is only that difficulty that prevents your Committee's recommending an appropriation.

Supplemental to above- We advise, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty the appropriation of $150 to the enlargement of Mess Halls.

Resolved, that the fund of $96.30 obtained from fines accrued to the Library fund for this session, be paid over to Mr. Frederick W. Page Assistant Librarian as compensation for his services in addition to the salary of $200 allowed him.

The special Committee on conduct of Schools reported & recommended the adoption of the following and on motion the order was adopted as follows:

Ordered, that the Professor of each School on the University shall make to this Board at its annual meetings a report of the operations of his school for the session, such reports to be submitted through the Chairman of the Faculty along with the General Faculty Report.

These reports shall embrace the following particulars:

1\. The number of students in each class of the school and the average attendance on the lectures.

2\. The number of lectures per week in each class.

3\. The range of studies in each class on which there are regular lectures and class examinations.

4\. The amount of extra class work imposed on the members of each class, in the form of parallel reading, original exercises Essays, &c.

5\. The number of Examinations held in each class, with statement of the minimum, maximum & average time occupied in such examination.

6\. The standard of attainment required in the examinations of the several classes.

7\. The number of students who attempt the several examinations and the number who attain the required grades.

8\. The state of preparation on the part of the students for the work of the several classes, as compared with previous sessions.

9\. Suggestions as to any enlargement or modification of the work of the school that may seem desirable.

10\. The wants of the school in respect of apparatus or other appliances of instruction.

11\. Matters not included above which the Professor may wish to lay before the Board.

Ordered—; That Article 8 of Section 1 of Chapter 2 of the Abstract of Enactments published in 1859, and any other order on this subject be and is hereby rescinded.

Resolved that in addition to the standing committee's hitherto appointed, a committee of three be appointed, to be called "the Committee on the Conduct of Schools and the System of Instruction".

The Rector appointed the following gentlemen to constitute the Committee under the foregoing resolution, viz

Messrs Randolph

Hart &

Whitehead

On motion, Ordered, 1. That the resolution of the Board passed Sep. 7th 1870 and recorded on page 290 of this book \[p. 266 of typed copy\], be and the same is hereby rescinded.

2\. That henceforth the Professors may at their discretion give students credit for the fees of their schools, but the amount for which credit is thus given shall be reported by them to the Proctor and shall be included in his annual statement as Cash received by him and paid to them on account of compensation as far as the same is derived from tuition fees.

Resolved, That the Committee on the "Conduct of the Schools and the System of Instruction" be and are hereby instructed and requested to make a thorough revision of all the Bye Laws and regulations of the University and make report to the next annual session of the Board of Visitors.

Resolved that the Proctor be & he is hereby instructed, to cause to be constructed at some convenient place or places on the grounds of the University, one or more Batteries or Ball Alleys for the use of the students, provided the cost thereof shall not exceed one hundred dollars, which sum is hereby appropriated to that object to be paid out of the fund for improvements and repairs

The following communication was received from the Miller Board:

"Resolved that the attention of the Board of Visitors be respectfully called to the 3d clause of the Deed of Trust from Samuel Miller, which is as follows:

\`All property for the use of the said school by means of the interest, income & profits of the said Fund shall belong to and constitute a part of this Trust. An inventory thereof shall be made annually by the person or persons in whose possession the same may be and returned to the Trustees to be preserved among the records and papers relating to the trust.'

And the Board of Visitors are respectfully requested to call the attention of the \`person or persons' in whose possession this property may be, to this resolution, and to cause this clause of the deed to be complied with.

A copy, Teste

R. T. W. Duke, Secretary/"

Which upon being read and considered on motion, Resolved, that to comply with the requirements of the 3d clause of the Deed of Trust from Samuel Miller Prof. Page be requested to furnish the Board of Visitors at its next annual session an inventory of all the property in his possession for the use of the School of Experimental and Scientific Agriculture which has been organized by expenditures from the Miller Trust Fund.

The new bond of the Proctor & Superintendent executed Decr 8th 1877 was submitted to the Board for its consideration, Whereupon the same was read and considered- and on motion, Ordered, that the bond be approved and spread upon the Minutes of the Board- and is as follows:

Know all men by these presents that We, G. Peyton and Charles S. Venable are held and firmly bound unto the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and their successors in office in the sum of Twenty Thousand Dollars, to be paid to the said Rector, and Visitors of the University of Virginia and their successors in office: for the payments whereof well and truly to be made we bind ourselves jointly and severally, firmly by these presents- Sealed with our seals and dated the Eighth day of December in the year of our Lord One thousand Eight hundred and seventy six.

The condition of the above obligation is such that whereas the above bound G. Peyton was duly elected Proctor and Superintendent of grounds and Buildings of the University of Virginia: Now therefore if the above bound G. Peyton shall well and truly and legally disburse and account for all moneys and effects which may come into his hands by virtue of said office, and shall well and truly and faithfully disburse and perform all the duties devolved upon him as such officer, then the foregoing obligation shall be void, otherwise to remain in full force and virtue.

G. Peyton

Chas. S. Venable Seal

On motion the present Executive Committee of the Board, viz, The Rector and Messrs Bocock & Randolph were reelected for the ensuing year.

On motion Dr. James F. Harrison was reelected Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year.

Ordered that the Board adjourn to meet tomorrow morning at 9 Oclock.

Jas. D. Jones Secretary

Alex. H. H. Stuart Rector

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday- Present the same members as on yesterday with the exception of Mr. Gilmore absent.

The Finance Committee submitted its report which was received, and on being read and considered the same was on motion approved and adopted and ordered to be spread upon the minutes which is done as follows:

Finance Committee Report 1876-7

To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

Your Committee to whom was referred so much of the Annual Report of the Faculty as refers to the Finances of the University & the mode of disbursing the same; fixing the amount of compensation to the Professors, and the mode of raising the same, and other matters of an analagous character, has had the same under consideration and beg leave to submit the following report:

Your Committee have given to the subject of compensating the Professors, the proper amount of said compensation and the best mode of raising the same that large consideration which the great importance of the subject justly requires, and with every disposition, not only to do ample justice to every member of the Faculty, but to conform our action to the wishes and tastes of each and all of them, so far as consistent with right, justice and the best interests of the University, we have yet been unable to see the propriety of allowing to certain Professors, privileges in regard to the appropriation of the fees of their chairs, which are neither exercised nor claimed by the other members of the Faculty. The reasons for allowing to each Professor the fees of his chair, which were once supposed to be strong are greatly lessened if not entirely removed at the present time and in order to advance the interest and promote the prosperity of the whole school equallity of right among the Professors, seems now to afford the more effective policy. Many considerations other than the reputation of the teacher and which are beyond his control, aid in determining the popularity of a chair, and to teach a large class is little more laborious than to teach a small one. We therefore recommend that the Board of Visitors in the exercises of the power granted to them, by Act of the last Legislature should place every Professor on the same footing in this respect. We submit resolutions to that effect.

It appears to us, that the Proctors annual Report, should be more full and ample in relation to the collection of fees, than the regulations in force have heretofore required.

We therefore report a resolution on that subject. The recommendation of the Faculty, that the Assistant Professor, known as the demonstrator of Anatomy, should receive a yearly salary of Eight hundred dollars, seems to us reasonable and we report a resolution and an estimate in accordance with said recommendation.

The series of resolves, on the subject of the Proctors account, which were submitted with the Faculty Report and referred to us, are in our opinion too sweeping in their scope, and stringent in their operation, to be passed without full consideration. We therefore report them back, for such action as the Board may choose to take at this meeting.

We submit resolutions in relation to the Report of the Infirmary Board; about the fee of Thomas D. Ranson, who acted as our counsel in two suits lately pending in the circuit court of Augusta touching the Estate of Thomas Johnson decd; and authorizing a drawback to Virginia students who matriculate and pay fees and afterward reach the age of eighteen before the 1st day of March in the same session, and upon other points presented for our consideration. There is one other subject, of great consequence to the interest of the University, and to the fame of the present Board of Visitors to which we wish to call your special attention; under our contract with H. A. Ward of Rochester for furnishing cases for our Museum of Natural History, we are likely to be indebted to him, the sum of ten thousand dollars payable in the next thirty days. To meet this debt we have made and placed upon the market our Bonds guaranteed by the Trustees of the Miller fund, but as yet none of these bonds have been sold, and we see no prospect of raising the requisite funds in any reasonable time, by means of them.

To fail in meeting this debt when it falls due, would greatly impair our credit; and might inflict upon us other serious injuries.

We can not too strongly urge the importance of prompt action and earnest effort on this subject. If no plan can be divised at this meeting to raise this money (and we have none to recommend) the subject should at least be referred to the Executive Committee with ample power and authority to do whatever may appear necessary or advisable in the premises.

The letter of Genl. Francis H. Smith, Principal of the Virginia Military Institute, asking payment of our Bonds, held by said Institutie (the principal of which amounts to twenty thousand dollars) and which falls due in a few days, has also been considered by us. We know of no manner of payment other than by the sale of our eight per cent bonds, which at this time appears to be impracticable. We recommend this subject also be referred to the Executive Committee, with power to do what they may consider reasonable and proper in the premises, and with the request that they address a polite letter to Genl. Smith explaining so far as necessary the condition of our pecuniary affairs.

We herewith report the necessary appropriations for the current fiscal year.

Resolved, that we approve and adopt the list of estimates returned by the Faculty with their annual report so altered and modified as to read as follows, viz

On the basis of 325 students, but we recommend that in case of an increase of students the fees &c be equally divided among the said fourteen professors and one adjunct professor, provided that no professor shall receive more than three thousand dollars in compensation and division of fees as aforesaid. Any amount which may be received beyond what may be sufficient for the payment of salaries shall be subject to the direction of the Board.

1\. Resolved, that in the opinion of this Board, the fees of each and every chair in the University should, in the existing state of things constitute a common fund, for the payment of all the Professors in equal proportions, and until the further order of this Board, we direct that they be so employed.

2\. Resolved, that whenever the amount payable to the different professors from salary & fees shall reach the sum of three thousand dollars, then any further income arising from the same service shall go to and constitute a part of the fund for improvements and repairs.

Resolved, that the Proctor, in addition to the account he is now required to keep, showing the exact amount of fees properly chargeable against each student matriculated at the University during every session, what portion thereof is collected, what uncollected and why, and if bonds are taken in any case, that he state upon whose authority they are so taken, and return the same with his annual report.

Resolved, that till the further order of this Board, the Assistant Professor known as the Demonstrator of Anatomy shall be allowed as a salary the sum of eight hundred dollars per year.

Resolved, (1) that we approve the report of the Infirmary Board, giving an account of their management of that Institution during the last fiscal year, and tender to them our thanks for the near approximation they have made towards rendering it self-sustaining.

2\. Resolved, that if at the end of the next fiscal year, any surplus fund should be found on hand from the management of this Institution, it be applied to salaries of the different members of the Infirmary Board, till each of said salaries shall reach the sum of five hundred dollars per annum extending back to the beginning of the last fiscal year.

3\. Resolved, that if any further surplus should remain on hand, it be invested by said Infirmary Board under the direction of the Executive Committee and held sacred for the uses and purposes of the said Infirmary.

Resolved, that every Virginia student who shall hereafter matriculate in the Academical Department of the University shall do so subject to the following regulation, viz, if he shall have paid his fees for the session and shall afterward during the same session, reach the age of eighteen he shall be entitled to a drawback thereon upon complying with the requirement of the law in relation to examination, for an amount proportioned to the time which may elapse after he shall become eighteen.

Resolved, that the whole subject of Examination of Virginia students for admission into the University without charge for tuition, under the Act of February 26th 1876, be referred to the Faculty with instructions to subject all applicants to actual examination, but giving however such weight as they may deem best to any certificate of any school or college that may be presented.

Resolved, that provided the appropriation for improvements and repairs should be increased over $3000 the Proctor be directed to reserve such increase to be applied, as soon as sufficient, to the improvement of Prof. Minor's pavillion. And such other improvement as the Executive Committee may deem expedient.

Resolved, that the Proctor be directed to lay aside 50 per cent of the funds received from all sources coming into his hands and pay to each Professor his quota of such reserve fund on the 15th of October and the 15th of January and the 15th of April respectively, making a final settlement in accordance with the detail appropriation on 1st day of July.

Resolved, That the Proctor be directed to appropriate from the Fund for Improvements & Repairs fifty dollars for the repair of the basement floor of Prof. Page's pavillion.

Resolved, that the Proctor be directed to remove the inside enclosures except such enclosures as are necessary to protect the privacy of the pavillions, with as little expense as possible and gradually so as to produce as little inconvenience as possible.

Resolved, that the Proctor be directed to repair the floors over the Colonades.

The following preamble and resolution was adopted: Whereas the enactments of the University (Sec. 2 Chapter 2 of Abstract of Enactments Ed. 1859) require the Proctor to make to the Chairman of the Faculty weekly reports of inspection of Hotels, Dormitories &c, which reports said Chairman shall lay before this Board at its regular meetings. And whereas no such reports have been laid before this Board.

Resolved, that the Chairman of the Faculty is requested to see that such reports be regularly made to him, to be laid by him before this Board- provided that these reports may be monthly instead of weekly as heretofore required.

Resolved, that the Secretary of the Board communicate to Mr. Siddons a copy of that portion of the Report of the Library Committee which refers to his communication, at the response of the Board to the same.

On motion the following resolution was adopted: Whereas Thos. D. Ranson, Esqr in whose hands the troublesome litigation in connection with the Johnson legacy was placed, having consented to the request of the Board that his bill, in consideration of the fact that nothing could be derived from the legacy and notwithstanding the fact that the service rendered was not at all inadequate to the sum charged, should be reduced to $250 instead of $350. Be it resolved that the Proctor be directed to pay to Mr. Ranson $250.

On motion the Board adjourned to the 24th day of June next.

At the annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia held at the University on the 25th day of June 1877- Present- Mr. Stuart, Rector, and Messrs Bocock, Conrad, Goode, Gilmore, Hart, Randolph & Whitehead.

The Rector called the Board to order.

Ordered, that the Secretary inform the Chairman of the Faculty that this Board is organized and ready to receive any Communications that he may have to present.

The Secretary having communicated this information to the Chairman of the Faculty, Dr. Harrison, he appeared before the Board and presented his annual report accompanied with the report of the Faculty, the Librarian's report, the Proctor's report, Commr Gordon's report, and the reports of Prof. Mallet & Page through this Board to the Miller Board.

1\. On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock.

The building for the Museum of Natural History is now completed and was received by the Architect about the 1st of June. The donor through Prof. Ward notified us in August last that he would add to his donation a sum sufficient to complete the building in the style of the original design and intimated a wish that the Architect and Mr. Ward should be consulted. Early in August Dr. Randolph of this Committee and the Proctor, Major Peyton, met Messrs Ward & Thomas the Architect in Baltimore and succeeded in making a contract with Messrs West & Carroll, the Contractors who made the only additions to contract

1,152.95

Brick (made here)

4,158.55

Architect

940.00

Foundation

353.48

As Chairman of the Executive Committee I have the honor to make the following report of the Executive Committee for the past year.

bid for the whole work in June. The whole cost as contracted for was $28,043.00 this did not include the brick made here $4,158.55, the cost of the steps (which were more expensive because from the character of the ground more steps were required) nor the elevator and an increased thickening of the side walls was deemed necessary as the building progressed. These additional expenses would have required us to raise from the funds of the University from 1800 to 2000 dollars; but the donor of the fund with characteristic liberality as he ascertained that there was to be an additional cost (which information he got from Mr. Ward, we not being privy to his intention) sent a check for the amount.

The amount to be paid for Prof. Ward for cases, which was to be raised from the sale of bonds of the University endorsed by the Trustees of the Miller Fund, the Miller Trustees to pay interest and sinking fund has not been yet raised; the bonds have been placed in the hands of a Broker for sale who reports that he apprehends no difficulty in their sale. The two thousand dollars to pay for mounting &c to be raised by subscription from the Society of the Alumni has been pledged and most of it collected, it will all be forthcoming when needed. A farther sum of $1300 will be needed to complete the payment of freight &c. This amount will have to be raised yet. I have to ask action on this matter at this meeting as the money will be needed in the next two months. We owe the excellent character of the work in a great measure to the capacity and energy of our Superintendent of grounds & buildings, Major Peyton. We authorized Dr. Page to lease the Parsonage to a lady who desired to send a son to College. Dr. Page having leased the house for his own use from the Chaplain.

It having been referred to this Committee to remit the Infirmary to the management of the physicians or not as they deemed best, directed that they should have full charge of it and have every reason to suppose that it has been made self sustaining.

By resolution we also directed the Proctor to have such repairs as were necessary to be made to the house occupied by Mr. Price.

By resolution we also directed the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings to connect the downfall with Sewers, under the direction of the Board of health provided the cost did not exceed $250.

During the Summer, Mr. W. W. Corcoran of Washington, D. C. donated $5000 to the Library of the University , a thousand to be paid each year. By resolution we directed the Proctor to receipt for the amount, keep it as a special fund and to exceed it alone under the direction of the Faculty in the purchase of books. That books thus procured shall be kept in separate sections and labelled "Corcoran donations".

In November of 1876 Mr. Corcoran made another donation of $50,000 par, in State Bonds to be used to endow professorships. On consultation with the Faculty- Your Committee determined to divide the interest between the schools of History & Literature and Moral Philosophy. And directed that the two schools should be called "Corcoran School of History & Literature" and "Corcoran School of Moral Philosophy". This action should be approved or disapproved by the Board of Visitors and thus confirmed or not as may be deemed best.

The sum of $200 was appropriated by Your Committee to pay the salary of the Assistant Librarian, appointed under your resolution by the Faculty. The Board of Health reported drains necessary for the Lawn, the Cellars of pavillions and dormitories having been made damp by surface water. We directed an appropriation of $300 from the fund for improvements and repairs to that purpose. Also a sum of fifty dollars from the same fund to repairs of the Infirmary. By resolution we directed that no sewers should be made or opened except by Order of the Board of Health.

Your Committee gave permission to Prof. Schele to absent himself from the University- a few days before the final day and not to return if he desired before the 1st October, he having stated that his wife's health required a sea voyage.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment. Present the same members as on yesterday.

The letter of the Chairman, enclosing the Annual Report of the Faculty having been read and considered, it was

1\. Resolved that this Board has heard with much pleasure, the statement contained in said letter that with few exceptions, the students have been orderly and studious during the last session and have shown a marked improvement in the observance of the Rules & Regulations of the University.

2\. Resolved, that this Board, approving the action of the Faculty in that regard, do hereby confirm their expulsion of J. W. Mountcastle, a student of the University during the last session.

Whereas there has been a long established rule in this Institution, that all elections of Professors shall in the beginning, be for one year only; And whereas in the election of Thomas R. Price, to the Chair of Greek, at the last annual meeting of this Board, it was not declared whether said election was designed to be permanent or temporary only.

Now therefore, to remove all doubt on the subject this Board doth resolved, that the said Thomas R. Price is hereby declared to be the permanent Professor of Greek in the University of Virginia.

Resolved- That the thanks of this Board are hereby tendered Prof. W. B. Rogers for the generous gift of one thousand dollars to the Alumnus fund for the establishment of the Natural History Museum.

That the Rector be requested to communicate to Prof. Rogers this resolution and to asure him of the profound satisfaction with which we accept this testimonial of interest on the part of one who was so long identified with the University, and who contributed so largely to give her the high place that she holds today among the Institutions of our country.

The Committee on the Miller Fund submitted the following report which was received and upon being read and considered on motion the same was approved and adopted. (Messrs Bocock, Randolph, & Whitehead voting in the negative.)

At a conference of the two committees appointed by the Miller Board and the Board of Visitors of the University, respectively, for the purpose of considering and reporting a plan for appropriating the Miller Fund in accordance with the provisions of the Trust.

Resolved, that at each of the annual meetings of the said Board the amounts to be appropriated by the Miller Board shall be first ascertained by that Board and the two Boards shall then upon conference prescribe the sums in which and the objects to which the said amount shall be applied, provided Both Boards can agree upon the sums & objects, but in the event of their disagreement the Miller Board then claims the right to prescribe the sums and the objects to which the said amount shall be applied.

The following report was submitted by the Committee of the Miller Fund which was received and upon being read and considered on motion the same was approved and adopted.

The joint committee appointed by the Board of Visitors of the University of Va. and by the Miller Board for the purpose of recommending what mode can be adopted by both Boards to obtain such information as may be necessary to enable both Boards to adopt measures to improve the efficiency of the school of Agriculture in the University of Va. beg to report that after conference they deem it wise to suggest to the Board the appointment of a Committee of two, one to be selected by each Board, whose duty it shall be to make such inquiry by correspondence or otherwise as to them may seem best and report the result of said inquiries to the said Boards at their annual meeting in June next. And they recommend that such sum as may be necessary be appropriated by the Miller Board to defray the expenses of the said committee.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday.

The Committees on Apparatus, Grounds & Buildings, the Library and Corcorans Donations, respectively submitted their reports which were received and on being read and considered were severally approved and adopted and ordered to be spread upon the minutes.

On motion resolved, that, the Executive Committee be authorized to consider the request of Prof. Smith for the lecture room now occupied by Prof. Page should the said room be vacated by Prof. Page & to take such action thereon as may be deemed advisable when the contingency agove mentioned happens.

The Committee to report what action of this Board is appropriate in view of the recent donations to the University of Va. of W. W. Corcoran, Esqr, of Washington, D. C. recommend that the following resolutions be adopted by the Board.

Resolved (1) That this Board gratefully acknowledges the gift by W. W. Corcoran, Esqr, of Washington of $5000 in August last, to be applied to increasing the Library of the University, and of $50,000 in November last, to be applied to the endowment of the two schools of "Moral Philosophy" and of "History & Literature"

(2) That we recognize in these donations another illustration of that enlightened munificence in the donor which has already identified his name with many of the most splendid charaties \[sic\] of our times.

(3) That as a lasting monument of Mr. Corcoran's generosity and of our gratitude the two schools thus endowed shall be henceforth known as the "Corcoran School of Moral Philosophy" & the "Corcoran School of History & Literature".

(4) That the action of the Executive Committee in regard to the funds donated by Mr. Corcoran as set forth in their report is hereby ratified.

(5) That the secretary communicate to Mr. Corcoran a copy of these resolutions.

The Committee upon the Library respectfully report that they have inspected the condition of the Library. They find the Room, cases and books, in good order, and the latter in will \[sic\] preserved state.

They have considered the statements and suggestions made in the Librarian's Report; and the communication of Mr. J. H. Siddons & referred to this Committee. In regard to the latter they recommend that the Board decline to recognize that any claim is upon it to make pecuniary compensation to Mr. Siddons for the labor voluntarily assumed by him in making the Catalogue mentioned in his letter, and further declines, in view of the limited means of the University to employ any one, at present, to make a new Catalogue. The value of a complete and skillfully prepared subject Catalogue is readily recognized, but it is a work requiring so much labor and expertness as to demand and \[sic\] outlay for compensation which can not be borne by the present financial resources of the University.

The Committee cordially concurs in the acknowledgment made in the Librarian's Report of the great and timely benefits to the Library conferred by the generous aid of W. W. Corcoran, Esq. A Special Committee having been raised to prepare an expression of the sense of the Board upon this subject, no further remark need be made by the Committee.

They recommend it as worthy of consideration by the Board, whether an increase should be made in the very small compensation allowed the Assistant Librarian, whose valuable services attested by the judgment of the Librarian approve him to be a competent and useful officer. It appears that the sum of $96.30 derived this session from fines accrued to the Library fund does not enter into the financial exhibit reported by the Proctor; this sum may therefore be used for increasing said salary without disturbing the financial estimates based upon the Proctor's Report; The Committee recommend that it be so applied.

Your Committee have the honor to report that they find the grounds of the Institution in their usual good order. They would recommend that the inside enclosures so far as they are not necessary to protect the privacy of the Pavillions \[sic\] shall gradually and with as little expense as possible be removed. The return to the old carriage approach to the grounds rendered necessary by the Museum Building would be much more acceptable if the fences on each side of the new road were removed.

The pavements under Arcades which were in such miserable order at the former meeting of the Board have been put in good condition during the past year. In the opinion of your committee the appropriation for improvement, and repairs should, if practicable, be doubled. The floors covering the Colonades on the lawn are so much decayed as to be dangerous to walk over and almost useless to protect the walks underneath, from the weather. As a sanitary measure they should be, as far as practicable, be repaired. In their present condition they keep off the sun and do not protect the pavements in front of the dormitories from the weather. It would probably not be well to undertake to renew them until we had the means to put pavement metal floors. All the Buildings are suffering for a renewal of external paint. We would recommend that the Proctor be directed to apply not less than a thousand dollars to external painting during the next year. We recommend that fifty dollars be appropriated to the repair of the floors in the basement of Prof. Pages Pavillion. At the last meeting of the Board an application from Prof. Minor for the enlargement of his pavilion was presented and the Board replied that as soon as the financial condition of the University would admit the request would be complied with. The necessity for such enlargement is greater each year as Mr. Minor's children grow older. Your Committee therefore recommend that if practicable the appropriation of $2000 be made, contingent upon an increase of income sufficient to meet it. Prof. Prices request that the porches, front and rear of his house should be renewed is not deemed by this Committee unreasonable, they are therefore sorry that the financial condition of the University probably renders any appropriation impossible.

The letter of Prof. Ward's referring to the further purchase of cases was carefully considered by your Committee.

If the money could be gotten it would be very desirable to apply it to such a purchase and it is only that difficulty that prevents your Committee's recommending an appropriation.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday- Present the same members as on yesterday with the exception of Mr. Gilmore absent.

The Finance Committee submitted its report which was received, and on being read and considered the same was on motion approved and adopted and ordered to be spread upon the minutes which is done as follows:

Finance Committee Report 1876-7

To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

Your Committee to whom was referred so much of the Annual Report of the Faculty as refers to the Finances of the University & the mode of disbursing the same; fixing the amount of compensation to the Professors, and the mode of raising the same, and other matters of an analagous character, has had the same under consideration and beg leave to submit the following report:

Your Committee have given to the subject of compensating the Professors, the proper amount of said compensation and the best mode of raising the same that large consideration which the great importance of the subject justly requires, and with every disposition, not only to do ample justice to every member of the Faculty, but to conform our action to the wishes and tastes of each and all of them, so far as consistent with right, justice and the best interests of the University, we have yet been unable to see the propriety of allowing to certain Professors, privileges in regard to the appropriation of the fees of their chairs, which are neither exercised nor claimed by the other members of the Faculty. The reasons for allowing to each Professor the fees of his chair, which were once supposed to be strong are greatly lessened if not entirely removed at the present time and in order to advance the interest and promote the prosperity of the whole school equallity of right among the Professors, seems now to afford the more effective policy. Many considerations other than the reputation of the teacher and which are beyond his control, aid in determining the popularity of a chair, and to teach a large class is little more laborious than to teach a small one. We therefore recommend that the Board of Visitors in the exercises of the power granted to them, by Act of the last Legislature should place every Professor on the same footing in this respect. We submit resolutions to that effect.

It appears to us, that the Proctors annual Report, should be more full and ample in relation to the collection of fees, than the regulations in force have heretofore required.

We therefore report a resolution on that subject. The recommendation of the Faculty, that the Assistant Professor, known as the demonstrator of Anatomy, should receive a yearly salary of Eight hundred dollars, seems to us reasonable and we report a resolution and an estimate in accordance with said recommendation.

The series of resolves, on the subject of the Proctors account, which were submitted with the Faculty Report and referred to us, are in our opinion too sweeping in their scope, and stringent in their operation, to be passed without full consideration. We therefore report them back, for such action as the Board may choose to take at this meeting.

We submit resolutions in relation to the Report of the Infirmary Board; about the fee of Thomas D. Ranson, who acted as our counsel in two suits lately pending in the circuit court of Augusta touching the Estate of Thomas Johnson decd; and authorizing a drawback to Virginia students who matriculate and pay fees and afterward reach the age of eighteen before the 1st day of March in the same session, and upon other points presented for our consideration. There is one other subject, of great consequence to the interest of the University, and to the fame of the present Board of Visitors to which we wish to call your special attention; under our contract with H. A. Ward of Rochester for furnishing cases for our Museum of Natural History, we are likely to be indebted to him, the sum of ten thousand dollars payable in the next thirty days. To meet this debt we have made and placed upon the market our Bonds guaranteed by the Trustees of the Miller fund, but as yet none of these bonds have been sold, and we see no prospect of raising the requisite funds in any reasonable time, by means of them.

To fail in meeting this debt when it falls due, would greatly impair our credit; and might inflict upon us other serious injuries.

We can not too strongly urge the importance of prompt action and earnest effort on this subject. If no plan can be divised at this meeting to raise this money (and we have none to recommend) the subject should at least be referred to the Executive Committee with ample power and authority to do whatever may appear necessary or advisable in the premises.

The letter of Genl. Francis H. Smith, Principal of the Virginia Military Institute, asking payment of our Bonds, held by said Institutie (the principal of which amounts to twenty thousand dollars) and which falls due in a few days, has also been considered by us. We know of no manner of payment other than by the sale of our eight per cent bonds, which at this time appears to be impracticable. We recommend this subject also be referred to the Executive Committee, with power to do what they may consider reasonable and proper in the premises, and with the request that they address a polite letter to Genl. Smith explaining so far as necessary the condition of our pecuniary affairs.

We herewith report the necessary appropriations for the current fiscal year.

At the annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia held at the University on the 25th day of June 1877- Present- Mr. Stuart, Rector, and Messrs Bocock, Conrad, Goode, Gilmore, Hart, Randolph & Whitehead.

The Rector called the Board to order.

Ordered, that the Secretary inform the Chairman of the Faculty that this Board is organized and ready to receive any Communications that he may have to present.

The Secretary having communicated this information to the Chairman of the Faculty, Dr. Harrison, he appeared before the Board and presented his annual report accompanied with the report of the Faculty, the Librarian's report, the Proctor's report, Commr Gordon's report, and the reports of Prof. Mallet & Page through this Board to the Miller Board.

1\. On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock.

The building for the Museum of Natural History is now completed and was received by the Architect about the 1st of June. The donor through Prof. Ward notified us in August last that he would add to his donation a sum sufficient to complete the building in the style of the original design and intimated a wish that the Architect and Mr. Ward should be consulted. Early in August Dr. Randolph of this Committee and the Proctor, Major Peyton, met Messrs Ward & Thomas the Architect in Baltimore and succeeded in making a contract with Messrs West & Carroll, the Contractors who made the only additions to contract

1,152.95

Brick (made here)

4,158.55

Architect

940.00

Foundation

353.48

As Chairman of the Executive Committee I have the honor to make the following report of the Executive Committee for the past year.

bid for the whole work in June. The whole cost as contracted for was $28,043.00 this did not include the brick made here $4,158.55, the cost of the steps (which were more expensive because from the character of the ground more steps were required) nor the elevator and an increased thickening of the side walls was deemed necessary as the building progressed. These additional expenses would have required us to raise from the funds of the University from 1800 to 2000 dollars; but the donor of the fund with characteristic liberality as he ascertained that there was to be an additional cost (which information he got from Mr. Ward, we not being privy to his intention) sent a check for the amount.

The amount to be paid for Prof. Ward for cases, which was to be raised from the sale of bonds of the University endorsed by the Trustees of the Miller Fund, the Miller Trustees to pay interest and sinking fund has not been yet raised; the bonds have been placed in the hands of a Broker for sale who reports that he apprehends no difficulty in their sale. The two thousand dollars to pay for mounting &c to be raised by subscription from the Society of the Alumni has been pledged and most of it collected, it will all be forthcoming when needed. A farther sum of $1300 will be needed to complete the payment of freight &c. This amount will have to be raised yet. I have to ask action on this matter at this meeting as the money will be needed in the next two months. We owe the excellent character of the work in a great measure to the capacity and energy of our Superintendent of grounds & buildings, Major Peyton. We authorized Dr. Page to lease the Parsonage to a lady who desired to send a son to College. Dr. Page having leased the house for his own use from the Chaplain.

It having been referred to this Committee to remit the Infirmary to the management of the physicians or not as they deemed best, directed that they should have full charge of it and have every reason to suppose that it has been made self sustaining.

By resolution we also directed the Proctor to have such repairs as were necessary to be made to the house occupied by Mr. Price.

By resolution we also directed the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings to connect the downfall with Sewers, under the direction of the Board of health provided the cost did not exceed $250.

During the Summer, Mr. W. W. Corcoran of Washington, D. C. donated $5000 to the Library of the University , a thousand to be paid each year. By resolution we directed the Proctor to receipt for the amount, keep it as a special fund and to exceed it alone under the direction of the Faculty in the purchase of books. That books thus procured shall be kept in separate sections and labelled "Corcoran donations".

In November of 1876 Mr. Corcoran made another donation of $50,000 par, in State Bonds to be used to endow professorships. On consultation with the Faculty- Your Committee determined to divide the interest between the schools of History & Literature and Moral Philosophy. And directed that the two schools should be called "Corcoran School of History & Literature" and "Corcoran School of Moral Philosophy". This action should be approved or disapproved by the Board of Visitors and thus confirmed or not as may be deemed best.

The sum of $200 was appropriated by Your Committee to pay the salary of the Assistant Librarian, appointed under your resolution by the Faculty. The Board of Health reported drains necessary for the Lawn, the Cellars of pavillions and dormitories having been made damp by surface water. We directed an appropriation of $300 from the fund for improvements and repairs to that purpose. Also a sum of fifty dollars from the same fund to repairs of the Infirmary. By resolution we directed that no sewers should be made or opened except by Order of the Board of Health.

Your Committee gave permission to Prof. Schele to absent himself from the University- a few days before the final day and not to return if he desired before the 1st October, he having stated that his wife's health required a sea voyage.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment. Present the same members as on yesterday.

The letter of the Chairman, enclosing the Annual Report of the Faculty having been read and considered, it was

1\. Resolved that this Board has heard with much pleasure, the statement contained in said letter that with few exceptions, the students have been orderly and studious during the last session and have shown a marked improvement in the observance of the Rules & Regulations of the University.

2\. Resolved, that this Board, approving the action of the Faculty in that regard, do hereby confirm their expulsion of J. W. Mountcastle, a student of the University during the last session.

Whereas there has been a long established rule in this Institution, that all elections of Professors shall in the beginning, be for one year only; And whereas in the election of Thomas R. Price, to the Chair of Greek, at the last annual meeting of this Board, it was not declared whether said election was designed to be permanent or temporary only.

Now therefore, to remove all doubt on the subject this Board doth resolved, that the said Thomas R. Price is hereby declared to be the permanent Professor of Greek in the University of Virginia.

Resolved- That the thanks of this Board are hereby tendered Prof. W. B. Rogers for the generous gift of one thousand dollars to the Alumnus fund for the establishment of the Natural History Museum.

That the Rector be requested to communicate to Prof. Rogers this resolution and to asure him of the profound satisfaction with which we accept this testimonial of interest on the part of one who was so long identified with the University, and who contributed so largely to give her the high place that she holds today among the Institutions of our country.

The Committee on the Miller Fund submitted the following report which was received and upon being read and considered on motion the same was approved and adopted. (Messrs Bocock, Randolph, & Whitehead voting in the negative.)

At a conference of the two committees appointed by the Miller Board and the Board of Visitors of the University, respectively, for the purpose of considering and reporting a plan for appropriating the Miller Fund in accordance with the provisions of the Trust.

Resolved, that at each of the annual meetings of the said Board the amounts to be appropriated by the Miller Board shall be first ascertained by that Board and the two Boards shall then upon conference prescribe the sums in which and the objects to which the said amount shall be applied, provided Both Boards can agree upon the sums & objects, but in the event of their disagreement the Miller Board then claims the right to prescribe the sums and the objects to which the said amount shall be applied.

The following report was submitted by the Committee of the Miller Fund which was received and upon being read and considered on motion the same was approved and adopted.

The joint committee appointed by the Board of Visitors of the University of Va. and by the Miller Board for the purpose of recommending what mode can be adopted by both Boards to obtain such information as may be necessary to enable both Boards to adopt measures to improve the efficiency of the school of Agriculture in the University of Va. beg to report that after conference they deem it wise to suggest to the Board the appointment of a Committee of two, one to be selected by each Board, whose duty it shall be to make such inquiry by correspondence or otherwise as to them may seem best and report the result of said inquiries to the said Boards at their annual meeting in June next. And they recommend that such sum as may be necessary be appropriated by the Miller Board to defray the expenses of the said committee.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday.

The Committees on Apparatus, Grounds & Buildings, the Library and Corcorans Donations, respectively submitted their reports which were received and on being read and considered were severally approved and adopted and ordered to be spread upon the minutes.

On motion resolved, that, the Executive Committee be authorized to consider the request of Prof. Smith for the lecture room now occupied by Prof. Page should the said room be vacated by Prof. Page & to take such action thereon as may be deemed advisable when the contingency agove mentioned happens.

The Committee to report what action of this Board is appropriate in view of the recent donations to the University of Va. of W. W. Corcoran, Esqr, of Washington, D. C. recommend that the following resolutions be adopted by the Board.

Resolved (1) That this Board gratefully acknowledges the gift by W. W. Corcoran, Esqr, of Washington of $5000 in August last, to be applied to increasing the Library of the University, and of $50,000 in November last, to be applied to the endowment of the two schools of "Moral Philosophy" and of "History & Literature"

(2) That we recognize in these donations another illustration of that enlightened munificence in the donor which has already identified his name with many of the most splendid charaties \[sic\] of our times.

(3) That as a lasting monument of Mr. Corcoran's generosity and of our gratitude the two schools thus endowed shall be henceforth known as the "Corcoran School of Moral Philosophy" & the "Corcoran School of History & Literature".

(4) That the action of the Executive Committee in regard to the funds donated by Mr. Corcoran as set forth in their report is hereby ratified.

(5) That the secretary communicate to Mr. Corcoran a copy of these resolutions.

The Committee upon the Library respectfully report that they have inspected the condition of the Library. They find the Room, cases and books, in good order, and the latter in will \[sic\] preserved state.

They have considered the statements and suggestions made in the Librarian's Report; and the communication of Mr. J. H. Siddons & referred to this Committee. In regard to the latter they recommend that the Board decline to recognize that any claim is upon it to make pecuniary compensation to Mr. Siddons for the labor voluntarily assumed by him in making the Catalogue mentioned in his letter, and further declines, in view of the limited means of the University to employ any one, at present, to make a new Catalogue. The value of a complete and skillfully prepared subject Catalogue is readily recognized, but it is a work requiring so much labor and expertness as to demand and \[sic\] outlay for compensation which can not be borne by the present financial resources of the University.

The Committee cordially concurs in the acknowledgment made in the Librarian's Report of the great and timely benefits to the Library conferred by the generous aid of W. W. Corcoran, Esq. A Special Committee having been raised to prepare an expression of the sense of the Board upon this subject, no further remark need be made by the Committee.

They recommend it as worthy of consideration by the Board, whether an increase should be made in the very small compensation allowed the Assistant Librarian, whose valuable services attested by the judgment of the Librarian approve him to be a competent and useful officer. It appears that the sum of $96.30 derived this session from fines accrued to the Library fund does not enter into the financial exhibit reported by the Proctor; this sum may therefore be used for increasing said salary without disturbing the financial estimates based upon the Proctor's Report; The Committee recommend that it be so applied.

Your Committee have the honor to report that they find the grounds of the Institution in their usual good order. They would recommend that the inside enclosures so far as they are not necessary to protect the privacy of the Pavillions \[sic\] shall gradually and with as little expense as possible be removed. The return to the old carriage approach to the grounds rendered necessary by the Museum Building would be much more acceptable if the fences on each side of the new road were removed.

The pavements under Arcades which were in such miserable order at the former meeting of the Board have been put in good condition during the past year. In the opinion of your committee the appropriation for improvement, and repairs should, if practicable, be doubled. The floors covering the Colonades on the lawn are so much decayed as to be dangerous to walk over and almost useless to protect the walks underneath, from the weather. As a sanitary measure they should be, as far as practicable, be repaired. In their present condition they keep off the sun and do not protect the pavements in front of the dormitories from the weather. It would probably not be well to undertake to renew them until we had the means to put pavement metal floors. All the Buildings are suffering for a renewal of external paint. We would recommend that the Proctor be directed to apply not less than a thousand dollars to external painting during the next year. We recommend that fifty dollars be appropriated to the repair of the floors in the basement of Prof. Pages Pavillion. At the last meeting of the Board an application from Prof. Minor for the enlargement of his pavilion was presented and the Board replied that as soon as the financial condition of the University would admit the request would be complied with. The necessity for such enlargement is greater each year as Mr. Minor's children grow older. Your Committee therefore recommend that if practicable the appropriation of $2000 be made, contingent upon an increase of income sufficient to meet it. Prof. Prices request that the porches, front and rear of his house should be renewed is not deemed by this Committee unreasonable, they are therefore sorry that the financial condition of the University probably renders any appropriation impossible.

The letter of Prof. Ward's referring to the further purchase of cases was carefully considered by your Committee.

If the money could be gotten it would be very desirable to apply it to such a purchase and it is only that difficulty that prevents your Committee's recommending an appropriation.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday- Present the same members as on yesterday with the exception of Mr. Gilmore absent.

The Finance Committee submitted its report which was received, and on being read and considered the same was on motion approved and adopted and ordered to be spread upon the minutes which is done as follows:

Finance Committee Report 1876-7

To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

Your Committee to whom was referred so much of the Annual Report of the Faculty as refers to the Finances of the University & the mode of disbursing the same; fixing the amount of compensation to the Professors, and the mode of raising the same, and other matters of an analagous character, has had the same under consideration and beg leave to submit the following report:

Your Committee have given to the subject of compensating the Professors, the proper amount of said compensation and the best mode of raising the same that large consideration which the great importance of the subject justly requires, and with every disposition, not only to do ample justice to every member of the Faculty, but to conform our action to the wishes and tastes of each and all of them, so far as consistent with right, justice and the best interests of the University, we have yet been unable to see the propriety of allowing to certain Professors, privileges in regard to the appropriation of the fees of their chairs, which are neither exercised nor claimed by the other members of the Faculty. The reasons for allowing to each Professor the fees of his chair, which were once supposed to be strong are greatly lessened if not entirely removed at the present time and in order to advance the interest and promote the prosperity of the whole school equallity of right among the Professors, seems now to afford the more effective policy. Many considerations other than the reputation of the teacher and which are beyond his control, aid in determining the popularity of a chair, and to teach a large class is little more laborious than to teach a small one. We therefore recommend that the Board of Visitors in the exercises of the power granted to them, by Act of the last Legislature should place every Professor on the same footing in this respect. We submit resolutions to that effect.

It appears to us, that the Proctors annual Report, should be more full and ample in relation to the collection of fees, than the regulations in force have heretofore required.

We therefore report a resolution on that subject. The recommendation of the Faculty, that the Assistant Professor, known as the demonstrator of Anatomy, should receive a yearly salary of Eight hundred dollars, seems to us reasonable and we report a resolution and an estimate in accordance with said recommendation.

The series of resolves, on the subject of the Proctors account, which were submitted with the Faculty Report and referred to us, are in our opinion too sweeping in their scope, and stringent in their operation, to be passed without full consideration. We therefore report them back, for such action as the Board may choose to take at this meeting.

We submit resolutions in relation to the Report of the Infirmary Board; about the fee of Thomas D. Ranson, who acted as our counsel in two suits lately pending in the circuit court of Augusta touching the Estate of Thomas Johnson decd; and authorizing a drawback to Virginia students who matriculate and pay fees and afterward reach the age of eighteen before the 1st day of March in the same session, and upon other points presented for our consideration. There is one other subject, of great consequence to the interest of the University, and to the fame of the present Board of Visitors to which we wish to call your special attention; under our contract with H. A. Ward of Rochester for furnishing cases for our Museum of Natural History, we are likely to be indebted to him, the sum of ten thousand dollars payable in the next thirty days. To meet this debt we have made and placed upon the market our Bonds guaranteed by the Trustees of the Miller fund, but as yet none of these bonds have been sold, and we see no prospect of raising the requisite funds in any reasonable time, by means of them.

To fail in meeting this debt when it falls due, would greatly impair our credit; and might inflict upon us other serious injuries.

We can not too strongly urge the importance of prompt action and earnest effort on this subject. If no plan can be divised at this meeting to raise this money (and we have none to recommend) the subject should at least be referred to the Executive Committee with ample power and authority to do whatever may appear necessary or advisable in the premises.

The letter of Genl. Francis H. Smith, Principal of the Virginia Military Institute, asking payment of our Bonds, held by said Institutie (the principal of which amounts to twenty thousand dollars) and which falls due in a few days, has also been considered by us. We know of no manner of payment other than by the sale of our eight per cent bonds, which at this time appears to be impracticable. We recommend this subject also be referred to the Executive Committee, with power to do what they may consider reasonable and proper in the premises, and with the request that they address a polite letter to Genl. Smith explaining so far as necessary the condition of our pecuniary affairs.

We herewith report the necessary appropriations for the current fiscal year.