Board of Visitors minutes (1880) June 28, 1880
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 28, 1880

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

24 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

To enlargement of Reservoir

$300.00

To Assist-Instructor in School of Latin

400.00

To Plank Walk on Terraces

150.00

To Mineralogical & Geological Specimens

100.00

Salaries of 15 Professors (at $3000 each)

$45,000.00

($1920 of this sum is paid out of the Miller fund & $6000 by the Corcoran fund)

Salaries of two adjunct Professors (Appld Chem. & Engineering)

4,000.00

Salaries of Officers

4,657.00

Advertising

500.00

Printing

140.00

Catalogues

400.00

Repairs & Improvements (In addition to special)

2,000.00

Labour

1,200.00

Contingent account

1,250.00

Library

300.00

Interest on debts & sinking fund

7,500.00

Demonstrator of Anatomy

800.00

Fuel

500.00

Gas

500.00

Commutation of rents

1,200.00

Apparatus & Material (School of Chem $150 Natl Philos. $150 Engineering $150)

350.00

Library from Corcoran Donation

1,000.00

Experimental Farm

1,000.00

To Miller Scholarships (3 scholarships)

1,000.00

Salary of Assist. Prof. Mod Languages

600.00

Plates for degrees

100.00

Additional appropriation for repairs and improvements, in case the payments from the state are actually made

1,000.00

on account of annuity for the year 1879-80.

$30,000.00

On account of interest

3,075.00

To Scholarships

$1000.00

To Prof. Page

1000.00

To Prof. Mallet

320.00

To Prof. Thornton

180.00

To Publication

75.00

To Expl Farm

1000.00

4175.00

Commissions were issued on the 5th day of May last by Governor Holliday, to date from the 29th day of February last appointing a Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, consisting of the following gentlemen, viz- Thomas S. Bocock, Holmes Conrad, John Goode, Jr., James H. Gilmore, John F. Lay, John L. Maryee, W. C. N. Randolph, A. H. H. Stuart and Paul Whitehead.

The Board met in annual session at the University on the 28th day of June 1880. Present, Messrs Goode, Gilmore, Lay, Randolph, Stuart & Whitehead. A quorum being present, on motion of Dr. Randolph Mr. Gilmore took the Chair and called the meeting to order.

The first order of business being the election of Rector, Mr. Stuart was placed in nomination for this position and unanimously elected.

On motion, Jas. D. Jones was elected Secretary of the Board.

The Standing Committees were appointed by the Rector, as follows-

Finance - Messrs Bocock, Randolph & Conrad.

Apparatus - Lay, Whitehead & Gilmore.

Grounds & Buildings - Randolph, Maryee & Gilmore.

Library - Maryee, Goode & Lay.

Miller Fund - Conrad, Whitehead & Goode.

Conduct of Schools - Randolph, Whitehead & Lay.

Examination of Va. Students - Conrad, Whitehead & Goode.

On motion the Secretary was requested to notify the Chairman of the Faculty that the Board were ready to receive the annual reports of the Chairman, Faculty &c and request the transmission of the same to the Board. The Chairman was notified accordingly and appeared before the Board and presented his Annual Report accompanied by the Report of the Faculty, School reports &c which were received and laid on the table for future consideration at the present session.

The Executive Committee of the Board appointed consisting of the Rector and Messrs Randolph & Bocock, the Rector being a member ex-officio.

On motion the Board adjourned until tomorrow morning at 9 Oclock.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present all of the members of the Board, Messrs Bocock & Conrad having arrived since the adjournment on yesterday.

The annual Report of the Faculty was on motion taken from the table and read by the Secretary to the Board, whereupon Resolved, that the General Report of the Faculty be distributed among the several Committees of the Board according as the subjects therein contained fall more appropriately within the province of one or the other of said Committees, except that the recommendations in said report on the subject of the establishment of new degrees, and the modification of those now existing be referred to a special Committee of three to be appointed by the Rector, & that said special Committee be directed to make their report to the Board on tomorrow not later than four Oclock.

The Rector appointed Messrs Goode, Whitehead & Conrad as the Committee under the foregoing resolution.

Resolved, that in future the Committee on Boarding Houses constitute one of the Standing Committees and that the Rector now appoint said Committee. Whereupon the Rector appointed as said Committee Messrs Randolph, Whitehead & Lay.

The Chairman of the Faculty forwarded to the Board the petition of a number of students, boarders of Miss Ross' complaining of their fare &c and asking relief, which was recd and read and on motion the same was referred to the Committee on Boarding Houses for its consideration and report thereon to the Board.

Resolved, that a Committee of three be appointed to confer with Prof. Fontaine and report to the Board of Visitors a plan by which the Scheme of lectures in the School of Natural History, Mineralogy & Geology shall be so modified as to permit at least two months of field work and to get from him any suggestions that he may have to make for the advancement of the usefulness of his school. The Rector appointed Messrs Bocock, Randolph & Whitehead as the Committee under the foregoing resolution.

Resolved, that the Chairman of the Faculty be requested to forward at this and each subsequent meeting of the Board of Visitors the Minutes Book of the Faculty meetings.

The Special Committee on Change of Degrees submitted their Report, which on being read and considered on motion of Mr. Goode,

Resolved, that the Faculty be requested to appoint a Committee of their body to confer with the Board at 12 M. tomorrow in regard to the proposed scheme for a change of Degrees to be conferred by the University.

On motion Major Green Peyton was unanimously elected Proctor & Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings.

Resolved, that the Secretary forthwith notify Major Peyton of his election and request him to execute his official bond in the penalty of $20,000 with good security and have the bond before the Board before its adjournment for its approval.

On motion the Board adjourned until tomorrow morning at 9 Oclock.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday. Present, all the members of the Board.

The Committee on Boarding Houses, to whom was referred on yesterday the Petition of Miss Ross' Boarders, submitted their Report as follows:

The Committee to whom was referred the questions arising under the Petition of Students with reference to a change of Boarding Houses, without a change of rooms, as was required by law- beg relave \[sic, probably leave, to report that they have given the subject careful advisement and consideration. They are satisfied that an evil exists, needing redress—;but the mode of redress is surrounded with many difficulties. In the past a similar change has been made and not attended with good result. This Petition is too respectable in point of numbers and in names to be deemed captious, or without foundation in fact. The complete remedy seems to be to grant the prayer of the Petition, but at the same time to guard against the one evil, which also seems to be the difficulty. They recommend the passage of the following resolutions, viz-

Resolved, That the petition of the Students applying for leave to change their Boarding Houses, without change of Rooms appearing to be just, & without reasonable objection- the request of the same be accorded; and that the existing laws as to Boarding Houses, be so far modified, as hereafter to permit this change, without change of rooms. Provided, 1st That in each Boarding House the Students themselves shall select a President of the Mess, with two Vice Presidents, whose duty it shall be to receive complaints, &, in their discretion, notify the Boarding House Keeper; or forward the same to the Faculty fully empowered to preserve order and decorum, & who will obligate themselves, in cases of refusal to recognize their authority, to report the offending parties to the Authorities of the University, &

Resolved 2d That it be left in the discretion of the Faculty, at any time during the Session, if satisfied that this obligation of the Students is not carried out in good faith, to take such action as they may deem advisable, to the extent of reestablishing the present system.

Resolved, (3) As the opinion of this Board that the Boarding House Keepers shall, themselves in person, or by some proper representative, preside at each meal, & bring to the notice of these selected officers of the Mess any infractions or violations of order & decorum in their dining rooms. And in this connection the Board do not hesitate to avow their belief, & express the earnest hope, that no young Gentleman will so far forget the courtesies & proprieties of the Table, as to render the presence of a Lady at her Table, an unpleasant position, to her dignity, or to her modesty.

Supplemental to above-Your Committee further report in favor of the adoption of the recommendation of the Faculty authorizing Miss Ross, to name the students to occupy the three rooms overlooking the private portion of her premises.

Jno. F. Lay.

The foregoing reports upon being read and considered by the Board on motion the same were approved and adopted together with the recommendations of the Committee.

The Committee on Grounds & Buildings submitted their Report which is as follows:

The Committee of Buildings & Grounds recommend that the Proctor be authorized to enlarge the Reservoir. That the slatted walk on the terraces be removed and a close plank walk put in its place.

The Buildings seem to be in good repair and the Grounds well kept, we would advise that the Proctor be requested to suggest some better and more sightly approach to the University than the present one.

Which on being read and considered on motion, the same was approved and adopted, together with the recommendation of the Committee.

The Committee on Apparatus submitted their Report which is as follows:

The Committee on Apparatus beg leave to report that they have, with the Courteous assistance and attention of Profs. Fontaine, Smith & Dunnington examined the Apparatus and appliances for instruction in the several departments of science including the Brooks Museum; & find everything in good condition and preserved with great care and admirable system.

The only additions to the apparatus in the School of Natural Philosophy have been constructed under the directions and supervision of the Professor. In the School of Chemistry some valuable purchases have been made as dedtailed in Professor's report; and the Prof. of the Corcoran School of Nat. History & Geology is commencing the formation of collections specially illustrating the Geology and Mineralogy of the State of Virginia. It is hoped that these may be made prominent in the Museum Collections at a comparatively early day.

Respectively submitted, Paul Whitehead, Chairman.

The Report was read & considered and on motion as approved and adopted.

The Library Committee submitted their Report which is as follows.

The Committee on the Library report that they find the books well preserved, and the cases and furniture in good condition.

The removal of the partition which cut off one of the alcoves for an office, and the filling up of the space, has increased the accomodations for books, and imposed no practical inconvenience on the Librarian. No suggestions are made by the Report of the Librarian or the Faculty calling for any action of the Board at this time as to the Library. The lists furnished of the annual additions made to the Library for each of the four past years, through the means afforded by the Corcoran fund, show how timely and wise was this special gift of Mr. Corcoran among his other munificent provisions for the University

For two or three years past the young ladies & gentlemen attending the commencement exercises have occupied the Library during some hours of each day as a dancing hall. This use of the Room, during the daytime of Commencement week, is disapproved by many of the earnest and influential friends of the University, as incongruous & unseemly, and in the opinion of your Committee tends to create injurious misconceptions as to the judgment and aims of the Authorities controlling the Institution. The Committee, while making no suggestion of objection to the grant of the use of the Room for the dance and festival on the night of the final day of Commencement, deem it proper to ask the attention of the Board as to the use of the room for dancing or other social diversions at any other time.

Mr. Lay of the Committee, desired it to be stated that he concurred in the Report, except as to the concluding statementas to that he would suggest that a limitation be prescribed of certain hours in which the room might be used for dancing.

J.L.M.

The report was read & considered and on motion was approved and adopted, and also the following resolution- viz

Resolved, That the Board disapprove of the use of the Library Room for dancing during the daytime of Commencement week, and request the Chairman of the Faculty to prohibit the same but this resolution is not intended to deny the use of the Room for the "Final Ball" under such regulations as to that privilege as the Chairman shall prescribe.

The Committee on the Conduct of Schools made their report which reads as follows.

The Committee on the Conduct of the Schools beg leave to make the following report-

In the school of Latin we recommend the appointment of an Assistant Instructor and approve the Professor's request to be allowed to establish a class for graduates and recommend that he be authorized to confer certificates on such students as have satisfactorily accomplished such work. In the report of the School of Modern Languages, Dr. Schele deplores the utter insufficient preparation in English of the Students of his class. The Prof. Hist. & Lit. says "The preparation of Students, especially in the Elementary studies of grammar, spelling, expression, geography & general information and capacity for thought seems to become more every year."

Your Committee have urged the necessity of the establishing a Chair of English in a previous report; they be leave to call attention to it again and have quoted from the two reports of modern Languages & Hist. & Lit. as evidence of the growing need of such a chair.

The Prof. of Natural Philosophy reports no students in the Class of practical physics and states the cause to be probably the makeshift character of the arrangements of room and fixtures, the inconveniences of which he deems a great bar to its usefulness and popularity. We recommend a thorough equipment for this school as soon as the finances of the University will permit.

We advise that in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty the Janitor be ordered to attend the Natural Philosophy room on Tuesdays, thursdays & Saturdays from 10 to 11 A.M.

The form of class report forwarded by the Faculty we think should be adopted, as it furnishes fully the information needed.

We advise that Mr. Charles I. Bonner whose application to be authorized to stand his examination for his degree in the Department of law be permitted to stand such examination after the termination of the session.

We recommend that the fee in the class of Practical Physics be fixed at $50 with a charge of $5 for outfit of apparatus. As advised by the Faculty we recommend that the privilege be extended to any student of the University of attending the class of surveying under the Instruction of Prof. Thornton (established by the Faculty during the last Session for Students in the School of pure Mathematics) on the payment of three dollars for use of instruments, provided Prof. Thornton be not required to form a class unless a sufficient number of applicants present themselves to justify it.

We approve of the establishment of the Degree of Bachelor of Scientific Agriculture and advise such action by the Board. And also advise the establishment of the Degrees in the School of Nat. Hist. & Geology proposed by the Faculty. Resolutions confirming the expulsions of Messrs John S. Spencer of Gallipoli, Ohio, and A. N. Towle of Mobile Ala. are herewith forwarded. We advise the confirmation of the action of the Executive Committee in approving the plan as adopted by the Faculty of so arranging the curriculum for the Medical School as to cover two full sessions. The Committee attach much importance to the suggestion and recommendation of the Faculty referring to the tendency to idleness extravigance and dissipation from the unlimited supply of pocket money to Students & the failure on the part of parents or guardians to note and act upon the information given in the monthly reports and they authorize the Faculty with the Express Sanction of this Board to issue a Circular setting forth these Acts in emphatic terms & urging the cooperation of parents & guardians in the effort to suppress them.

The report was read and considered and on motion the same was approved and adopted together with the several specific recommendations therein contained as the order of this Board.

The Committee appointed to confer with Prof. Fontaine and report a plan for so modifying a plan of lectures as to allow at least two months for field work to be performed by him during each session and also to obtain from him any farther suggestion he might have to make for promoting the usefulness of his school- reported as follows:

Your Committee found Prof. Fontaine in full accord with the Board in its earnest desire to extend and enlarge the usefulness of his school and in the belief that two months of Field work in each session would greatly tend to that end.

He thinks that it should and can be readily provided for by certain provisions which we approve and embrace in the following plan.

We recommend first that the course of Lectures in the School of Nat. Hist. & Geology be so arranged as to be concluded by the last of April. And that the Prof. employ the remainder of the session with such portion of the vacation as he may think in the field explorations in the line of his duties- that in said field duties he take with him such members of his Class as may choose to accompany him and also at his discretion persons who are not connected with the University, the latter class of persons pay for the advantage so offorded them such reasonable sum as the Faculty may prescribe

2d In order that the foregoing provision may be carried out we recommend that the subject of Botany be temporarily transferred entirely to the School of Agriculture.

3d That the Executive Committee he authorized and empowered to appropriate to the Contingent expenses of said field work such sum of money as they may think proper not to exceed $250.

4\. Your Committee, in pursuance of the suggestion of Professor Fontaine, further recommend that he be authorized and empowered to take such steps as he may deem advisable to procure specimens of ores & other mineral substances from different parts of the state so as to provide at the University as complete a view of the mineral wealth of the State as may be practicable- the said Prof. offering as an inducement for such specimens an analysis of them at the University.

5\. As a farther means of promoting the usefulness of the School of Nat. Hist. & Geology we recommend that proficiency in said school have proper consideration in determining the attainments necessary for the degree of Master of Arts.

Thos. L. Bocock

Chn Committee.

The foregoing report was read and considered & en motion, the same, with its recommendations, were approved & adopted as the order of the Board.

Resolved, that the action of the Faculty in the Expulsion of John L. Spencer of Galliopolis, Ohio, and A. N. Towle of Mobile, Alabama, be and the same is hereby confirmed.

Profs. Peters, Price & Fontaine appeared before the Board as the Committee appointed by the Faculty from their Body, in obedience to resolution of the Board on yesterday, and conferred with the Board in regard to the proposed Scheme for a change of Degrees to be conferred by the University-After such conference the Board took up and resumed consideration of the report of the Committee to which this subject was referred, & which was submitted on yesterday, and after the clear and lucid statement by Prof. Price of the views of the Faculty in regard to the proposed scheme. On motion, the report was approved and adopted, together with its recommendations, as the order of the Board which report reads as follows.

The Committee to whom was referred that portion of the Report of the Faculty, which relates to abolishing the degrees of "Bachelor of Arts", "Bachelor of Letters" and "Bachelor of Science" heretofore conferred, and the establishing of new degrees of "Bachelor of Arts" and "Doctor of Philosophy" upon the successful completion of certain courses of study therein detailed - beg leave to report that they have made special inquiry as to the occasion and ground of the Faculty's action, and having maturely considered the matter, recommend that this part of the Faculty's report be approved and carried out with the exceptions of changing the word "or" after "Natural Philosophy" into "and" and striking out "and" before the same so that the sentence shall read as follows: "First, attained distinction on the whole course taught in the Intermediate Class (or the equivalent to that, as fixed by the Faculty where no intermediate class exists) in the schools of Pure Mathematics, of Latin, of Greek, of Natural Philosophy and of Moral Philosophy".

The reasons, briefly, which sustain the proposed action are,

(1) That the degree of "A.B." heretofore existing has become practically obsolete- Very few students take it, and there are usually understood to be men who have failed in the attempt to take the Masters degree.

(2) The new degree of A.B. will probably be sought and gained by thirty or forty students every year.

(3) At the same time, it represents scholastic attainments equal to those required for such a degree in all the English speaking institutions of a University grade.

(4) It will form a foundation attained at a comparatively early part of the University course, upon which a student may stand and where he may advance in the several suggested lines of special study for the Degree of "Doctor of Philosophy" in one of the five specified "classes".

We deem it important to say that the Faculty were unanimous in this recommendation; that is- there was no dissent from its adoption as the result of many discussions and a long continued consideration of the subject; it being believed by all of the Professors that some modification was essential to the prosperity of the University.

All of which is respectfully submitted

Paul Whitehead,

John Goode,

Holmes Conrad

Resolved, That the Executive Committee are hereby instructed to hold meetings for the transaction of business confided to them, at the University on the first week of October, January and April respectively of each year.

The following communication was received from the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund, through their Secretary, Col Duke, viz-

At a meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund of the University of Va., the following resolution was adopted-

Resolved, That this Board feels itself constrained to declare its conviction that, so far, the Agricultural School of the University of Virginia has fallen far short of the purposes of its beneficent Donor, and of the legitimate hopes and expectations of its friends, and that without some marked change, within the next twelve months, both in the material results, and in the number of Students attending the said School this Board will feel itself obliged (to the extent of its legitimate authority) and in cooperation with the Board of Visitors of the University of Va.) to make a radical change in the whole management to the end that the original purpose of the School may be accomplished.

Resolved, that the Secretary be instructed to send a copy of the above Resolution to the Board of Visitors of the University of Va.

On motion, resolved that the foregoing communication be spread on the minutes of this Board.

The following communication was received from the Tiustees of the Miller Fund through their Secretary, viz-

Resolved, That the Trustees of the Miller Fund appropriate $1000 to the establishment of three Agricultural Scholarships with $333 each.

2\. That one of these scholarships shall be a post graduate scholarship on the plan recommended by the Committee of the Faculty to be awarded on competitive examination at the close of the session.

3\. That in order to induce young men to enter the School of Agriculture the other two Scholarships shall be open to general competition.

4\. That Profs. Page, Mallet & Thornton be requested to define the scope of the examinations mentioned in the 3d Clause and further to hold the examinations and make the award at their convenience before the beginning of the session. Which on being read and considered by this Board, On motion the following resolution was adopted, (Messrs Bocock & Randolph only voting in the negative):

Resolved, that this Board hereby accept the action of the Trustees of the "Miller Fund" in 1879, establishing three Agricultural Scholarships; and that the Faculty are hereby directed to give effect to the resolutions of the Miller Trustees

On motion, Resolved, That the present incumbent, Dr. J. F. Harrison be reelected Chairman of the Faculty adopted by unanimous vote.

The Finance Committee submitted the following report in writing, viz

The Committee to whom was referred so much of the Report of the Faculty as relates to the Finances of the University beg leave to report.

1\. That there have been no payments from the State Treasury to the University, for the session of 1879-80, either on account of the regular annuity, or of interest on the Corcoran fund, and from this omission a deficit has resulted which it is important now to supply, to meet the appropriations for Professors Salaries due on 1 July and for other purposes.

The Committee recommend that temporary loan be effected, and herewith report a resolution to that end.

2.That the Proctor should be required to furnish, in his future Reports to the Board of Visitors, more detailed information, as to the dates and amounts of his disbursements, especially in the payment of the Salaries to Professors and Officers of the University, and also as to the Securities in which the sinking fund is invested.

3\. Additional appropriations are recommended as follows-

4\. The following estimates of Expence for the ensuing year are reported, and appropriations to meet the same recommended:

Thos. L. Bocock, Chmn

The foregoing report was read and considered and on motion, Resolved, that the same be approved and adopted as an order of the Board.

It appearing from the Reports of the Faculty and of the Proctor, that there is now due from the State to the University,

And that the failure of the Treasurer to pay this amount has occasioned a deficit which it is important to supply for the payment of Professors salaries and for other purposes, it is accordingly, Resolved,

That the Pr and is hereby authorized and empowered to be credit of the University, an amount not to exceed $30,000. to be applied by him to the payment, first- of the Professors salaries, and then to the other purposes indicated in the Report of the Proctor and to none other and the Proctor is directed to repay the amount so borrowed, out of any funds that may hereafter come into his hands-

On the recommendation of the Committee on the Miller Fund, On motion,

Resolved, That the amount appropriated to the University by the Miller Board be applied as follows, viz

On motion the Board adjourned till tomorrow morning at 10 Oclock.

Jas D. Jones Secretary

Alex. H. H. Stuart Rector

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present, all the members of the board, with the exception of Mr. Gilmore who had left for home.

Whereas the Miller Board of Trustees have agreed to depart from their own construction of the Scholarship rule in the Agricultural School as laid down by them, and under the peculiar circumstances attending the case of Mr. Frank Hampton of the University of Va. who had applied for a Scholarship and had successfully passed the required examination.

Resolved, That the Board of Visitors, without committing themselves to the construction as claimed, but consenting that this case shall not be used as a precedent, do order (that Miller Board consenting as they have done) that Mr. Hampton shall take the scholarship- he having passed the necessary examination.

Resolved, that the Faculty be directed, in carrying out the action of this Board respecting the "Miller Scholarship" had on yesterday, to subject applicants to the ordinary examination required of all students desiring to matriculate in the Schools of the University, and that in advertising for such competitive examination, the exact language of the resolution of the Miller Trustees shall be followed.

Resolved, that the Hon. T. L. Bocock be requested and authorized to prepare and forward letters of thanks to Mr. Corcoran, Mr. Vanderbilt & other persons, contributors. to the University and to furnish copies of the same to the Secretary of this Board for record.

Major Green Peyton laid before the Board his Official Bond as Proctor &c, on motion Resolved, That the official Bond tendered by Green Peyton with S. V. Southall as surety be approved and accepted and spread upon the record which Bond reads as follows:

Know all men by these presents that, we, Green Peyton and S. V. Southall are held and firmly bound unto the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and their successors in office, in the sum of Twenty Thousand Dollars, lawful money of the United States, to be paid to the said Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and their successors in office; for the payment whereof well and truly to be made, we bind ourselves jointly and severally, firmly by these presents. Sealed with our seals and dated the 29th day of June in the year One thousand Eight hundred and Eighty. The condition of the above Obligation is such that, whereas the above bound Green Peyton has been duly elected Proctor and Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings of the University of Virginia: Now therefore if the above bound Green Peyton shall well and truly and faithfully discharge and perform all the duties devolved upon him as such officer, then the foregoing obligation shall be void, otherwise to remain in full force and virtue.

Resolved, that the Board of Visitors do hereby appropriate Eight hundred dollars to improve the Road between the University and Charlottesville, provided the county of Albemarle will appropriate two thousand dollars and the town of Charlottesville Eight hundred dollars for the same purpose. The Proctor is directed to represent the Board of Visitors in the expenditure of this sum and is charged with the duty of supervising the expenditure.

On motion W. J. Bingham Esqr. was unanimously elected Assistant Instructor in the School of Latin.

On motion the Board adjourned Sine die.

Commissions were issued on the 5th day of May last by Governor Holliday, to date from the 29th day of February last appointing a Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, consisting of the following gentlemen, viz- Thomas S. Bocock, Holmes Conrad, John Goode, Jr., James H. Gilmore, John F. Lay, John L. Maryee, W. C. N. Randolph, A. H. H. Stuart and Paul Whitehead.

The Board met in annual session at the University on the 28th day of June 1880. Present, Messrs Goode, Gilmore, Lay, Randolph, Stuart & Whitehead. A quorum being present, on motion of Dr. Randolph Mr. Gilmore took the Chair and called the meeting to order.

The first order of business being the election of Rector, Mr. Stuart was placed in nomination for this position and unanimously elected.

On motion, Jas. D. Jones was elected Secretary of the Board.

The Standing Committees were appointed by the Rector, as follows-

Finance - Messrs Bocock, Randolph & Conrad.

Apparatus - Lay, Whitehead & Gilmore.

Grounds & Buildings - Randolph, Maryee & Gilmore.

Library - Maryee, Goode & Lay.

Miller Fund - Conrad, Whitehead & Goode.

Conduct of Schools - Randolph, Whitehead & Lay.

Examination of Va. Students - Conrad, Whitehead & Goode.

On motion the Secretary was requested to notify the Chairman of the Faculty that the Board were ready to receive the annual reports of the Chairman, Faculty &c and request the transmission of the same to the Board. The Chairman was notified accordingly and appeared before the Board and presented his Annual Report accompanied by the Report of the Faculty, School reports &c which were received and laid on the table for future consideration at the present session.

The Executive Committee of the Board appointed consisting of the Rector and Messrs Randolph & Bocock, the Rector being a member ex-officio.

On motion the Board adjourned until tomorrow morning at 9 Oclock.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present all of the members of the Board, Messrs Bocock & Conrad having arrived since the adjournment on yesterday.

The annual Report of the Faculty was on motion taken from the table and read by the Secretary to the Board, whereupon Resolved, that the General Report of the Faculty be distributed among the several Committees of the Board according as the subjects therein contained fall more appropriately within the province of one or the other of said Committees, except that the recommendations in said report on the subject of the establishment of new degrees, and the modification of those now existing be referred to a special Committee of three to be appointed by the Rector, & that said special Committee be directed to make their report to the Board on tomorrow not later than four Oclock.

The Rector appointed Messrs Goode, Whitehead & Conrad as the Committee under the foregoing resolution.

Resolved, that in future the Committee on Boarding Houses constitute one of the Standing Committees and that the Rector now appoint said Committee. Whereupon the Rector appointed as said Committee Messrs Randolph, Whitehead & Lay.

The Chairman of the Faculty forwarded to the Board the petition of a number of students, boarders of Miss Ross' complaining of their fare &c and asking relief, which was recd and read and on motion the same was referred to the Committee on Boarding Houses for its consideration and report thereon to the Board.

Resolved, that a Committee of three be appointed to confer with Prof. Fontaine and report to the Board of Visitors a plan by which the Scheme of lectures in the School of Natural History, Mineralogy & Geology shall be so modified as to permit at least two months of field work and to get from him any suggestions that he may have to make for the advancement of the usefulness of his school. The Rector appointed Messrs Bocock, Randolph & Whitehead as the Committee under the foregoing resolution.

Resolved, that the Chairman of the Faculty be requested to forward at this and each subsequent meeting of the Board of Visitors the Minutes Book of the Faculty meetings.

The Special Committee on Change of Degrees submitted their Report, which on being read and considered on motion of Mr. Goode,

Resolved, that the Faculty be requested to appoint a Committee of their body to confer with the Board at 12 M. tomorrow in regard to the proposed scheme for a change of Degrees to be conferred by the University.

On motion Major Green Peyton was unanimously elected Proctor & Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings.

Resolved, that the Secretary forthwith notify Major Peyton of his election and request him to execute his official bond in the penalty of $20,000 with good security and have the bond before the Board before its adjournment for its approval.

On motion the Board adjourned until tomorrow morning at 9 Oclock.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday. Present, all the members of the Board.

The Committee on Boarding Houses, to whom was referred on yesterday the Petition of Miss Ross' Boarders, submitted their Report as follows:

The Committee to whom was referred the questions arising under the Petition of Students with reference to a change of Boarding Houses, without a change of rooms, as was required by law- beg relave \[sic, probably leave, to report that they have given the subject careful advisement and consideration. They are satisfied that an evil exists, needing redress—;but the mode of redress is surrounded with many difficulties. In the past a similar change has been made and not attended with good result. This Petition is too respectable in point of numbers and in names to be deemed captious, or without foundation in fact. The complete remedy seems to be to grant the prayer of the Petition, but at the same time to guard against the one evil, which also seems to be the difficulty. They recommend the passage of the following resolutions, viz-

Resolved, That the petition of the Students applying for leave to change their Boarding Houses, without change of Rooms appearing to be just, & without reasonable objection- the request of the same be accorded; and that the existing laws as to Boarding Houses, be so far modified, as hereafter to permit this change, without change of rooms. Provided, 1st That in each Boarding House the Students themselves shall select a President of the Mess, with two Vice Presidents, whose duty it shall be to receive complaints, &, in their discretion, notify the Boarding House Keeper; or forward the same to the Faculty fully empowered to preserve order and decorum, & who will obligate themselves, in cases of refusal to recognize their authority, to report the offending parties to the Authorities of the University, &

Resolved 2d That it be left in the discretion of the Faculty, at any time during the Session, if satisfied that this obligation of the Students is not carried out in good faith, to take such action as they may deem advisable, to the extent of reestablishing the present system.

Resolved, (3) As the opinion of this Board that the Boarding House Keepers shall, themselves in person, or by some proper representative, preside at each meal, & bring to the notice of these selected officers of the Mess any infractions or violations of order & decorum in their dining rooms. And in this connection the Board do not hesitate to avow their belief, & express the earnest hope, that no young Gentleman will so far forget the courtesies & proprieties of the Table, as to render the presence of a Lady at her Table, an unpleasant position, to her dignity, or to her modesty.

The Committee of Buildings & Grounds recommend that the Proctor be authorized to enlarge the Reservoir. That the slatted walk on the terraces be removed and a close plank walk put in its place.

The Buildings seem to be in good repair and the Grounds well kept, we would advise that the Proctor be requested to suggest some better and more sightly approach to the University than the present one.

The Committee on the Library report that they find the books well preserved, and the cases and furniture in good condition.

The removal of the partition which cut off one of the alcoves for an office, and the filling up of the space, has increased the accomodations for books, and imposed no practical inconvenience on the Librarian. No suggestions are made by the Report of the Librarian or the Faculty calling for any action of the Board at this time as to the Library. The lists furnished of the annual additions made to the Library for each of the four past years, through the means afforded by the Corcoran fund, show how timely and wise was this special gift of Mr. Corcoran among his other munificent provisions for the University

For two or three years past the young ladies & gentlemen attending the commencement exercises have occupied the Library during some hours of each day as a dancing hall. This use of the Room, during the daytime of Commencement week, is disapproved by many of the earnest and influential friends of the University, as incongruous & unseemly, and in the opinion of your Committee tends to create injurious misconceptions as to the judgment and aims of the Authorities controlling the Institution. The Committee, while making no suggestion of objection to the grant of the use of the Room for the dance and festival on the night of the final day of Commencement, deem it proper to ask the attention of the Board as to the use of the room for dancing or other social diversions at any other time.

The Committee on the Conduct of the Schools beg leave to make the following report-

In the school of Latin we recommend the appointment of an Assistant Instructor and approve the Professor's request to be allowed to establish a class for graduates and recommend that he be authorized to confer certificates on such students as have satisfactorily accomplished such work. In the report of the School of Modern Languages, Dr. Schele deplores the utter insufficient preparation in English of the Students of his class. The Prof. Hist. & Lit. says "The preparation of Students, especially in the Elementary studies of grammar, spelling, expression, geography & general information and capacity for thought seems to become more every year."

Your Committee have urged the necessity of the establishing a Chair of English in a previous report; they be leave to call attention to it again and have quoted from the two reports of modern Languages & Hist. & Lit. as evidence of the growing need of such a chair.

The Prof. of Natural Philosophy reports no students in the Class of practical physics and states the cause to be probably the makeshift character of the arrangements of room and fixtures, the inconveniences of which he deems a great bar to its usefulness and popularity. We recommend a thorough equipment for this school as soon as the finances of the University will permit.

We advise that in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty the Janitor be ordered to attend the Natural Philosophy room on Tuesdays, thursdays & Saturdays from 10 to 11 A.M.

The form of class report forwarded by the Faculty we think should be adopted, as it furnishes fully the information needed.

We advise that Mr. Charles I. Bonner whose application to be authorized to stand his examination for his degree in the Department of law be permitted to stand such examination after the termination of the session.

We recommend that the fee in the class of Practical Physics be fixed at $50 with a charge of $5 for outfit of apparatus. As advised by the Faculty we recommend that the privilege be extended to any student of the University of attending the class of surveying under the Instruction of Prof. Thornton (established by the Faculty during the last Session for Students in the School of pure Mathematics) on the payment of three dollars for use of instruments, provided Prof. Thornton be not required to form a class unless a sufficient number of applicants present themselves to justify it.

We approve of the establishment of the Degree of Bachelor of Scientific Agriculture and advise such action by the Board. And also advise the establishment of the Degrees in the School of Nat. Hist. & Geology proposed by the Faculty. Resolutions confirming the expulsions of Messrs John S. Spencer of Gallipoli, Ohio, and A. N. Towle of Mobile Ala. are herewith forwarded. We advise the confirmation of the action of the Executive Committee in approving the plan as adopted by the Faculty of so arranging the curriculum for the Medical School as to cover two full sessions. The Committee attach much importance to the suggestion and recommendation of the Faculty referring to the tendency to idleness extravigance and dissipation from the unlimited supply of pocket money to Students & the failure on the part of parents or guardians to note and act upon the information given in the monthly reports and they authorize the Faculty with the Express Sanction of this Board to issue a Circular setting forth these Acts in emphatic terms & urging the cooperation of parents & guardians in the effort to suppress them.

At a meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund of the University of Va., the following resolution was adopted-

Resolved, That this Board feels itself constrained to declare its conviction that, so far, the Agricultural School of the University of Virginia has fallen far short of the purposes of its beneficent Donor, and of the legitimate hopes and expectations of its friends, and that without some marked change, within the next twelve months, both in the material results, and in the number of Students attending the said School this Board will feel itself obliged (to the extent of its legitimate authority) and in cooperation with the Board of Visitors of the University of Va.) to make a radical change in the whole management to the end that the original purpose of the School may be accomplished.

Resolved, that the Secretary be instructed to send a copy of the above Resolution to the Board of Visitors of the University of Va.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present, all the members of the board, with the exception of Mr. Gilmore who had left for home.

Whereas the Miller Board of Trustees have agreed to depart from their own construction of the Scholarship rule in the Agricultural School as laid down by them, and under the peculiar circumstances attending the case of Mr. Frank Hampton of the University of Va. who had applied for a Scholarship and had successfully passed the required examination.

Resolved, That the Board of Visitors, without committing themselves to the construction as claimed, but consenting that this case shall not be used as a precedent, do order (that Miller Board consenting as they have done) that Mr. Hampton shall take the scholarship- he having passed the necessary examination.

Resolved, that the Faculty be directed, in carrying out the action of this Board respecting the "Miller Scholarship" had on yesterday, to subject applicants to the ordinary examination required of all students desiring to matriculate in the Schools of the University, and that in advertising for such competitive examination, the exact language of the resolution of the Miller Trustees shall be followed.

Resolved, that the Hon. T. L. Bocock be requested and authorized to prepare and forward letters of thanks to Mr. Corcoran, Mr. Vanderbilt & other persons, contributors. to the University and to furnish copies of the same to the Secretary of this Board for record.

Major Green Peyton laid before the Board his Official Bond as Proctor &c, on motion Resolved, That the official Bond tendered by Green Peyton with S. V. Southall as surety be approved and accepted and spread upon the record which Bond reads as follows:

Know all men by these presents that, we, Green Peyton and S. V. Southall are held and firmly bound unto the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and their successors in office, in the sum of Twenty Thousand Dollars, lawful money of the United States, to be paid to the said Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and their successors in office; for the payment whereof well and truly to be made, we bind ourselves jointly and severally, firmly by these presents. Sealed with our seals and dated the 29th day of June in the year One thousand Eight hundred and Eighty. The condition of the above Obligation is such that, whereas the above bound Green Peyton has been duly elected Proctor and Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings of the University of Virginia: Now therefore if the above bound Green Peyton shall well and truly and faithfully discharge and perform all the duties devolved upon him as such officer, then the foregoing obligation shall be void, otherwise to remain in full force and virtue.

Commissions were issued on the 5th day of May last by Governor Holliday, to date from the 29th day of February last appointing a Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, consisting of the following gentlemen, viz- Thomas S. Bocock, Holmes Conrad, John Goode, Jr., James H. Gilmore, John F. Lay, John L. Maryee, W. C. N. Randolph, A. H. H. Stuart and Paul Whitehead.

The Board met in annual session at the University on the 28th day of June 1880. Present, Messrs Goode, Gilmore, Lay, Randolph, Stuart & Whitehead. A quorum being present, on motion of Dr. Randolph Mr. Gilmore took the Chair and called the meeting to order.

The first order of business being the election of Rector, Mr. Stuart was placed in nomination for this position and unanimously elected.

On motion, Jas. D. Jones was elected Secretary of the Board.

The Standing Committees were appointed by the Rector, as follows-

Finance - Messrs Bocock, Randolph & Conrad.

Apparatus - Lay, Whitehead & Gilmore.

Grounds & Buildings - Randolph, Maryee & Gilmore.

Library - Maryee, Goode & Lay.

Miller Fund - Conrad, Whitehead & Goode.

Conduct of Schools - Randolph, Whitehead & Lay.

Examination of Va. Students - Conrad, Whitehead & Goode.

On motion the Secretary was requested to notify the Chairman of the Faculty that the Board were ready to receive the annual reports of the Chairman, Faculty &c and request the transmission of the same to the Board. The Chairman was notified accordingly and appeared before the Board and presented his Annual Report accompanied by the Report of the Faculty, School reports &c which were received and laid on the table for future consideration at the present session.

The Executive Committee of the Board appointed consisting of the Rector and Messrs Randolph & Bocock, the Rector being a member ex-officio.

On motion the Board adjourned until tomorrow morning at 9 Oclock.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present all of the members of the Board, Messrs Bocock & Conrad having arrived since the adjournment on yesterday.

The annual Report of the Faculty was on motion taken from the table and read by the Secretary to the Board, whereupon Resolved, that the General Report of the Faculty be distributed among the several Committees of the Board according as the subjects therein contained fall more appropriately within the province of one or the other of said Committees, except that the recommendations in said report on the subject of the establishment of new degrees, and the modification of those now existing be referred to a special Committee of three to be appointed by the Rector, & that said special Committee be directed to make their report to the Board on tomorrow not later than four Oclock.

The Rector appointed Messrs Goode, Whitehead & Conrad as the Committee under the foregoing resolution.

Resolved, that in future the Committee on Boarding Houses constitute one of the Standing Committees and that the Rector now appoint said Committee. Whereupon the Rector appointed as said Committee Messrs Randolph, Whitehead & Lay.

The Chairman of the Faculty forwarded to the Board the petition of a number of students, boarders of Miss Ross' complaining of their fare &c and asking relief, which was recd and read and on motion the same was referred to the Committee on Boarding Houses for its consideration and report thereon to the Board.

Resolved, that a Committee of three be appointed to confer with Prof. Fontaine and report to the Board of Visitors a plan by which the Scheme of lectures in the School of Natural History, Mineralogy & Geology shall be so modified as to permit at least two months of field work and to get from him any suggestions that he may have to make for the advancement of the usefulness of his school. The Rector appointed Messrs Bocock, Randolph & Whitehead as the Committee under the foregoing resolution.

Resolved, that the Chairman of the Faculty be requested to forward at this and each subsequent meeting of the Board of Visitors the Minutes Book of the Faculty meetings.

The Special Committee on Change of Degrees submitted their Report, which on being read and considered on motion of Mr. Goode,

Resolved, that the Faculty be requested to appoint a Committee of their body to confer with the Board at 12 M. tomorrow in regard to the proposed scheme for a change of Degrees to be conferred by the University.

On motion Major Green Peyton was unanimously elected Proctor & Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings.

Resolved, that the Secretary forthwith notify Major Peyton of his election and request him to execute his official bond in the penalty of $20,000 with good security and have the bond before the Board before its adjournment for its approval.

On motion the Board adjourned until tomorrow morning at 9 Oclock.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday. Present, all the members of the Board.

The Committee on Boarding Houses, to whom was referred on yesterday the Petition of Miss Ross' Boarders, submitted their Report as follows:

The Committee to whom was referred the questions arising under the Petition of Students with reference to a change of Boarding Houses, without a change of rooms, as was required by law- beg relave \[sic, probably leave, to report that they have given the subject careful advisement and consideration. They are satisfied that an evil exists, needing redress—;but the mode of redress is surrounded with many difficulties. In the past a similar change has been made and not attended with good result. This Petition is too respectable in point of numbers and in names to be deemed captious, or without foundation in fact. The complete remedy seems to be to grant the prayer of the Petition, but at the same time to guard against the one evil, which also seems to be the difficulty. They recommend the passage of the following resolutions, viz-

Resolved, That the petition of the Students applying for leave to change their Boarding Houses, without change of Rooms appearing to be just, & without reasonable objection- the request of the same be accorded; and that the existing laws as to Boarding Houses, be so far modified, as hereafter to permit this change, without change of rooms. Provided, 1st That in each Boarding House the Students themselves shall select a President of the Mess, with two Vice Presidents, whose duty it shall be to receive complaints, &, in their discretion, notify the Boarding House Keeper; or forward the same to the Faculty fully empowered to preserve order and decorum, & who will obligate themselves, in cases of refusal to recognize their authority, to report the offending parties to the Authorities of the University, &

Resolved 2d That it be left in the discretion of the Faculty, at any time during the Session, if satisfied that this obligation of the Students is not carried out in good faith, to take such action as they may deem advisable, to the extent of reestablishing the present system.

Resolved, (3) As the opinion of this Board that the Boarding House Keepers shall, themselves in person, or by some proper representative, preside at each meal, & bring to the notice of these selected officers of the Mess any infractions or violations of order & decorum in their dining rooms. And in this connection the Board do not hesitate to avow their belief, & express the earnest hope, that no young Gentleman will so far forget the courtesies & proprieties of the Table, as to render the presence of a Lady at her Table, an unpleasant position, to her dignity, or to her modesty.

The Committee of Buildings & Grounds recommend that the Proctor be authorized to enlarge the Reservoir. That the slatted walk on the terraces be removed and a close plank walk put in its place.

The Buildings seem to be in good repair and the Grounds well kept, we would advise that the Proctor be requested to suggest some better and more sightly approach to the University than the present one.

The Committee on the Library report that they find the books well preserved, and the cases and furniture in good condition.

The removal of the partition which cut off one of the alcoves for an office, and the filling up of the space, has increased the accomodations for books, and imposed no practical inconvenience on the Librarian. No suggestions are made by the Report of the Librarian or the Faculty calling for any action of the Board at this time as to the Library. The lists furnished of the annual additions made to the Library for each of the four past years, through the means afforded by the Corcoran fund, show how timely and wise was this special gift of Mr. Corcoran among his other munificent provisions for the University

For two or three years past the young ladies & gentlemen attending the commencement exercises have occupied the Library during some hours of each day as a dancing hall. This use of the Room, during the daytime of Commencement week, is disapproved by many of the earnest and influential friends of the University, as incongruous & unseemly, and in the opinion of your Committee tends to create injurious misconceptions as to the judgment and aims of the Authorities controlling the Institution. The Committee, while making no suggestion of objection to the grant of the use of the Room for the dance and festival on the night of the final day of Commencement, deem it proper to ask the attention of the Board as to the use of the room for dancing or other social diversions at any other time.

The Committee on the Conduct of the Schools beg leave to make the following report-

In the school of Latin we recommend the appointment of an Assistant Instructor and approve the Professor's request to be allowed to establish a class for graduates and recommend that he be authorized to confer certificates on such students as have satisfactorily accomplished such work. In the report of the School of Modern Languages, Dr. Schele deplores the utter insufficient preparation in English of the Students of his class. The Prof. Hist. & Lit. says "The preparation of Students, especially in the Elementary studies of grammar, spelling, expression, geography & general information and capacity for thought seems to become more every year."

Your Committee have urged the necessity of the establishing a Chair of English in a previous report; they be leave to call attention to it again and have quoted from the two reports of modern Languages & Hist. & Lit. as evidence of the growing need of such a chair.

The Prof. of Natural Philosophy reports no students in the Class of practical physics and states the cause to be probably the makeshift character of the arrangements of room and fixtures, the inconveniences of which he deems a great bar to its usefulness and popularity. We recommend a thorough equipment for this school as soon as the finances of the University will permit.

We advise that in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty the Janitor be ordered to attend the Natural Philosophy room on Tuesdays, thursdays & Saturdays from 10 to 11 A.M.

The form of class report forwarded by the Faculty we think should be adopted, as it furnishes fully the information needed.

We advise that Mr. Charles I. Bonner whose application to be authorized to stand his examination for his degree in the Department of law be permitted to stand such examination after the termination of the session.

We recommend that the fee in the class of Practical Physics be fixed at $50 with a charge of $5 for outfit of apparatus. As advised by the Faculty we recommend that the privilege be extended to any student of the University of attending the class of surveying under the Instruction of Prof. Thornton (established by the Faculty during the last Session for Students in the School of pure Mathematics) on the payment of three dollars for use of instruments, provided Prof. Thornton be not required to form a class unless a sufficient number of applicants present themselves to justify it.

We approve of the establishment of the Degree of Bachelor of Scientific Agriculture and advise such action by the Board. And also advise the establishment of the Degrees in the School of Nat. Hist. & Geology proposed by the Faculty. Resolutions confirming the expulsions of Messrs John S. Spencer of Gallipoli, Ohio, and A. N. Towle of Mobile Ala. are herewith forwarded. We advise the confirmation of the action of the Executive Committee in approving the plan as adopted by the Faculty of so arranging the curriculum for the Medical School as to cover two full sessions. The Committee attach much importance to the suggestion and recommendation of the Faculty referring to the tendency to idleness extravigance and dissipation from the unlimited supply of pocket money to Students & the failure on the part of parents or guardians to note and act upon the information given in the monthly reports and they authorize the Faculty with the Express Sanction of this Board to issue a Circular setting forth these Acts in emphatic terms & urging the cooperation of parents & guardians in the effort to suppress them.

At a meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund of the University of Va., the following resolution was adopted-

Resolved, That this Board feels itself constrained to declare its conviction that, so far, the Agricultural School of the University of Virginia has fallen far short of the purposes of its beneficent Donor, and of the legitimate hopes and expectations of its friends, and that without some marked change, within the next twelve months, both in the material results, and in the number of Students attending the said School this Board will feel itself obliged (to the extent of its legitimate authority) and in cooperation with the Board of Visitors of the University of Va.) to make a radical change in the whole management to the end that the original purpose of the School may be accomplished.

Resolved, that the Secretary be instructed to send a copy of the above Resolution to the Board of Visitors of the University of Va.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present, all the members of the board, with the exception of Mr. Gilmore who had left for home.

Whereas the Miller Board of Trustees have agreed to depart from their own construction of the Scholarship rule in the Agricultural School as laid down by them, and under the peculiar circumstances attending the case of Mr. Frank Hampton of the University of Va. who had applied for a Scholarship and had successfully passed the required examination.

Resolved, That the Board of Visitors, without committing themselves to the construction as claimed, but consenting that this case shall not be used as a precedent, do order (that Miller Board consenting as they have done) that Mr. Hampton shall take the scholarship- he having passed the necessary examination.

Resolved, that the Faculty be directed, in carrying out the action of this Board respecting the "Miller Scholarship" had on yesterday, to subject applicants to the ordinary examination required of all students desiring to matriculate in the Schools of the University, and that in advertising for such competitive examination, the exact language of the resolution of the Miller Trustees shall be followed.

Resolved, that the Hon. T. L. Bocock be requested and authorized to prepare and forward letters of thanks to Mr. Corcoran, Mr. Vanderbilt & other persons, contributors. to the University and to furnish copies of the same to the Secretary of this Board for record.

Major Green Peyton laid before the Board his Official Bond as Proctor &c, on motion Resolved, That the official Bond tendered by Green Peyton with S. V. Southall as surety be approved and accepted and spread upon the record which Bond reads as follows:

Know all men by these presents that, we, Green Peyton and S. V. Southall are held and firmly bound unto the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and their successors in office, in the sum of Twenty Thousand Dollars, lawful money of the United States, to be paid to the said Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and their successors in office; for the payment whereof well and truly to be made, we bind ourselves jointly and severally, firmly by these presents. Sealed with our seals and dated the 29th day of June in the year One thousand Eight hundred and Eighty. The condition of the above Obligation is such that, whereas the above bound Green Peyton has been duly elected Proctor and Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings of the University of Virginia: Now therefore if the above bound Green Peyton shall well and truly and faithfully discharge and perform all the duties devolved upon him as such officer, then the foregoing obligation shall be void, otherwise to remain in full force and virtue.