Board of Visitors minutes (1881) June 27, 1881
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 27, 1881

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

30 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Professorship (various subscribers)

$50,000.00

Working Fund (Mr. Vanderbilt's gift)

$25,000.00

15 Professors at $3,000 each

$45,000.00

2 Adjunct Professors at $2,000

4,000.

Demonstrator of Anatomy

800.

Asst. Prof. Mod. Languages

600.

Asst. Prof. Latin

400.

Asst. Prof. Greek

400.

Asst. Prof. Mathematics

400.

Officers

4,750.

Commutation of rents

1,200.

Apparatus, Material - School of Chemistry

150.

Apparatus, Material - School of Nat: Philosophy

150.

Apparatus, Material - School of Nat: Hist.& Geology

100.

Apparatus, Material - School of Anatomy

100.

Apparatus, Material - School of Engineering

50.

Physical Laboratory

250.

Physical Instruments

250.

Chemical Balance

75.

Library

300.

Diplomas

350.

Plates for Diplomas

200.

Advertising

650.

Catalogues

500.

Printing

200.

Janitor of Museum

180.

Messenger for Chairman

120.

Increase of Janitors wages

100.

Labour

1,200.

Fuel

500.

Gas

500.

Repairs & Improvements

3,000.

Contingent Account

1,250.

Sinking fund

1,000.

Ints. on debt & Sinking fund

7,500.

Reservoir

300.

Terrace

150.

University Avenue

500.

Agricultural Dept. Salaries of Professors

3,550.

Experimental Farm

1,000.

Special apparatus as asked for in Prof. Page's Report.

450.

The Board of Visitors met in annual session at the University this day. Present: Alex. H. H. Stuart, Rector, John Goode, Jr., W. C. N. Randolph, Jno. L. Marye & John F. Lay:

Jas. D. Jones, the Secretary of the Board, being too unwell to attend, C. D. Fishburne was appointed Secretary, pro tem and a quorum being present, on motion it was resolved that the Secretary shall notify the Faculty that the Board is in session and ready to consider any communication from the Chn. of the Faculty.

Pursuant to the last resolution, Dr. Jas. F. Harrison Chairman of the Faculty, being notified appeared in person and presented reports. He presented also a petition from a committee of Students requesting the use of the Library for the morning "Germans" during the Commencement week, whereupon, on motion of Mr. Lay:

Resolved that the action of the Board in June 1880 denying to the students the use of the Library for the "German" during the Commencement week (see page 70) be rescinded and Dr. Harrison, being present, was requested to inform the students of this action.

The Rector read to the Board the following letter which on motion was ordered to be spread on the Records and is as follows:

I have regretted that I was not able to attend the late meeting of the Mining Engineers in Staunton, as besides the interest of the occasion to which you kindly lent your aid, and the opportunity of seeing you, one of the very few survivors of my old Wm. & Mary Comrades & friends, I should have had the pleasure of speaking to you of University affairs & especially about the work which Prof. Fontaine is doing for the credit of his Department.

Until my visit to the Univy last April I had not known Prof. Fontaine personally, though somewhat cognizant of his scientific work, through his published papers & my correspondence with him, all of which had impressed me most favorably. From my intercourse with him on that occasion & the exhibition he made to me of the results of his more recent scientific labours, I was more than confirmed in the high opinion I had previously formed of his solid abilities as a scientific worker & I became more than ever assured of the benefits which his labours would confer upon his Department & upon the community.

Prof. Fontaine's extreme modesty & retiring habits might perhaps lead a stranger to a false impression as to his merits; but no one interested in his pursuits could hold conversation with him, without recognizing the quiet enthusiasm & the true spirit of the Naturalist.

In examining the extensive work on the fossil plants &c of the Virginia Mesozoic Rock (the middle & upper Secondary of My Reports) which he kindly submitted to my inspection, I was greatly impressed by the critical nicety of his observations and the beauty & faithfulness of his drawings of the objects, described, a large number of which are of his own discovery. I am sure that this forthcoming memoir while adding to the reputation he already acquired in this Department of Geology will reflect credit on the University.

From all that I have seen I feel persuaded that with due encouragement his department is destined to secure increasing favour with the students & with the public, & to vindicate more & more the wisdom of its establishment in the University.

With Kindest remembrances, believe me dear Sir.

To Honl. A. H. H. Stuart

A letter was read from Prof. F. H. Smith requesting permission to extend his absence from the Uy. on a visit to Europe till the 20 Octo. next: whereupon, on motion:

The Board cordially extends to Prof. Smith a leave of absence till 20 October 1881.

The Report of the Chm of Faculty is as follows:

Herewith I respectfully transmit reports &c as follows, viz:

1\. Faculty Report.

2\. Proctor's Reports.

3\. Report of Commissioner of accounts.

4\. Report of Prof. of the School of Geology &c.

5\. Report of the Infirmary Board.

6\. Librarian's Report.

7\. Report of Prof. of School of Genl & Industrial Chemistry.

8\. Report of Adjt. Prof. Thornton (Agricultural Dept.)

9\. Report of Prof. Mallett (Agricultural Dept.)

Letters of Prof. F. H. Smith,

A. M. Stone

Tables of salaries.

It is gratifying to report that the discipline of the University has been good. The students, as a rule, have been studious: and an excellent condition of health has prevailed among them: Some dissatisfaction has been expressed by a large number of them on the ground of their not being able to enjoy the privileges of changing, at least at the end of a quarter, from one boarding house to another, owing to the fact that such change renders it necessary for them to make an entire removal of their furniture, etc. after having gone to some expence, and having taken in many cases, a good deal of pains to make their rooms neat and comfortable for the session: and further they say that inasmuch as all the rooms are occupied and most of them have been fitted up as stated above, for the term, they are virtually deprived of the privilege to change their place of boarding under the existing rule. I would respectfully ask if the Secretary to the Faculty, a position now held by the Asst Librarian - is entitled to compensation? There was an allowance of four hundred Dollars, some years since, for the duties of the position.

The Report of the Infirmary Board dated 22 June 1881 signed by Drs. Cabell, Davis, & Harrison, shows receipts for fiscal year ending 31 May 1881 $2881.95 and expenditures $2164.55 leaving Bal. in hand $717.40 and contains the following suggestion, viz. "Of the balance of funds on hand it will be desirable to expend about one hundred or one hundred & fifty dollars for new furniture. It is proposed to invest the surplus in interest bearing securities to be approved by the Executive Committee, in accordance with an order of the Board."

On motion of Mr. Lay this was received and approved.

On motion of Mr. Goode- resolved that:

The subjects attended to in the Report of the Chairman of the Faculty be referred to their appropriate standing Committees for investigation & consideration.

On motion of Dr. Randolph-

Resolved that the Finance Committee be directed to examine and verify the bonds bought by the Proctor with the sinking Fund and that they are hereby authorized to destroy the same if found correct.

Mr. Conrad appeared and reputed \[reported?\] before adjournment.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow, the 28th, at 9 O'clock A.M.

Alex. H. H. Stuart Rector

C. D. Fishburne Secy pro tem.

28 June 1881.

Board met pursuant to the adjourning order of yesterday. Present: Alex. H. H. Stuart, Rector: & Messrs. Goode, Marye, Conrad, Lay & Randolph.

On motion - resolved:

That the Proctor be directed to purchase for the rooms in the Infirmary used by members of the Board, suitable drining \[drinking?\] glasses.

On motion

Resolved that the Board approve the recommendation of Prof. Fontaine contained in his communication bearing date June 28 1881 and that, in addition to the unexpended balance heretofore appropriated to defray the expences of his Geological examinations, a sum not exceeding $400. (Four Hundred Dollars) is hereby appropriated for the purchase of a wagon, tents and for other necessary expence incurred by surveying parties in the field. also- Resolved that permission is hereby given to Prof. Fontaine to use the basement end-room in the Museum next to the Rotunda for the exhibition of Mineral specimens: and that the same shall be fitted up by the Proctor (under the supervision of Prof. Fontaine) with cases to hold these specimens as they may be accumulated.

On motion, resolved:

That the Finance Committee, be directed to appropriate Four Thousand Dollars ($4000) to the sinking fund- in pursuance of the recommendation made by the Proctor in his Report.

On motion, resolved:

That the Faculty is requested to appoint a committee of the Faculty to confer with the Board of Visitors on Wednesday at 10 A.M. in regard to the matter of determining what shall be the relations of the School of Nat. Hist: & Geology to the Master's Degree- also:

In reference to the recommendation of the Faculty in reference to instruction in Botany- and a change in the name of the School of Zoology, Agricultural Botany, & Agriculture: and as to assistance in the Schools of Greek & Mathematics.

Board then adjourned, in order to give time to the Committees to prepare their reports- till tomorrow morning at 9 O'clock.

Alex. H. H. Stuart Rector

C. D. Fishburne Secy pro tem.

29 June 1881

Board met pursuant to adjournment of yesterday. Present: Mr. Stuart, Rector and Messrs Conrad, Lay, Randolph, Whitehead & Marye.

On motion:

Resolved that the recommendation of the Faculty that, for the present, the graduates in Geology & Mineralogy, subjects taught in the School of Natural History and Geology, not studying Botany - be entitled to diplomas as Graduates in Geology & Mineralogy, is approved and that they be authorized to issue the same as recommended.

On motion:

Resolved (pursuant to the recommendation of the Faculty) that the School heretofore known as the School of Zoology, Agricultural Botany and Agriculture, be hereafter known as the "School of Agriculture, Zoology and Agricultural Botany: and as each of the subjects herein named is taught in a separate course, a certificate of Proficiency shall be granted to successful students in each.

The Board having had in consideration the relation which the School of Natural History & Geology should bear to the attainment of the degree of Master of Arts and a Committee of the Faculty, having by invitation of the Board, expressed its views on this subject in the following recommendation, presented by Professors Mallet, Price & Page - to wit:

"Resolved that we recommend,

1st That the Degree of Bot. as at present organized be made necessary to the attainment of the degree of M.A.

"2nd That, in order to bring the School of Nat: Hist: & Geology within the range of the Master's degree, graduation in that school be admitted as a substitute for graduation in Hist. & Lit. or in Chemistry, or in Natural Philosophy or in Moral Philosophy.

"In respect of the 1st recommendation, the action of the Committee is without definite instructions from the Faculty and we would therefore ask to have an opinion, if approved by the Board, referred back to the Faculty.

Whereupon, & on motion:

The Board do order,

1st That, in order to bring the School of Natural History and Geology within the range of the Master's degree, graduation in that School be admitted as a substitute for graduation in History & Literature, or in Natural Philosophy or in Moral Philosophy and,

2nd That the attainment of the degree of Bachelor of Arts as at present organized, be made necessary to the Degree of Master of Arts.

The "Miller Board", through a Committee, presented to the Board a Report of Messes Minor & Barbour and a Supplement by Mr. B. J. Barbour, which gave the results of their visit to Agricultural Colleges in some of the Northern States and in Canada- which Reports were read by the Board.

The society of Alumni, through a committee, of which Col. C. S. Venable was Chairman, presented to the Board the following communication.

The Society of the Alumni of the University of Virginia, to the Rector & Board of Visitors, Greeting:

We have the honour to turn over to the Board of Visitors the funds collected for the endowment of the Professorship and Working fund of the Leander McCormick Observatory with the following conditions:

1st That the Rector and Board of Visitors shall pay out of the funds of the University the sum of Two thousand Dollars ($2000) to the expense fund of the collection.

2nd That the Rector & Board of Visitors of the University shall provide a house for the Director of the Observatory (Professor of Astronomy).

3rd That Mr. Leander J. McCormick shall have the privilege of nominating the first Professor (Director) for the consideration of the Board.

We beg leave to make the following statement of the whole matter:

Through the kindness of Mr. W. H. Vanderbilt who has consented that his munificent gift of twenty five thousand dollars may be applied as is thought best for the interests of the University. The fund for the endowment will stand thus:

Mr. Leander J. McCormick in addition to his splendid gift of the Great Telescope has pledged himself to build the Observatory at a cost not exceeding Eighteen thousand dollars ($18,000.)

The Society of the Alumni propose that as an appropriate and graceful recognition of Mr. McCormick's generous munificence the Observatory shall always be styled the "Leander McCormick Observatory" and that this be carved in marble over its entrance.

The Society proposed also that the noble contribution of Mr. Wm. H. Vanderbilt be kept as a distinctive and separate working fund, known as the "W. H. Vanderbilt endowment."

We would request also that the Rector & Board of Visitors shall have prepared a handsomely embossed roll of the names of the contributors of the larger amounts to the $50,000 fund to be hung in a suitable place in the Library.

Another condition is imposed upon the gift in accordance with the earnest desire of Mr. McCormick to promote active astronomival work by his foundation- and that is, that the Director of the Observatory (Professor of Astronomy) shall have no teaching to do in the University, except in Practical & Theoretical Astronomy.

The Rector appointed Messrs Marye, Conrad and Whitehead a Committee to prepare a suitable response to this communication recd from the Society of Alumni.

On motion, the following resolutions were adopted and certified to the Miller Board, now in session: (Mr. Lay being absent)

1st That we offer to the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund our thanks for the report of their Committee travelling to examine the Agricultural Colleges of the United States and Canada.

2\. That in reply to the suggestions that we should make tuition free for students of agriculture in that School and the other Schools of the University one would state that at present tuition is free for Virginia students over 18 years of age, after examination, leaving the fee for matriculation alone to be paid and that we will consider at this meeting of our Board the propriety of conceding that, in addition, to students of agriculture

3\. That we will also consider the advisability of offering a bonus to students of agriculture, the fund to be supplied from the interest on the Miller fund.

4\. We do not think it advisable to incorporate into the laws of the University one requiring compulsory manual labor of its students. If any such requirement is to be imposed, it could only, in our judgment, be successfully maintained under an arrangement which provides for the separate accommodation, employment and association of the manual labour students: and we do not see that the Miller fund at our disposal is at all adequate to procure and equip a farm with the buildings and appointments indispensable to the successful conduct of a manual labor Farm.

5\. In regard to the suggestions implied in the said Reports, that the Professor of Agriculture could inspire interest in & draw favor to his School by addresses delivered to Agricultural Communities in Virginia, we shall be glad to further this policy by some action in aid of this effort on the part of that Professor

6\. Always glad to receive suggestions from the Board of the Miller Trustees as to the management of the School of Agriculture, we ask that more specific suggestions may be made if the Board of M. Ts. think proper

At this stage of proceedings, Messrs. Thos. S. Bocock and Jno. H. Gilmore, members of the Board arrived & reported for duty.

On motion, the Board adjourned till 9 A.M. tomorrow.

Alex. H. H. Stuart Rector

C. D. Fishburne, Secy pro tem.

Board met pursuant to adjourning order of yesterday at 9 A.M.

30 June 1881.

Present: Messrs Stuart, Rector: Randolph, Conrad, Whitehead, Marye, Lay, Bowcock, & Gilmore.

On motion,

Resolved that another member be added to the Executive Committee and Mr. Conrad being nominated, was duly elected a member of said Committee - which now therefore consists of Messrs Randolph, Bowcock & Conrad & the Rector, ex officio.

The Committee to whom it was referred on yesterday to prepare a suitable response to the communication received from the Society of Alumni, reported as follows:

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia having received a communication from the Society of Alumni of this Institution, tendering to them the funds necessary for the building and endowment of the McCormick Observatory, desire to place on record their sense of obligation to the munificent donors to whose liberality in the main this great accession to the scientific facilities of the University is due, and to the Society of Alumni by whose faithful & unwearied labors the consummation in which we rejoice has been accomplished.

Therefore, resolved;

1\. That the Board of Visitors tender to Mr. Leander J. McCormick their thanks for the very generous gift of the great Telescope and Observatory-building which has entitled him to the lasting gratitude of the State of Virginia and of all friends of learning: and in appropriate recognition of his munificence the Board hereby direct that the Observatory shall always be known and designated as the "Leander McCormick Observatory."

2\. That the hearty thanks of the Board are hereby tendered to Mr. William H. Vanderbilt for his liberal donation of Twenty five thousand Dollars in connection with the McCormick Observatory which generous aid has proved of special value in contributing to the full success of Mr. McCormick's design:

3\. That the Board of Visitors very highly appreciate the labors of the Society of Alumni to make available for the University the donations of Mr. McCormick and Mr. Vanderbilt. To them and to the various contributors by whose donations the endowment fund of Fifty thousand dollars was secured within the limited time, the University acknowledges a debt of inexpressible gratitude.

4\. That the Executive Committee be directed to take all necessary steps for the receipt and proper management and investment of the funds now turned over to the University by the Society of Alumni. And that in consultation with Professors Smith, Venable, Mallett & Thornton they shall determine the site for the Observatory and the residence of the Director, and control the arrangements for the erection of those buildings, especially taking care that the name, "Leander McCormick Observatory" be placed on a marble slab over the entrance of the Observatory.

5\. That a new "School" shall be established in the University to be known as "the School of Astronomy", which shall be opened as soon as the buildings shall be in a suitable state. The Salary of the Professor shall be the same as those of other "Schools" and he shall teach theoretical & practical Astronomy, & no other subject. He shall be Director of the McCormick Observatory and shall devote his time when not occupied with instruction of classes to astronomical investigations and practical use of the Observatory, for systematic exploration & work.

In the election of said Professor for the first time, Mr. Leander J. McCormick shall have the privilege of nominating a suitable person for the position to be considered by the Board.

6\. That the sum of Two thousand Dollars be and the same is hereby appropriated out of the funds of the University to be paid to the endowment fund of the McCormick Observatory according to the first condition mentioned in the communication of the Society of Alumni and that the sum of            dollars be and the same is hereby appropriated for the erection of a suitable residence for the Director of the Observatory, according to the second condition of the same paper:

And that the donation of Mr. Vanderbilt of twenty five thousand dollars shall be kept as a distinctive and separate "working fund", the income of which shall be devoted to astronomical work proper. This fund shall be known as the "Vanderbilt Endowment" and the Executive Committee are hereby directed to prepare and cause to be hung in the Library a handsomely embossed roll of the names of the contributors of the larger amounts to the fund of fifty thousand Dollars.

(signed) Jno. L. Marye, Chmn.

Whereupon, on motion:

Resolved: that the Rector is requested to transmit to Mr. Leander J. McCormick and to Mr. William H. Vanderbilt the resolutions expressing the appreication of the Board as to the generous gifts of these gentlemen to the University.

2\. That the Secretary of the Board send forthwith to the Society of the alumni a copy of the Preamble and resolutions adopted by the Board in response to the communication from the Society in reference to the McCormick Observatory.

On motion the following order was adopted:

It appearing to the Board of Visitors desirable and proper that a permanent system of water supply, of drainage & sewerage and of light & ventilation should be established for the University: and that all future extension and improvement of the public grounds & buildings should be conducted on a fixed and uniform plan.

Resolved,

That to this end the Executive Committee be now instructed to engage the services of some skilled and experienced person, competent for this purpose who, from personal inspection of the premises, will contrive such system and prepare such plan as may be adequate & suitable for the purpose & report the same, with the specifications thereof, to the Executive Committee: and the same, if approved by them, shall be adopted.

And a sum not exceeding $500. is appropriated for the purpose.

Col. R. T. W. Duke secretary of the Miller Board presented the following Resolutions which had been adopted by that Board and ordered to be sent to this Board.

"Resolved 1. That in the opinion of this Board success in the Miller Agricultural School of this University cannot be attained without a thorough reorganization of the School - it having proved a lamentable failure under its present management.

2\. That this Board is unwilling to make further appropriations till such reorganization can be had.

3\. That, in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Visitors (passed on yesterday) inviting suggestions from this Board, this Board will be pleased to meet the Board of Visitors, or a Committee thereof, at the University of Virginia on the 25th of July next, or at such other place & time as may be more agreeable to the Board of Visitors, when this Board will make suggestions looking to a proper reorganization of the Ag. School."

These Resolutions having been read, Judge Lay offered the following:

The Board of Visitors of the U. of Va. have received the communication from the Miller Board, they deem it pertinent only to reply to the 2nd Resolution and to say that —;

The Board of Visitors can recognize no right to withhold the appropriation specially granted to the Board of Visitors & that if any such effort be made they propose to protect themselves by proper legal remedy: But as the whole question is the simple question of legal construction of the Original Instrument making the donation to the University, we suggest to avoid expense to both parties that we, by a friendly agreement in writing submit this question to the five gentlemen who comprise the court of Appeals of Va. for final adjudication. To them it would in all probability go, in the event of litigation & to this end alone it is proposed.

That the executive Committee be authorized to meet the Committee of the Miller Board as requested, at such time & place as they may determine, or may be agreed on.

Whereupon, on motion

Resolved that the Resolutions of the Miller Board which have just been read, together with the resolutions submitted by Mr. Lay in relation thereto be committed to a select Committee of three to be appointed by the Rector who are instructed maturely to consider the important subject, involved in the said resolutions of the Miller Board and report the proper mode of action for this Board in relation thereto.

Pursuant to this Resolution the Rector appointed the following gentlemen as the Committee therein provided - viz: Messrs Bowcock, Marye & Gilmore.

On motion, resolved:

That the Resolution adopted on the 28th inst. appropriating $4000. to the sinking fund ( see page 90) be and is hereby rescinded.

The following Report of the Committee on Library is presented:

The Committee to examine the Library respectfully report that they have discharged that duty and are gratified to be able to report the satisfactory & orderly condition of the same under the charge & supervision of the efficient assistant Librarian.

They regret to report the continued & hopeless indisposition of the venerable & highly esteemed Librarian incapacitating him, as for a long time past - for the active discharge, of the duties of the office, involving also the important duties of the Secretary of the Faculty, both of which have been efficiently discharged by the Assistant Librarian.

In response to our enquiry the assistant Secy has no special recommendations to make beyond that embodied in the report of the Faculty.

Your Committee feel constrained for the reasons hereinafter given, to decline recommending the increased appropriation asked for beyond the $300.00, not that under other circumstances they would not willingly & wisely they think, recommend the appropriation of a sum sufficiently large to make the University Library all that it should be , but in view of the rules of economy & prudence which should guide us even in our present improved state of Finance: and also in view of the many immediate calls for appropriations to insure the health & comfort of the Students and families comprising the University they feel we can well afford, without detriment to the true interests of the Institution, to postpone this appropriation to another year.

The Committee feel especially called upon to endorse the action of the Rector and to respond to the recommendation of the Faculty with reference to the "Lee" papers & to recommend the continuance of Col. Th. L. Preston in the duty of digesting & collating these valuable papers for their proper preservation upon reasonable terms of compensation to be approved by the Rector for his past & future services in the premises, until the completion of the same - but your Committee do not approve the recommendation of the Faculty for the sale of these manuscripts, believing them to be especially appropriate & valuable to the archives of the University.

The fact of the long continued incapacity of the Librarian, by reason of old age & attending physical infirmities for all, or any, of the duties of his Office, has been alluded to, with the statement that no hope can be indulged of his ever being able to resume them.

We have also recognized the fact of the faithful & efficient discharge of these duties by the assistant Librarian under all the circumstances we recommend, as a special testimonial to the worth of this aged & valuable officer, born to his duties almost with the birth of the University & which he has honored by a long life of faithful service, recognizing it as a special exception in his favor, that William Wertenbaker be and is hereby promoted & appointed "Emeritus Librarian" with a continuance of his salary of $700 during his life; and that Fred. W. Page be promoted & appointed Librarian and as such Secretary of the Faculty, with a salary of $700 until the further order of this Board.

(signed) Jno L. Marye Com

Jno Goode Com

Jno F. Lay Com

On motion the foregoing resolutions are adopted and approved by the Board.

On motion, the following was adopted.

The Board deem it advisable, in accordance with long established usage, pursued from time to time at their discretion, to change the incumbency in the office of the Chairman of the Faculty, and, on motion, the Board elected Professor J. W. Mallet Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year, and directed the entry of the following minute on the Record, viz:

The Board deem it appropriate, in this connection to declare their favorable appreciation of the fidelity and zeal for the welfare of the University exhibited by Dr. James F. Harrison, throughout his long service as Chairman.

Committee on the "Conduct of Schools" report as follows:

From the reports made by each Professor and transmitted by the Chairman of the Faculty, there seems to have been an excellent proportion of hard-working men among the students: and though the average intellectual capacity despite some brilliant exceptions has been lower than is generally the case, a very good record of success has been made. The number of graduates is large and the list an honorable one. The report from most of the schools is to the effect that preparation for the classes was inferior to the average of former years. An exception occurs notably in the Senior Classes of Latin and Greek, in both which a great improvement is announced. The same elementary deficiencies are complained of in every direction, in the language of one of the Faculty, "still heavy and disheartening."

The general management appears to be excellent: rigid and yet not too much so, and maintaining the high standard for which the University is known.

The following recommendations concerning matters referred to in the several reports are brought to the attention of the Board.

1\. That Mr. Richard M. Smith be appointed assistant in the School of Latin in place of Mr. W. J. Bingham who declined reappointment.

2\. That the Executive Committee be authorized to appoint an assistant in the School of Greek, at a salary of not over $400 per annum.

3\. That Mr. Julian Taylor be appointed Assistant in the School of Modern Languages in place of Mr. F. M. Page, resigned.

4\. That the Librarian be directed, if practicable to have mounted and made available the wall maps and other such aids prepared for the use of the Schools of Modern Languages.

5\. That Prof. Schele de Vere be authorized to add a post graduate course to his instructions: and that his request to have an additional hour for Senior German be referred to the Faculty with directions to arrange for such additional hour, if it be practicable to do so without injury to other classes already established.

6\. That Prof. Mallet be allowed to procure for the School of Chemistry a lecture table-balance and such other apparatus as the Faculty recommend in their report.

7\. That the Board take pleasure in hereby expressing their high appreciation of the worth and proficiency in learning of Mr. F. M. Page, who has been acting during the past year as Assistant in the School of Modern Languages, and in recommending him to all whom he may meet in his future career.

8\. That the Executive Committee be authorized to appoint an Assistant in the School of Mathematics at the same compensation as heretofore allowed.

(Signed) W. C. N. Randolph Chmn.

On motion the foregoing Report and the suggestions therein were adopted and approved.

On motion of Mr. Lay,

\[Resolved that in\] In view of the fact that the Degree of Master of Arts is the highest conferred by the University of Virginia & ought to be conferred with marked & distinctive formality: Therefore Resolved that in addition to the signatures now required to be affixed to the Diplomas conferring said Degrees the Rector of the University is authorized & requested in behalf of the Board of Visitors to affix his signature to said Diplomas and personally to deliver the same to the students entitled thereto.

The Committee to whom was referred so much of the Report of the Faculty as relates to the Finances of the University beg leave to report:

1\. That the present condition of the finances afford ground for congratulation and encouragement and justifies the belief that a continuance of the Economic methods hitherto employed, will within a reasonable time relieve the University of the debt that has absorbed so much of its revenue and leave that revenue to be applied directly to the promotion of the efficiency of the Institution.

2\. They recommend the following appropriations to meet the estimated expenses of the ensuing year:

3\. They further recommend the appropriation of $250.00 for the construction of the back porch to the building occupied by Prof. N. K. Davis.

4\. That a sum not exceeding $400. be appropriated for the purchase of a wagon and tents and other expenses they may be incurred by Prof. Fontaine and his party in the Geological Survey to be made under his direction.

5\. Your Committee report that they have verified and destroyed bonds of the University that have been paid off and taken up by the Proctor as follows viz: Of the Martha Randolph bonds $7,500, viz: Nos. 4, 24, 25, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, & 39 of $500 each.

P. St. Geo. Cocke Bonds $25,000 - No. 1 $5000, No. 2 $5000, No.3 $5000 Nos. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 & 13 of $1000 each.

Spooner Debt to Wm. & Mary College $2600.

Coleman L. M. debt $2500.

Carr Hill bonds $10,000 - Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, &5 of $2000 each.

Venable C. S. debt $1250 - 1st Mortgage 8% bond $18,000 - Nos. 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 11, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 25, 26, 27, 28, 30, of $1000 each: of these No. 30 was presented to the University by W. W. Corcoran who was the lawful holder.

2nd Mortgage 8% bonds. $30,000 - Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, & 30 of $1000 each.

That Dr. Wm. C. N. Randolph has expressed the wish to have for the sake of the family associations connected therewith one of the series of the Martha Randolph bonds - The Committee recommend that his wish be gratified and that No. 25 of the series, which has been cancelled, be given to Dr. Randolph.

(signed) Holmes Conrad, Chmn

On motion,

Resolved that the foregoing Report be approved and is hereby adopted by the Board of Visitors.

On motion

The Board adjourned till tomorrow morning at 9 Oclock. C. D. Fishburne, Secy. pro tem.

University of Va. July 1st 1881

Board met pursuant to adjourning order of yesterday.

Present: Messrs. Stuart, Rector; Randolph, Conrad, Marye, Whitehead, Lay, Bowcock & Gilmore.

On motion, ordered

That the Proctor do cause the skylight over the stand in the Public Hall to be so improved as to allow of free ventilation-and the protection of the stand from excessive glare.

The Committee appointed on yesterday to consider certain Resolutions of the Miller Board presented to the Board of Visitors of the University of the Virginia the following Report, to wit:

University of Virginia.

The Committee to whom were referred the resolutions of the Miller Board, complaining of the inefficiency of the Agricultural School connected with this University, and declaring that they will make no further appropriation for this Institution until the said school shall be essentially reorganized (together with the resolutions of Mr. Lay in relation thereto) have maturely considered the subject and beg leave to report the following resolutions for the adoption of the Board of Visitors.

1st Resolved, That we have read the said Resolutions of the Miller Board with unfeigned regret. We regret the position assumed by said Board, not only in relation to the character of said School, but also as to their rightful authority over it. We are not without hope that upon a fair presentation of the facts of the whole case, the amount of funds yearly employed, the means enjoyed for its profitable use, and other circumstances connected with its conduct and management, their views as to the relative efficiency of the School might be to a greater or less extent modified: if, on the other hand, the Miller Board should be able to present to this Board facts and reasons which appeal to and control our judgment in regard to a change in the organization or conduct of our School of Agriculture. We are ready as heretofore declared by us, to give due weight to any such communication. But we can under no conceivable circumstances, consent to any discussion looking to a divided authority as to the management and control of any School in this University - it being our unalterable conviction that to its Board of Visitors alone belong the entire management and control of this University in all its parts, & that it would be a culpable abandonment of the duties and responsibilities with which we are charged were we to yield up and surrender any portion of said control.

2nd Resolved, That in our view, upon a fair and just construction of the Miller Deed, the Board created thereunder has a very limited discretion over the fund set apart for this Uni - versity. Certain circumstances existing at the time, created in the mind of the Grantor some apprehensions as to the continued existence of the University of Virginia and its being maintained as an efficient institution of Learning. That Board was empowered and charged, therefore, to inquire into the facts bearing on these points. These conditions being ascertained to exist: and a School of Experimental and Practical Agriculture having been in due time constituted and established at and in the University by the authorities thereof, the professors of which and their assistants have been appointed from persons recommended by the said Board, the said Board have no discretion but to appropriate the fund to the said School and place it under the control & management of the Board of Visitors of the University.

3rd Resolved That the position taken by the Miller Board in assuming to themselves a discretion as to whether or not they will appropriate this fund, founded when a claim to have the School of Agriculture in this Institution managed in conformity with their views, developes so wide a difference of opinion between that Board and this Board of Visitors in reference to our respective rights and powers under the Miller Deed, and places our claim to this fund upon terms and conditions so variant from our view of the intent & purpose of the Grantor, and so repugnant to our sense of our duties and responsibilities as managers of the University, as to leave us no alternative but to seek an authoritative construction of the Miller deed and a final determination of the rights of the parties under it. But, preferring, as we do, that that such construction shall be given in a way as agreeable to the Miller Board as may be consistent with fairness and finality in its enunciation, we propose that the said Miller Board, by a committee of its members, shall meet a committee of this Board at the University of Virginia on the 25th of the present month, (July) or such other day as may be agreed on, to consult and if practicable, agree on the best and most advisable mode of obtaining said construction.

4th Resolved, That a committee of four members be appointed on behalf of this Board to meet any committee which may be appointed by the Miller Board in pursuance of the foregoing resolution should agree thereto.

5\. Resolved, That a copy of this Report & resolutions be forwarded to the Chairman and each member of the Miller Board.

On motion the foregoing resolutions were unanimously adopted and the committee provided for in the 4th Resolution was appointed, consisting of Messrs Th. S. Bowcock, Jno. L. Marye, Jas H. Gilmore & Holmes Conrad.

On motion the following was adopted:

The Board, upon further consideration of the matter, instruct the Chairman of the Faculty that, hereafter the Library-Room shall not be used for dancing except on the morning of Wednesday & on the night of the final-day of the Commencement season.

The Board adjourned to meet again on the call of the Rector.

I have regretted that I was not able to attend the late meeting of the Mining Engineers in Staunton, as besides the interest of the occasion to which you kindly lent your aid, and the opportunity of seeing you, one of the very few survivors of my old Wm. & Mary Comrades & friends, I should have had the pleasure of speaking to you of University affairs & especially about the work which Prof. Fontaine is doing for the credit of his Department.

Until my visit to the Univy last April I had not known Prof. Fontaine personally, though somewhat cognizant of his scientific work, through his published papers & my correspondence with him, all of which had impressed me most favorably. From my intercourse with him on that occasion & the exhibition he made to me of the results of his more recent scientific labours, I was more than confirmed in the high opinion I had previously formed of his solid abilities as a scientific worker & I became more than ever assured of the benefits which his labours would confer upon his Department & upon the community.

Prof. Fontaine's extreme modesty & retiring habits might perhaps lead a stranger to a false impression as to his merits; but no one interested in his pursuits could hold conversation with him, without recognizing the quiet enthusiasm & the true spirit of the Naturalist.

In examining the extensive work on the fossil plants &c of the Virginia Mesozoic Rock (the middle & upper Secondary of My Reports) which he kindly submitted to my inspection, I was greatly impressed by the critical nicety of his observations and the beauty & faithfulness of his drawings of the objects, described, a large number of which are of his own discovery. I am sure that this forthcoming memoir while adding to the reputation he already acquired in this Department of Geology will reflect credit on the University.

From all that I have seen I feel persuaded that with due encouragement his department is destined to secure increasing favour with the students & with the public, & to vindicate more & more the wisdom of its establishment in the University.

With Kindest remembrances, believe me dear Sir.

Herewith I respectfully transmit reports &c as follows, viz:

1\. Faculty Report.

2\. Proctor's Reports.

3\. Report of Commissioner of accounts.

4\. Report of Prof. of the School of Geology &c.

5\. Report of the Infirmary Board.

6\. Librarian's Report.

7\. Report of Prof. of School of Genl & Industrial Chemistry.

8\. Report of Adjt. Prof. Thornton (Agricultural Dept.)

9\. Report of Prof. Mallett (Agricultural Dept.)

Letters of Prof. F. H. Smith,

A. M. Stone

Tables of salaries.

It is gratifying to report that the discipline of the University has been good. The students, as a rule, have been studious: and an excellent condition of health has prevailed among them: Some dissatisfaction has been expressed by a large number of them on the ground of their not being able to enjoy the privileges of changing, at least at the end of a quarter, from one boarding house to another, owing to the fact that such change renders it necessary for them to make an entire removal of their furniture, etc. after having gone to some expence, and having taken in many cases, a good deal of pains to make their rooms neat and comfortable for the session: and further they say that inasmuch as all the rooms are occupied and most of them have been fitted up as stated above, for the term, they are virtually deprived of the privilege to change their place of boarding under the existing rule. I would respectfully ask if the Secretary to the Faculty, a position now held by the Asst Librarian - is entitled to compensation? There was an allowance of four hundred Dollars, some years since, for the duties of the position.

Professorship (various subscribers)

$50,000.00

Working Fund (Mr. Vanderbilt's gift)

$25,000.00

The Society of the Alumni of the University of Virginia, to the Rector & Board of Visitors, Greeting:

We have the honour to turn over to the Board of Visitors the funds collected for the endowment of the Professorship and Working fund of the Leander McCormick Observatory with the following conditions:

1st That the Rector and Board of Visitors shall pay out of the funds of the University the sum of Two thousand Dollars ($2000) to the expense fund of the collection.

2nd That the Rector & Board of Visitors of the University shall provide a house for the Director of the Observatory (Professor of Astronomy).

3rd That Mr. Leander J. McCormick shall have the privilege of nominating the first Professor (Director) for the consideration of the Board.

We beg leave to make the following statement of the whole matter:

Through the kindness of Mr. W. H. Vanderbilt who has consented that his munificent gift of twenty five thousand dollars may be applied as is thought best for the interests of the University. The fund for the endowment will stand thus:

Mr. Leander J. McCormick in addition to his splendid gift of the Great Telescope has pledged himself to build the Observatory at a cost not exceeding Eighteen thousand dollars ($18,000.)

The Society of the Alumni propose that as an appropriate and graceful recognition of Mr. McCormick's generous munificence the Observatory shall always be styled the "Leander McCormick Observatory" and that this be carved in marble over its entrance.

The Society proposed also that the noble contribution of Mr. Wm. H. Vanderbilt be kept as a distinctive and separate working fund, known as the "W. H. Vanderbilt endowment."

We would request also that the Rector & Board of Visitors shall have prepared a handsomely embossed roll of the names of the contributors of the larger amounts to the $50,000 fund to be hung in a suitable place in the Library.

Another condition is imposed upon the gift in accordance with the earnest desire of Mr. McCormick to promote active astronomival work by his foundation- and that is, that the Director of the Observatory (Professor of Astronomy) shall have no teaching to do in the University, except in Practical & Theoretical Astronomy.

I have regretted that I was not able to attend the late meeting of the Mining Engineers in Staunton, as besides the interest of the occasion to which you kindly lent your aid, and the opportunity of seeing you, one of the very few survivors of my old Wm. & Mary Comrades & friends, I should have had the pleasure of speaking to you of University affairs & especially about the work which Prof. Fontaine is doing for the credit of his Department.

Until my visit to the Univy last April I had not known Prof. Fontaine personally, though somewhat cognizant of his scientific work, through his published papers & my correspondence with him, all of which had impressed me most favorably. From my intercourse with him on that occasion & the exhibition he made to me of the results of his more recent scientific labours, I was more than confirmed in the high opinion I had previously formed of his solid abilities as a scientific worker & I became more than ever assured of the benefits which his labours would confer upon his Department & upon the community.

Prof. Fontaine's extreme modesty & retiring habits might perhaps lead a stranger to a false impression as to his merits; but no one interested in his pursuits could hold conversation with him, without recognizing the quiet enthusiasm & the true spirit of the Naturalist.

In examining the extensive work on the fossil plants &c of the Virginia Mesozoic Rock (the middle & upper Secondary of My Reports) which he kindly submitted to my inspection, I was greatly impressed by the critical nicety of his observations and the beauty & faithfulness of his drawings of the objects, described, a large number of which are of his own discovery. I am sure that this forthcoming memoir while adding to the reputation he already acquired in this Department of Geology will reflect credit on the University.

From all that I have seen I feel persuaded that with due encouragement his department is destined to secure increasing favour with the students & with the public, & to vindicate more & more the wisdom of its establishment in the University.

With Kindest remembrances, believe me dear Sir.

Herewith I respectfully transmit reports &c as follows, viz:

1\. Faculty Report.

2\. Proctor's Reports.

3\. Report of Commissioner of accounts.

4\. Report of Prof. of the School of Geology &c.

5\. Report of the Infirmary Board.

6\. Librarian's Report.

7\. Report of Prof. of School of Genl & Industrial Chemistry.

8\. Report of Adjt. Prof. Thornton (Agricultural Dept.)

9\. Report of Prof. Mallett (Agricultural Dept.)

Letters of Prof. F. H. Smith,

A. M. Stone

Tables of salaries.

It is gratifying to report that the discipline of the University has been good. The students, as a rule, have been studious: and an excellent condition of health has prevailed among them: Some dissatisfaction has been expressed by a large number of them on the ground of their not being able to enjoy the privileges of changing, at least at the end of a quarter, from one boarding house to another, owing to the fact that such change renders it necessary for them to make an entire removal of their furniture, etc. after having gone to some expence, and having taken in many cases, a good deal of pains to make their rooms neat and comfortable for the session: and further they say that inasmuch as all the rooms are occupied and most of them have been fitted up as stated above, for the term, they are virtually deprived of the privilege to change their place of boarding under the existing rule. I would respectfully ask if the Secretary to the Faculty, a position now held by the Asst Librarian - is entitled to compensation? There was an allowance of four hundred Dollars, some years since, for the duties of the position.

Professorship (various subscribers)

$50,000.00

Working Fund (Mr. Vanderbilt's gift)

$25,000.00

The Society of the Alumni of the University of Virginia, to the Rector & Board of Visitors, Greeting:

We have the honour to turn over to the Board of Visitors the funds collected for the endowment of the Professorship and Working fund of the Leander McCormick Observatory with the following conditions:

1st That the Rector and Board of Visitors shall pay out of the funds of the University the sum of Two thousand Dollars ($2000) to the expense fund of the collection.

2nd That the Rector & Board of Visitors of the University shall provide a house for the Director of the Observatory (Professor of Astronomy).

3rd That Mr. Leander J. McCormick shall have the privilege of nominating the first Professor (Director) for the consideration of the Board.

We beg leave to make the following statement of the whole matter:

Through the kindness of Mr. W. H. Vanderbilt who has consented that his munificent gift of twenty five thousand dollars may be applied as is thought best for the interests of the University. The fund for the endowment will stand thus:

Mr. Leander J. McCormick in addition to his splendid gift of the Great Telescope has pledged himself to build the Observatory at a cost not exceeding Eighteen thousand dollars ($18,000.)

The Society of the Alumni propose that as an appropriate and graceful recognition of Mr. McCormick's generous munificence the Observatory shall always be styled the "Leander McCormick Observatory" and that this be carved in marble over its entrance.

The Society proposed also that the noble contribution of Mr. Wm. H. Vanderbilt be kept as a distinctive and separate working fund, known as the "W. H. Vanderbilt endowment."

We would request also that the Rector & Board of Visitors shall have prepared a handsomely embossed roll of the names of the contributors of the larger amounts to the $50,000 fund to be hung in a suitable place in the Library.

Another condition is imposed upon the gift in accordance with the earnest desire of Mr. McCormick to promote active astronomival work by his foundation- and that is, that the Director of the Observatory (Professor of Astronomy) shall have no teaching to do in the University, except in Practical & Theoretical Astronomy.