Board of Visitors minutes (1881) September 28, 1881
===================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

September 28, 1881

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

10 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

The Board met pursuant to the adjourning order at the White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia on the 19th of August last and in obedience to the call of the Rector.

Present- the Rector, Mr. Stuart, and Messrs Bocock, Goode, Lay, Marye & Whitehead.

On motion, Resolved, that the acts and proceedings of this Board at the irregular meeting thereof held at the White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia, in August last as hereinbefore recorded, be and the same are hereby ratified, approved & adopted by this Board.

Dr. Harrison, Chairman of the Faculty was present at the request of the Board and submitted the following papers for the consideration of the Board, viz-

1\. Report of Prof. Page as follows:

Dear Sir: I have the honor to make the following Report in regard to the working of the School of Agriculture, Zoology & Botany, & the Experimental Farm.

In accordance with the resolutions of the Trustees of The Miller Board establishing three Agricultural Scholarships; and with the orders of the Board of Visitors to carry out those resolutions, we proceeded immediately to arrange the subjects for the special competitive examinations; and to advertise the fact that they would be held at the close of the first week of the session. The Circulars of advertisement were distributed in all sections of the State & were sent especially to Teachers & the county Superintendents of Public Schools- Notwithstanding this; when the time arrived we had only two candidates- Mr. William H. Seamon from West Virginia & Mr. Samuel Porches from Hanover County Virginia.

These gentlemen having passed the Examinations & obtained the required standard, we accorded one of the Agricultural Scholarships to Mr. Seamon & the other to Mr. William Porches leaving the post graduate scholarship to be taken by Mr. Frank Hampton, as provided and expected. Mr. Hampton did not return to the University, and consequently that Scholarship was vacant. The Scholars then entered upon the studies in my School, but soon afterwards, Mr. Poches applied to me and thence to the Faculty to be allowed to leave the School, on the ground that he was studying Chemistry & the Engineering Course- studies comprised in the Agricultural Department.

The Faculty referred the matter to the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors, & they decided that he could leave the School. This left me with only one student in the School of Agriculture, Mr. Seamon, & three in the Class of Botany.

Mr. Seamon has graduated in the School of Agriculture, Zoology & Botany with high marks, and bids fair to do us great credit. I would advise that in the future the Scholarships be extensively advertised in the Country news-papers, in the State, as well as by Circulars, in order to reach the class of young men for whom they are intended as early in the vacation as possible.

The improvement in the lands of the Experimental Farm is marked and progressive, as shown by the Crops of wheat, corn, grass & clover now growing in the fields. For results of Experiments in wheat, corn and grasses, see reports herewith inclosed. I have a Vineyard of three acres and a half planted, All the vines except the "Norton" are doing well; many of these failed to take root in the first planting, but have been replanted this Spring.

The fencing on the lands of the Experimental Farm - never good - is now in wretched condition, & is a subject of very considerable expense. Although we have a fence law in this County, it is impossible to enforce it and to protect our crops from depredation without proper enclosures. Where the fences are worst I am replacing them with barbed wire and locusts posts twelve feet apart & four strands of wire, at a cost of about forty five cents a pannel of twelve feet. It is obvious that this fencing must take a very considerable amount from the specific appropriation of $500. to the farm & Experimental purposes; and unless special provision is made to meet it, we will inevitably be compelled to curtail our improvements and experiments. Fencing & ditching being permanent improvements, I would ask that one hundred dollars be allowed for the purpose of putting the farm in thorough condition in these respects. The labor bill alone for the past year has taken $400 out of the $500 appropriated, and, but for the sale of hay & other crops at high prices, we would not have been able to have put up any fencing or to have purchased the necessary grass seeds and fertilizers to prosecute the work. In looking over the inclosed Inventory of Property- & Implements, you will perceive that our wheat drill, originally and old second-hand implement, is marked worthless. I would ask therefore & request that a specific appropriation be made for the purchase of a new one of an improved patent. I have in process of preparation about a half acre of land, well suited for corn, to make "Enselage". If it is deemed advisable to carry out this experiment it will be necessary to provide a proper "Silo" or pit, which is also a permanent improvement and will require a specific appropriation.

Mr. James Weannouth, our farm manager, having lately married, finds the two (2) small rooms he has hitherto occupied, insufficient for ordinary comfort. I would therefore recommend that his application for an appropriation, to the amount of one hundred dollars be granted, to make the addition of a kitchen &c.

You will notice in the Inventory of property, that we still have the tile machine and about 5000 tiles on hand, most of these we will require on the farm; but when used will be credited to the tile machine as directed.

In conclusion permit me to ask that the usual appropriation for printing our publications may be allowed, and to say that the 500 copies of the lecture delivered before the Agricultural Society by Assistant Professors, Dunnington & Thornton & myself were published and distributed at my own expense; and that such was the demand for them, that we have only some twenty copies left.

The Brooks Museum is in good condition as well as the specimens; except some stuffed birds which have been attacked by insects. Close attention & frequent "spraying" with carbolic acid solution seems to prevent their injurious effects. The little room known as the "Botanical work room" is utterly useless to me for the want of the necessary articles of furniture. A round table five feet in diameter & a half dozen chairs would supply this want.

Inventory of property of Experimental farm.

June 2d 1881 - Two mules, waggon & harness, cart & harness, plough (wood steck,\[?\] plough (Livingston), plough (Watts & Call) Plough (Hill side) Plough & Gale, Plough (small Oliver Chilled) Harrow (Scotch) Harrow (McGinnis) Harrow (seed) Double shovel plough (Boot) Coulter, Cultivation (1 horse) Ditto (2 horse) Grain drill (worthless) corn planter, corn sheller. Threshing machine, Fan, Grindstone, Forks (three) shovels (two) spade (one) Grass blades - two -Briers blade (one) saw, squse \[square?\] & hatchet, Hoes - two- Ladder, Brick and tile machine, Tiles, 5000, corn 10 bushels.

John R. Page, M. D. Professor in charge

(Note- The foregoing Report of Dr. Page was made in duplicate to the Miller Board at the June meeting last & that copy was seen then & considered by this Board & the Report properly belongs to the proceedings of the last annl meeting, but as it was not furnished then it is now spread.)

2\. Correspondence of Col. T. L. Preston with reference to his claim to additional compensation for work done by him in preparation of synoptical Catalogue of the "Lee Papers".

3\. Letter of Mr. William Wertenbaker to the Board, expressing his thanks for honor & benefit conferred upon him by the action of the Board at the last annual meeting.

4\. Petition from Mr. Massie & the Misses Ross - ask that the price of board be advanced to $20 per month - all of which were placed on file.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 9 Oclock. Test, Jas D. Jones, Secretary.

University of Virginia

September 29th 1881

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday.

On motion,

Resolved, that sum not exceeding one thousand dollars be & the same is hereby appropriated to be expended by the Proctor & Superintendent of Grounds for the purpose of securing an additional supply of water for the University, said sum to be expended in such manner as he may deem best to accomplish the object in view.

On motion the following was adopted; Whereas the Committee of the Faculty who were charged with the duty of ascertaining which of the eminent Scientific gentlemen of the country, whose services could be obtained, would fill with most advantage the position of Professor of Astronomy, the Director of the Observatory now to be filled by us have partially discharged the duty assigned them and report informally that in their opinion Professor Gould of Cardova in the Argentine Confederation would fill the position with distinguished advantage and next after him that Professor Burnham of Chicago or Stone of Cincinnati would be the most desirable appointees for the position but the said Committee further report that they have not yet ascertained which if any of those gentlemen would accept the position

Resolved, that the Executive Committee be and they are hereby empowered to appoint temporarily, either one of those gentlemen whose services, may be found to be attainable, preferring them in the order named above.

And the said Committee be authorized to assure the gentleman who may be appointed temporarily that he will be regularly elected to said position at the next regular meeting of this Board.

The Board being informed, that since the payment of two hundred & twenty five dollars to Col. Thos. L. Preston for his services in the preparation of a synoptical Catalogue & index of the Lee Papers, and the direction to suspend said work, he has voluntarily continued his labors in this matter and rendered his bill for 40 days of this continued labor amounting to one hundred dollars, the Board hereby authorize the payment of this bill by the Proctor; and in view of the fact that the cost of this work has already exceeded the expectation of the Board, when the prosecution of it was authorized, the Board is compelled to decline any further outlay of money in this work, and the Secretary of the Board is directed to deliver a copy of this minute to Col. Preston.

On motion, the following letter received from Mr. William Wertenbaker, through the Chairman of the Faculty, on yesterday, be spread upon the minutes of this Board.

I respectfully tender my heartfelt gratitude for your kind resolutions of June 30thpromoting me to be "Emeretis Librarian" with a continuance of my salary of $700 a year for life. In my present helpless condition the salary is more necessary now than at any former period of my life.

In this connection I can not withhold an expression of my gratification that Fred. W. Page was appointed Librarian and Secretary of the Faculty as my Successor. I am well satisfied that from his efficient services as my assistant during several years, that no one could have been selected who is so well qualified to perform the duties as he.

Resolved, that the Proctor be authorized to expend thirty dollars in addition to the two hundred & fifty dollars appropriated for the construction of a Porch to the Pavilion occupied by Prof. Noah K. Davis.

Resolved, that the Board deem it inexpedient to grant the petition of Mrs. Massie & Miss Ross, boarding house keepers for an increase of the rate of board from $18 per month to $20 per month. Which having already gone out to the public giving $18 per month as the price of board and the request is therefore refused.

1\. Resolved, That the Assistants allowed to Professors by the action of the Board of Visitors shall have privileges of free tuition in any of the Schools of the Literary and Scientific Departments of the University on matriculating as students.

2\. Resolved, That the enactment of the General Assembly providing free tuition for Virginia academic students be so construed as to extend to Virginian students in the Department of Engineering the privilege under its conditions of free tuition in all the Academic Schools named in said enactment.

3\. Resolved, that the Faculty as a body be and are hereby authorized in a limited number of cases to extend at their discretion the privilege of free tuition or credit for tuition fees to indigent and deserving young men when in their opinion the best interests of the University may be promoted by such action.

4\. Resolved, that the Proctor is hereby instructed to pay the bill for advertising the Department of Civil and Mining Engineering (amounting to about $80) incurred by Prof. Venable with the approbation of the Rector.

Resolved, that the 5th resolution respecting the McCormick Observatory adopted on the 30th day of June last, be amended so that the portion thereof relating to the salary of Professor of Astronomy shall read as follows:

"The salary of the Professor shall be the same as those of other schools; provided that if the Endowment Fund shall produce an income greater than will pay Three thousand dollars salary, the Salary of the Professor of Astronomy may exceed Three thousand dollars according to the discretion of the Board."

Resolved, that the 6th resolution be amended by striking out the following - "This Fund shall be known as the Vanderbilt Endowment", it being the special request of Mr. Wm. H. Vanderbilt that his name shall not be in any way permanently connected with his donation.

On motion the Board adjourned to the next annual meeting in June 1882, unless sooner convened by call of the Rector.

Dear Sir: I have the honor to make the following Report in regard to the working of the School of Agriculture, Zoology & Botany, & the Experimental Farm.

In accordance with the resolutions of the Trustees of The Miller Board establishing three Agricultural Scholarships; and with the orders of the Board of Visitors to carry out those resolutions, we proceeded immediately to arrange the subjects for the special competitive examinations; and to advertise the fact that they would be held at the close of the first week of the session. The Circulars of advertisement were distributed in all sections of the State & were sent especially to Teachers & the county Superintendents of Public Schools- Notwithstanding this; when the time arrived we had only two candidates- Mr. William H. Seamon from West Virginia & Mr. Samuel Porches from Hanover County Virginia.

These gentlemen having passed the Examinations & obtained the required standard, we accorded one of the Agricultural Scholarships to Mr. Seamon & the other to Mr. William Porches leaving the post graduate scholarship to be taken by Mr. Frank Hampton, as provided and expected. Mr. Hampton did not return to the University, and consequently that Scholarship was vacant. The Scholars then entered upon the studies in my School, but soon afterwards, Mr. Poches applied to me and thence to the Faculty to be allowed to leave the School, on the ground that he was studying Chemistry & the Engineering Course- studies comprised in the Agricultural Department.

The Faculty referred the matter to the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors, & they decided that he could leave the School. This left me with only one student in the School of Agriculture, Mr. Seamon, & three in the Class of Botany.

Mr. Seamon has graduated in the School of Agriculture, Zoology & Botany with high marks, and bids fair to do us great credit. I would advise that in the future the Scholarships be extensively advertised in the Country news-papers, in the State, as well as by Circulars, in order to reach the class of young men for whom they are intended as early in the vacation as possible.

The improvement in the lands of the Experimental Farm is marked and progressive, as shown by the Crops of wheat, corn, grass & clover now growing in the fields. For results of Experiments in wheat, corn and grasses, see reports herewith inclosed. I have a Vineyard of three acres and a half planted, All the vines except the "Norton" are doing well; many of these failed to take root in the first planting, but have been replanted this Spring.

The fencing on the lands of the Experimental Farm - never good - is now in wretched condition, & is a subject of very considerable expense. Although we have a fence law in this County, it is impossible to enforce it and to protect our crops from depredation without proper enclosures. Where the fences are worst I am replacing them with barbed wire and locusts posts twelve feet apart & four strands of wire, at a cost of about forty five cents a pannel of twelve feet. It is obvious that this fencing must take a very considerable amount from the specific appropriation of $500. to the farm & Experimental purposes; and unless special provision is made to meet it, we will inevitably be compelled to curtail our improvements and experiments. Fencing & ditching being permanent improvements, I would ask that one hundred dollars be allowed for the purpose of putting the farm in thorough condition in these respects. The labor bill alone for the past year has taken $400 out of the $500 appropriated, and, but for the sale of hay & other crops at high prices, we would not have been able to have put up any fencing or to have purchased the necessary grass seeds and fertilizers to prosecute the work. In looking over the inclosed Inventory of Property- & Implements, you will perceive that our wheat drill, originally and old second-hand implement, is marked worthless. I would ask therefore & request that a specific appropriation be made for the purchase of a new one of an improved patent. I have in process of preparation about a half acre of land, well suited for corn, to make "Enselage". If it is deemed advisable to carry out this experiment it will be necessary to provide a proper "Silo" or pit, which is also a permanent improvement and will require a specific appropriation.

Mr. James Weannouth, our farm manager, having lately married, finds the two (2) small rooms he has hitherto occupied, insufficient for ordinary comfort. I would therefore recommend that his application for an appropriation, to the amount of one hundred dollars be granted, to make the addition of a kitchen &c.

You will notice in the Inventory of property, that we still have the tile machine and about 5000 tiles on hand, most of these we will require on the farm; but when used will be credited to the tile machine as directed.

In conclusion permit me to ask that the usual appropriation for printing our publications may be allowed, and to say that the 500 copies of the lecture delivered before the Agricultural Society by Assistant Professors, Dunnington & Thornton & myself were published and distributed at my own expense; and that such was the demand for them, that we have only some twenty copies left.

The Brooks Museum is in good condition as well as the specimens; except some stuffed birds which have been attacked by insects. Close attention & frequent "spraying" with carbolic acid solution seems to prevent their injurious effects. The little room known as the "Botanical work room" is utterly useless to me for the want of the necessary articles of furniture. A round table five feet in diameter & a half dozen chairs would supply this want.

I respectfully tender my heartfelt gratitude for your kind resolutions of June 30thpromoting me to be "Emeretis Librarian" with a continuance of my salary of $700 a year for life. In my present helpless condition the salary is more necessary now than at any former period of my life.

In this connection I can not withhold an expression of my gratification that Fred. W. Page was appointed Librarian and Secretary of the Faculty as my Successor. I am well satisfied that from his efficient services as my assistant during several years, that no one could have been selected who is so well qualified to perform the duties as he.

Dear Sir: I have the honor to make the following Report in regard to the working of the School of Agriculture, Zoology & Botany, & the Experimental Farm.

In accordance with the resolutions of the Trustees of The Miller Board establishing three Agricultural Scholarships; and with the orders of the Board of Visitors to carry out those resolutions, we proceeded immediately to arrange the subjects for the special competitive examinations; and to advertise the fact that they would be held at the close of the first week of the session. The Circulars of advertisement were distributed in all sections of the State & were sent especially to Teachers & the county Superintendents of Public Schools- Notwithstanding this; when the time arrived we had only two candidates- Mr. William H. Seamon from West Virginia & Mr. Samuel Porches from Hanover County Virginia.

These gentlemen having passed the Examinations & obtained the required standard, we accorded one of the Agricultural Scholarships to Mr. Seamon & the other to Mr. William Porches leaving the post graduate scholarship to be taken by Mr. Frank Hampton, as provided and expected. Mr. Hampton did not return to the University, and consequently that Scholarship was vacant. The Scholars then entered upon the studies in my School, but soon afterwards, Mr. Poches applied to me and thence to the Faculty to be allowed to leave the School, on the ground that he was studying Chemistry & the Engineering Course- studies comprised in the Agricultural Department.

The Faculty referred the matter to the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors, & they decided that he could leave the School. This left me with only one student in the School of Agriculture, Mr. Seamon, & three in the Class of Botany.

Mr. Seamon has graduated in the School of Agriculture, Zoology & Botany with high marks, and bids fair to do us great credit. I would advise that in the future the Scholarships be extensively advertised in the Country news-papers, in the State, as well as by Circulars, in order to reach the class of young men for whom they are intended as early in the vacation as possible.

The improvement in the lands of the Experimental Farm is marked and progressive, as shown by the Crops of wheat, corn, grass & clover now growing in the fields. For results of Experiments in wheat, corn and grasses, see reports herewith inclosed. I have a Vineyard of three acres and a half planted, All the vines except the "Norton" are doing well; many of these failed to take root in the first planting, but have been replanted this Spring.

The fencing on the lands of the Experimental Farm - never good - is now in wretched condition, & is a subject of very considerable expense. Although we have a fence law in this County, it is impossible to enforce it and to protect our crops from depredation without proper enclosures. Where the fences are worst I am replacing them with barbed wire and locusts posts twelve feet apart & four strands of wire, at a cost of about forty five cents a pannel of twelve feet. It is obvious that this fencing must take a very considerable amount from the specific appropriation of $500. to the farm & Experimental purposes; and unless special provision is made to meet it, we will inevitably be compelled to curtail our improvements and experiments. Fencing & ditching being permanent improvements, I would ask that one hundred dollars be allowed for the purpose of putting the farm in thorough condition in these respects. The labor bill alone for the past year has taken $400 out of the $500 appropriated, and, but for the sale of hay & other crops at high prices, we would not have been able to have put up any fencing or to have purchased the necessary grass seeds and fertilizers to prosecute the work. In looking over the inclosed Inventory of Property- & Implements, you will perceive that our wheat drill, originally and old second-hand implement, is marked worthless. I would ask therefore & request that a specific appropriation be made for the purchase of a new one of an improved patent. I have in process of preparation about a half acre of land, well suited for corn, to make "Enselage". If it is deemed advisable to carry out this experiment it will be necessary to provide a proper "Silo" or pit, which is also a permanent improvement and will require a specific appropriation.

Mr. James Weannouth, our farm manager, having lately married, finds the two (2) small rooms he has hitherto occupied, insufficient for ordinary comfort. I would therefore recommend that his application for an appropriation, to the amount of one hundred dollars be granted, to make the addition of a kitchen &c.

You will notice in the Inventory of property, that we still have the tile machine and about 5000 tiles on hand, most of these we will require on the farm; but when used will be credited to the tile machine as directed.

In conclusion permit me to ask that the usual appropriation for printing our publications may be allowed, and to say that the 500 copies of the lecture delivered before the Agricultural Society by Assistant Professors, Dunnington & Thornton & myself were published and distributed at my own expense; and that such was the demand for them, that we have only some twenty copies left.

The Brooks Museum is in good condition as well as the specimens; except some stuffed birds which have been attacked by insects. Close attention & frequent "spraying" with carbolic acid solution seems to prevent their injurious effects. The little room known as the "Botanical work room" is utterly useless to me for the want of the necessary articles of furniture. A round table five feet in diameter & a half dozen chairs would supply this want.

I respectfully tender my heartfelt gratitude for your kind resolutions of June 30thpromoting me to be "Emeretis Librarian" with a continuance of my salary of $700 a year for life. In my present helpless condition the salary is more necessary now than at any former period of my life.

In this connection I can not withhold an expression of my gratification that Fred. W. Page was appointed Librarian and Secretary of the Faculty as my Successor. I am well satisfied that from his efficient services as my assistant during several years, that no one could have been selected who is so well qualified to perform the duties as he.