Board of Visitors minutes (1890) June 27, 1890
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 27, 1890

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Present Plan.

Modified Plan.

Latin.

Latin.

Greek or Logic.

Greek or Logic.

Math.

Math. or Astronomy

French, Spanish or Italian.

French, Spanish or Italian.

German or English.

German or English.

History.

History.

Chemistry.

any two.

Chemistry.

Physics.

Biology.

Physics

Geology.

Salaries of seventeen Professors $3000.

$51,000.00

Salaries of two Professors $2000.

4 000.00

Salaries of two adjunct professors $1500.

3000.00

Assistant. Common & Statute Law postponed.

Instructor of Ancient Languages

800.00

Instructor in Mathematics

600.00

Instructor in Nat. Philosophy

800.00

Instructor in Engineering

500.00

Instructor in Biology

500.00

Instructor in Chemistry

800.00

Demonstrator of Anatomy

800.00

Asst Demonstrator of Anatomy

150 00

Chairman of the Faculty

500.00

Librarian & Secretary of the Faculty

1000.00

Proctor & Superintendent

2000.00

Secretary to Chairman

600.00

Board of Visitors

225.00

Commr of Accounts

150.00

Janitor & Plumber

600.00

Janitor of Museum

180.00

Chairman's Messenger

120.00

Janitor of Medical Hall

135.00

Labor

1000.00

Astronomical Department

1610.00

Biological Department

1400.00

Interest & Sinking Fund

7220.00

Repairs & Improvements

5000.00

Repairs of Side-walks

4500.00

Library

950.00

Catalogue & Advertising

1250.00

Printing blank forms

150.00

Diplomas

500.00

Fuel & Lights

1000.00

Commutation of rents of 6 Professors

1800.00

Contingent Fund

1500.00

Apparatus - Chemical

300.00

Apparatus - Nat. Philosophy

300.00

Apparatus - Geology

50.00

Apparatus - Engineering

50.00

Apparatus - Anatomical Material

125.00

Medical & Surgical Supplies

150.00

Microscopic supplies

25.00

Microscopes for Dr Barringer

140.00

Apparatus Special to Chemistry

100.00

Fuel & Gas for Laboratories

104.00

Students Reading Room

100.00

Infirmary, all of estimated receipts)

2463.00

Profr Dunnington's New room

1000.00

Engineering Laboratory equipment

3000.00

Furnace for Chemical Hall

400.00

Assaying furnaces etc.

200.00

Mailing expenses on Decennial Catalogue

75.00

Halloway Fire Extinguisher

45.00

For instruction in Microscopy, Histology & Pathology

300.00

Engineering Laboratory

$500.00

Catalogues & Advertising

500.00

For salary of Profr Tuttle

$3000.00

For salary of Profr Thornton

500.00

For salary of Profr Dunnington

500.00

For salary of Profr Tuttle's Assistant

500.00

Equipment of the Department (including the cost of a building for anatomical purposes)

500.00

For the Library of the department

500.00

For the two Scholarships ($250. each)

500.00

6000.00

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held this 27th day of June 1890, the same having been called by the Rector in advance of the stated annual meeting.

Present, W. C. N. Randolph, Rector, and Messrs Bolling, Gordon, Kean, McCormick, Parrish and Patteson. Absent Messrs McCabe & Watts.

The Rector called the Board to order.

The chairman of the Faculty having been informed of the session appeared and submitted the annual reports of the Faculty, the Proctor and the Commissioner of accounts, together with other documents referred to and accompanying the Faculty's report.

On motion the said reports were read to the Board and the various matters presented by the same were referred to the appropriate Committees for their consideration and report thereon to the Board.

A communication was received from Mr Chas T. Coleman, President of the Washington Lit. Society asking an extension of time within which to return the $125. lent the Society by the Board at its last annual meeting which was read and on motion the following resolution was adopted

Resolved, that the time of payment of the sum of $125. loaned to the Washington Society is extended as follows. The one half ($6250) be paid by or before the end of the session of 1890-91, and the residue ($6250) be paid by or before the end of the session of 1891-92.

Resolved, that a sum not exceeding $4500. be appropriated to the renovation of pavements, and that the Proctor be instructed to expend so much of said sum as may be necessary, in renewing with artificial stone, the pavements on the lawn which are estimated at 2000 yards.

A written request was received from Profr W. H. Perkinson to be allowed to begin the work in his school as late as the 10th of October next.

On motion,

Resolved, that the request of Profr be granted.

The following communication was received from Miss Mattie M. Minor, President of the Ladies Chapel Aid Society of the University of Virginia

"At a meeting of the Ladies' Chapel Aid Society of the University of Virginia, Monday, June 16th 1890, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:

Resolved, that the ladies of the Chapel Aid Society, respectfully notify the Honorable Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia of the completion and dedication to the worship of Almighty God of the Chapel which they, aided by the liberality of many friends of the cause, and acting as an auxiliary to the Chapel Building Committee of the Faculty, have lately had the privilege of erecting on the University grounds.

2d That as a society, they herewith transmit to you through the building Committee, their surrender into your care of the structure as it now stands, thus releasing themselves from all future responsibility connected therewith."

"In presenting to you their congratulations on the achievements of this enterprise, designed for the highest good of this noble institution of learning, and, in making the surrender to you of this pet object of their devotion which, for six years, has never flagged in its zeal, the ladies beg to bespeak from the Honorable Board, in behalf of this sanctuary erected to the glory of God, the Eternal Father, and source of wisdom, its beneficent care and protection now, and for all time to come."

"Mattie M. Minor, President etc."

On motion the foregoing communication was referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings to prepare and report a suitable reply to the same.

The Committee reported the following reply, which on motion was unanimously approved and adopted, and the Secretary instructed to transmit a copy thereof to Miss Mattie M. Minor, President etc.

Miss Mattie M. Minor, President of the Ladies Chapel Aid Society of the University of Virginia.

The Committee on Grounds & Buildings, by the direction of the Board of Visitors, have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the letter of the \_\_\_ inst. in which the completion of the Chapel is announced, and the completed Edifice turned over to the care of the Board of Visitors.

Congratulating your society upon the auspicious end of their labors, and the beautiful result, the Board of Visitors accept the care and responsibility of the Chapel and the duty of preserving it, for the holy uses to which it has been dedicated.

A communication was received from Mr R. P. Valentine, President of the C. & A. Street R.way Co. asking permission to enter & extend the railway through the grounds of the University and a like request from Mr S. P. Maury in behalf of his Belt Line R.way, which were read and considered and on motion the following resolution in reply thereto was adopted.

Resolved, that the Secretary be directed to reply to the communications of Messrs S. P. Maury and R. P. Valentine, that it is the sense of this Board that it has no power to grant a right of way to any Railway Company over the lands belonging to the University and that it is without authority in the premises.

A communication was received from Messrs Lankford & Pitcher asking permission of the Board to introduce their telephone system into the grounds of the University. In reply thereto the following resolution was adopted.

Resolved, that the Lankford & Pitcher Telephone Co. be and they are hereby authorized to build and extend their Telephone Line through the grounds of the University of Virginia, subject however to the authority & supervision of the Proctor & Superintendent of Grounds & buildings & revocable at any time by the Board of Visitors.

Communications were received from Mr M. W. Talbot, Profr C. S. Venable and Micajah Woods Esq, respectively, all three of which were on motion referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings as was also done with the communication received from Mr James S. Miller.

A communication was received from Messrs Robertson & others, Committee of Students, asking permission to use the Library for the "german" on Monday morning the 30th inst etc., which was considered and on motion the following resolution was adopted.

Resolved, that the communication of Messrs J. B. Robertson, R. W. Greenway & F. L. Taylor, Committee be referred to the Faculty with the request that they reconsider their action and grant the use of the Library to the students for the Germans to be held on Monday morning the 30th inst. and on the following Tuesday & Wednesday evenings and that said Committee be advised to renew their application to the Faculty.

Resolved, that the new Chapel shall be devoted exclusively to the uses and purposes of religious worship, and that its care and supervision be remitted to the Faculty.

As suggested by the Faculty,

Resolved, that the Proctor be directed to make a careful examination of the condition of the distributing pipes for water within the University grounds and report what improvements as to size or renewal of pipes may be needed and what may be necessary to prevent waste and furnish a sufficient supply of water.

Resolved that the Proctor be directed to purchase the Halloway fire extinguisher to cost not exceeding $45.

On the recommendation of the Faculty report:

Resolved, that R. M. Searcy, Assistant professor of Chemistry, be permitted to take, free of tuition fees, such part of the Medical course, next Session, as the Professor, whose assistant he is, may approve.

On motion the following references were made to committees:

Sections 4, 6 & 9 of the Faculty report to the Finance Committee, the 9th Section to be considered by the Committee in connection with the Faculty's report made to the Board in April last The Committee to report by resolution or otherwise.

The question of professor's salaries being under consideration, on motion.

Resolved, that the salaries of the Professors remain at the present rate for the ensuing session and that the subject of salaries be referred to the Committee on Finance who are directed to make inquiry and report to the next regular meeting of this Board, the systems which obtain in various sections of the Country. Their report to be coupled with such recommendations and suggestions as they may think proper.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet to-morrow at 9 A. M.

W. C. N. Randolph Rector

Jas D. Jones, Secretary.

The Board met this 28th of June 1890, in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday with the addition of Mr McCabe.

The question submitted in the paper marked "Annex B" accompanying the Faculty's report made to the called meeting of the Board in April last being under consideration on motion, the following resolution was adopted.

Resolved, that in response to the paper marked "Faculty report Annex B" the faculty is respectfully referred to sections 17 & 18 of Chapter 1st of the "Laws of the University" with the expression that the Board concur in the view of the Faculty that said sections should be strictly observed, and that Professors should not devote time during the sessions of the University to outside enterprises without the approval of the Board, and with the further expression that the authority granted by law to the Board in the premises should be exercised only in exceptional cases, when in the judgment of the Board its exercise is not detrimental to the University.

Resolved, that the request of Profr W. B. Towles to be allowed to absent himself from the University from the 17th of March next to the 10th of April next, be granted.

Resolved, that the action of the Executive Committee in granting the privilege to S. P. Maury to tap the water main at a point above the grounds of the University for the purpose of conducting water for the use of a hotel he proposes to build at Fry's Spring, be approved.

The appointment of an assistant to Profr John B. Minor being under consideration, on motion the following resolutions 1 & 2 were unanimously adopted

The Board having in view the relief of Professor Minor in the discharge of his arduous duties as well as the desire of keeping the law school at the University abreast of the age, are considering the propriety of establishing an additional chair in the law department to which shall be assigned the subject of Corporation Law and such other subjects as will accomplish the purposes desired and with a view of further consideration of the subject and to give opportunity for a full conference with Profr Minor it is resolved, 1. that the further consideration of the matter be postponed to a meeting to be called by the Rector during the month of August.

2\. Resolved, that a Committee of three, to be named by the ector, be appointed to take into consideration and formulate a plan for the contemplated creation of a chair in the law school to which is to be assigned Corporation law and such other subjects as will tend to give relief to Mr Minor and also to confer with Mr Minor as contemplated by resolution just adopted and said Committee will report to the next meeting of the Board to be called by the Rector.

The Rector appointed as the Committee under the foregoing resolution Messrs Parrish, Kean and McCormick.

Resolved, that Mr Z. W. Coombs be granted a salary of not less than $700. per annum for the session of 1890-91 as Instructor in Physical Culture.

Resolved, that a committee of three, consisting of the Rector and Messrs Kean & Gordon be appointed to consider the communication received from the Miller Board to-day in reference to the $10,000 bond of the University held by that Board, and report to the meeting to be held in August next.

It appearing to the Board from the communication of Profr W. C. Dabney that owing to his restoration to health he is fully able to discharge the clinical duties of his school without further assistance, it is resolved that the position of clinical instructor in the School of Obstetrics and Medicine and Medical Jurisprudence be abolished.

It is further resolved, that the thanks of the Board be tendered to Dr E. M. Magruder for the efficient services rendered by him as clinical instructor in the said school.

The following communication was received from the Miller Board:

At a meeting of the Miller Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia held on the 28th of June 1890, it was resolved, that Mr H. S. Hedges of Charlottesville be and he is hereby nominated to the Board of Visitors as Assistant to Profr A. H. Tuttle.

A copy from the minutes.

A vote was taken on the foregoing nomination and resulted in the unanimous election of Mr. C. H. Hedges as assistant to Profr A. H. Tuttle.

The Board next proceeded to elect a professor of Physiology & Surgery in place of Dr Cabell decd, which chair is now filled by Dr Paul B. Barringer as assistant professor.

Dr Paul B. Barringer was placed in nomination to fill said vacancy and upon a vote thereon he was unanimously elected professor of Physiology & Surgery, but for the period of one year only, commencing with the close of the present session of the University, the election for one year only, being in accordance with the law of the Board of Visitors in case of the election of a professor for the first time.

Messrs Gordon, Kean, Parrish, Randolph and McCabe were elected to constitute the Executive Committee of the Board for the ensuing year.

Profr Wm M. Thornton was nominated to succeed himself as Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year and a vote thereon resulted in his unanimous election.

A communication was received from the Faculty reiterating their opposition to the use of the Library room for dancing, before the end of the session, which was read and on motion the same was ordered to be laid on the table.

Resolved, that the Executive Committee be empowered to appropriate to the Cottage Hospital two hundred dollars, if the number of students of the session of 1890-91 warrant that addition to the appropriations.

Resolved, that so much of Dr Schele's school report as relates to his request to be allowed to deliver a course of lectures on Modern (European) Literature to the classes in French, German, Spanish & Italian, be referred to the Faculty for their recommendation, as such course of lectures may interfere with the schedule of lectures in existing schools.

Whereas the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia has heard with pleasure that the International Committee of the Y. M. C. A., together with the University of Virginia branch of the same Association, have conjointly contributed for the purchase & construction of a "campus" to be devoted to the athletic sports of the students of the University,

Therefore, be it

Resolved first, that the Board of Visitors tenders its hearty thanks to the promoters of the enterprise for this generous provision for the amusement of the students, a provision, which cannot fail to contrubute materially to the physical well-being of the young men here & ultimately advance the interests of the University.

Resolved, second, that the Proctor, so far as he can do so without detriment to any work he may have in hand, be requested to aid the gentlemen in charge of said "Campus" by lending them the carts, workmen etc. of the University, & in any other way his judgment may suggest, said aid to be rendered free of charge.

Resolved third, that a copy of these Resolutions be sent to Profr Noah K. Davis.

On motion the following modication of the B. A. degree was adopted by the Board of Visitors.

The Committee on Grounds and Buildings submitted the following report:

To the Rector and Board of Visitors.

Your Committee would respectfully report, that the suggestion made by the Faculty that "Dormitories on the East Range be assigned to assistant professors or instructors, and the rooms on the lawn be assigned to students" be adopted, and that no exception be made to this rule in favor of gentlemen who are holding the dual relation to the University of student & instructor.

2\. That, the request of Profr Venable & of Mr \_\_ Miller as to their retention of room No. 12 on East Lawn be respectfully refused.

3\. That, it is inexpedient and inadvisable to incur at this time the expense of putting letter boxes in the dormitories.

4\. That, the Proctor be authorized and directed to add to the Chemical Hall a room to be used by the Professor of Analytical Chemistry as a private work room, and that he make such expenditures as may be necessary to heat the Hall with hot air, and to supply such assay furnaces as are necessary for the use of the school.

5\. That it is inadvisable to spend any money in inclosing the piece of land near the coal yard and east of the C. & O. R. R.

6\. That the Proctor be requested to confer with Mr Talbot, or the officers of the Beta Theta Pi Society and designate a site upon which the society may erect a hall, under such restrictions as may be imposed by the Board and report to the next regular meeting of this Board.

7\. That it is inexpedient at present to take any steps looking to the sale of any of the lands of the University, and that the Secretary be instructed to communicate this resolution to R. D. Anderson and to the Charlottesville, Industrial, Land & Improvement Company.

Respectfully submitted

W. H. Bolling

R. G. H. Kean

Marshall McCormick

The report was read and considered and on motion the same, together with its recommendations, was approved and adopted.

The Finance Committee submitted its report and accompanied the same with four resolutions, which report and resolutions read as follows.

To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Gentlemen,

The Committee on Finance respectfully report that the annual report of the Proctor shows a balance in his hands for the fiscal year ending June 30th 1890 of $1854.30

The Executors of Mrs Birely have during the past session paid to the Proctor the residue of the legacy of $500. bequeathed by her to the University, except the sum of $176.63 which balance is still due. The money received has been properly invested and your Committee recommend that the Rector execute the receipt requested by the Executors under the Corporate Seal of the Board.

Your Committee further recommend that a scholar be named for the ensuing session as contemplated by Mrs Birely's will, with an allowance equal to the net income of the fund in hand which will probably be about $224.00.

The estimated receipts for the ensuing year, on the basis of 430 students are $107,374.30.

Your Committee recommend that said sum be appropriated as follows:

As to the further appropriations suggested by the Faculty, we recommend that if there shall be funds in hand to justify it the following additional appropriations be made, to wit=

Your Committee append to this report four resolutions which they recommend shall be adopted.

R. L. Parrish

Camm Pattson

Mason Gordon.

The foregoing report and the resolutions above referred to were read and considered and on motion the report and four resolutions accompanying were approved and adopted—;the resolutions are as follows:

Resolved 1st That the Rector be authorized and instructed to execute the receipt and release requested by the Executors of Mrs Brierly, affixing thereto the corporate seal of the Rector & Visitors of the University.

2d That R. S. B. Smith be appointed to the Birely scholarship for the ensuing session and that the net income of the Brierly fund be credited on his proper expense accounts or delivered to him as in the judgment of the Proctor may be best.

3d That the Faculty be authorized to deduct from the charges for higher diplomas the amounts paid by students respectively for subordinate diplomas and certificates of proficiency.

4th That Mr R. M. Searcy, assistant to the Profr of Chemistry, be permitted to take, free of tuition fees, such part of the medical course next session as the Professor whose assistant he is may approve.

On motion resolved, that the following appropriations recommended by the Miller Board from its funds, for the fiscal year 1890-91, be concurred in by this Board, viz

Resolved, that when the Board adjourns it will adjourn to meet on the 8th of August 1890, at 12 M., at the University.

On motion the Board adjourned to the 8th of August 1890 at 12 M.

The Board met this 28th of June 1890, in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday with the addition of Mr McCabe.

The question submitted in the paper marked "Annex B" accompanying the Faculty's report made to the called meeting of the Board in April last being under consideration on motion, the following resolution was adopted.

Resolved, that in response to the paper marked "Faculty report Annex B" the faculty is respectfully referred to sections 17 & 18 of Chapter 1st of the "Laws of the University" with the expression that the Board concur in the view of the Faculty that said sections should be strictly observed, and that Professors should not devote time during the sessions of the University to outside enterprises without the approval of the Board, and with the further expression that the authority granted by law to the Board in the premises should be exercised only in exceptional cases, when in the judgment of the Board its exercise is not detrimental to the University.

Resolved, that the request of Profr W. B. Towles to be allowed to absent himself from the University from the 17th of March next to the 10th of April next, be granted.

Resolved, that the action of the Executive Committee in granting the privilege to S. P. Maury to tap the water main at a point above the grounds of the University for the purpose of conducting water for the use of a hotel he proposes to build at Fry's Spring, be approved.

The appointment of an assistant to Profr John B. Minor being under consideration, on motion the following resolutions 1 & 2 were unanimously adopted

The Board having in view the relief of Professor Minor in the discharge of his arduous duties as well as the desire of keeping the law school at the University abreast of the age, are considering the propriety of establishing an additional chair in the law department to which shall be assigned the subject of Corporation Law and such other subjects as will accomplish the purposes desired and with a view of further consideration of the subject and to give opportunity for a full conference with Profr Minor it is resolved, 1. that the further consideration of the matter be postponed to a meeting to be called by the Rector during the month of August.

2\. Resolved, that a Committee of three, to be named by the ector, be appointed to take into consideration and formulate a plan for the contemplated creation of a chair in the law school to which is to be assigned Corporation law and such other subjects as will tend to give relief to Mr Minor and also to confer with Mr Minor as contemplated by resolution just adopted and said Committee will report to the next meeting of the Board to be called by the Rector.

The Rector appointed as the Committee under the foregoing resolution Messrs Parrish, Kean and McCormick.

Resolved, that Mr Z. W. Coombs be granted a salary of not less than $700. per annum for the session of 1890-91 as Instructor in Physical Culture.

Resolved, that a committee of three, consisting of the Rector and Messrs Kean & Gordon be appointed to consider the communication received from the Miller Board to-day in reference to the $10,000 bond of the University held by that Board, and report to the meeting to be held in August next.

It appearing to the Board from the communication of Profr W. C. Dabney that owing to his restoration to health he is fully able to discharge the clinical duties of his school without further assistance, it is resolved that the position of clinical instructor in the School of Obstetrics and Medicine and Medical Jurisprudence be abolished.

It is further resolved, that the thanks of the Board be tendered to Dr E. M. Magruder for the efficient services rendered by him as clinical instructor in the said school.

The following communication was received from the Miller Board:

At a meeting of the Miller Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia held on the 28th of June 1890, it was resolved, that Mr H. S. Hedges of Charlottesville be and he is hereby nominated to the Board of Visitors as Assistant to Profr A. H. Tuttle.

A copy from the minutes.

The Board met this 28th of June 1890, in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday with the addition of Mr McCabe.

The question submitted in the paper marked "Annex B" accompanying the Faculty's report made to the called meeting of the Board in April last being under consideration on motion, the following resolution was adopted.

Resolved, that in response to the paper marked "Faculty report Annex B" the faculty is respectfully referred to sections 17 & 18 of Chapter 1st of the "Laws of the University" with the expression that the Board concur in the view of the Faculty that said sections should be strictly observed, and that Professors should not devote time during the sessions of the University to outside enterprises without the approval of the Board, and with the further expression that the authority granted by law to the Board in the premises should be exercised only in exceptional cases, when in the judgment of the Board its exercise is not detrimental to the University.

Resolved, that the request of Profr W. B. Towles to be allowed to absent himself from the University from the 17th of March next to the 10th of April next, be granted.

Resolved, that the action of the Executive Committee in granting the privilege to S. P. Maury to tap the water main at a point above the grounds of the University for the purpose of conducting water for the use of a hotel he proposes to build at Fry's Spring, be approved.

The appointment of an assistant to Profr John B. Minor being under consideration, on motion the following resolutions 1 & 2 were unanimously adopted

The Board having in view the relief of Professor Minor in the discharge of his arduous duties as well as the desire of keeping the law school at the University abreast of the age, are considering the propriety of establishing an additional chair in the law department to which shall be assigned the subject of Corporation Law and such other subjects as will accomplish the purposes desired and with a view of further consideration of the subject and to give opportunity for a full conference with Profr Minor it is resolved, 1. that the further consideration of the matter be postponed to a meeting to be called by the Rector during the month of August.

2\. Resolved, that a Committee of three, to be named by the ector, be appointed to take into consideration and formulate a plan for the contemplated creation of a chair in the law school to which is to be assigned Corporation law and such other subjects as will tend to give relief to Mr Minor and also to confer with Mr Minor as contemplated by resolution just adopted and said Committee will report to the next meeting of the Board to be called by the Rector.

The Rector appointed as the Committee under the foregoing resolution Messrs Parrish, Kean and McCormick.

Resolved, that Mr Z. W. Coombs be granted a salary of not less than $700. per annum for the session of 1890-91 as Instructor in Physical Culture.

Resolved, that a committee of three, consisting of the Rector and Messrs Kean & Gordon be appointed to consider the communication received from the Miller Board to-day in reference to the $10,000 bond of the University held by that Board, and report to the meeting to be held in August next.

It appearing to the Board from the communication of Profr W. C. Dabney that owing to his restoration to health he is fully able to discharge the clinical duties of his school without further assistance, it is resolved that the position of clinical instructor in the School of Obstetrics and Medicine and Medical Jurisprudence be abolished.

It is further resolved, that the thanks of the Board be tendered to Dr E. M. Magruder for the efficient services rendered by him as clinical instructor in the said school.

The following communication was received from the Miller Board:

At a meeting of the Miller Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia held on the 28th of June 1890, it was resolved, that Mr H. S. Hedges of Charlottesville be and he is hereby nominated to the Board of Visitors as Assistant to Profr A. H. Tuttle.

A copy from the minutes.