Board of Visitors minutes (1893) June 12, 1893
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 12, 1893

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Appropriations.Salaries of Officers.Scholarships & Fellowships.Wages of Employes.Working Expenses.General Expenses.Special Appropriations.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We recommend the following appropriations, to wit:

Salaries of 18 Professors $3000.00 each

$ 54 000.00

Salaries of 2 Professors 2000.00 each

4 000.00

Salaries of 1 Adjunct Profr 1500.00

1 500.00

Salaries of 2 Adjunct Profr 1800.00 (Dab. & Per.)

3 600.00

Salary of assistant in Law

1 000.00

Salary of assistant in Chemistry

1 000.00

Salary of assistant in Natural Philosophy

1 000.00

Salary of assistant in Pathology & Histology

1 000.00

Salary of assistant in Ancient Languages

800.00

Salary of assistant in Mathematics

800.00

Salary of assistant in Biology

800.00

Salary of assistant in Mechanical Engineering

650.00

Salary of assistant in French & German

600.00

Salary of assistant in Civil Engineering

500.00

Salary of assistant in Demonstrator of Anatomy

1 000.00

Salary of assistant in Assist. Demonstrator of Anatomy

150.00

Salary of assistant in Director of Gymnasium

1 000.00

Total salaries of Corps of Instruction

$ 73,400.00

Salary of Chairman of the Faculty

$ 500.00

Salary of Proctor

2 000.00

Salary of Superintendent of Buildings & Grounds

700.00

Salary of Secretary of Chairman of the Faculty

800.00

Salary of Commr of Accounts

150.00

Salary of Librarian

800.00

Salary of Secretary of Board of Visitors

225.00

Total Salaries of Officers

$ 5,175.00

For Miller Scholarships (two $250. each)

$ 500.00

Birely Scholarship

300.00

Brown Scholarship

120.00

Carey Scholarship

360.00

Mason Fellowship

210.00

$ 1 490.00

Wages of Janitor & Plumber

$ 600.00

Wages of Day & Night Watchman

600.00

Wages of Janitor of Rotunda

300.00

Wages of Janitor of Chemical Laboratory

135.00

Wages of Janitor Museum

180.00

Wages of Janitor Gymnasium

225.00

Wages of Janitor Anatomical Hall

240.00

Wages of Janitor Medical Hall

135.00

Wages of Janitor Annex

135.00

Wages of Janitor Dispensary

100.00

Wages of Chairman's Messenger

120.00

Laborers

1 000.00

Total for wages

$ 3,770.00

To the McCormick Observatory

$ 1 610.00

To the Agricultural (Miller) Department

700.00

To the Chemical Department

350.00

To the Physical Department

300.00

To the Mechanical Laboratory

250.00

To Anatomical Material

200.00

To Natural History (Brooks) Museum

50.00

To Dispensary

400.00

To Library

1 000.00

To Students reading room

200.00

To Diplomas

700.00

To Printing blanks etc.

150.00

To Catalogues

900.00

To Advertising

1 200.00

To Gymnasium

50.00

To Fuel

630.00

To Lights

775.00

To Fuel gas for Laboratories

200.00

Total for Working Expenses

$ 9,665.00

To Interest & Sinking Fund

$ 7 220.00

To Repairs & Improvements

5 000.00

To Commutation of rents

2 140.00

To Reservoir tax

150.00

To Contingent fund

1 500.00

Total for General Expenses

$ 16,010.00

For new ice house and pipes

$ 300.00

For apparatus for Fire Department

100.00

For Insurance Gymnasium July 1 1896

180.00

For Electrical Laboratory

400.00

For Mechanical Laboratory

50.00

For Pathological Laboratory

250.00

For Obsterical appliances & material

125.00

Total Special Appropriations

$ 1 405.00

Summary of Income and Expenditures.

Income, including balance from last year.

$112,861.66

Expenses.

Salaries Corps of Instruction

$73,400.00

Salaries of Officers

5 175.00

Scholarships & Fellowships

1 490.00

Wages of Employes

3 770.00

Working Expenses

9 665.00

General Expenses

16,010.00

Special Appropriations

1 405.00

110,915.00

Balance unappropriated

$ 1 946.66

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met in annual session this 12th day of June 1893.

Present Dr W. C. N. Randolph, Rector and Messrs Parrish, McCabe, R. W. Martin, McCormick, Patteson, T. S. Martin and Gordon, of the Visitors. Absent Mr Kean who who wrote to the Rector that he was prevented from attending by engagements in the S. Court of Appeals of Va.

The Rector after calling the Board to order read a communication from Profr John B. Minor in the following words and figures, to wit:

Knowing as you do, my physical condition you will not be surprised at the contents of this letter. My work during the session of the University, has hitherto embraced a daily lecture of an hour and a half besides multiform incidental engagements. My son's assistance has been very valuable to me, and to the students, but without much lightening my labors. Now however, the state of my health will oblige me to devolve on him a more important part of the instruction in the school of Common and Statute Law, than thus far has falled to his share, and I desire to submit to the Board of Visitors, through you, the propriety of enlarging his compensation to the sum I believe originally proposed for my assistant, namely $1500.

I believe parental partiality does not lead me to exaggerate his qualifications, when I say that I believe him amply capable of discharging satisfactorily, the duties which would devolve on him, maintaining, and in due time advancing, the reputation of the school, I have indeed for several years past, evinced practically, my opinion of his ability as a teacher of law, by paying him $200. a month to assist me in my summer work, and have found my account in so doing in the increased number of my summer-students.

Supposing the Visitors to accede to my proposal, I should expect to assign to my son, something like one half of the work of the School, retaining the residue for myself, together with a close supervision of his operations, and an occasional substitution of my personal instruction for his. These plans however would have to be the subject of future arrangement, according to the results of experience, and of trial and error. With great respect and regard I am Truly yours, John B. Minor. Dr W. C. N. Randolph,

Rector etc., Charlottesville, Va.

On motion the following resolution was adopted by a unanimous vote:

Resolved that the Communication of Profr J. B. Minor to the Rector in relation to increasing the salary of J. B. Minor, Jr, and all other matters relating to the School of law at the University be referred to the following named Committee, to wit: Messrs Kean, Parrish, T. S. Martin, Patteson and McCormick, who will report at an adjourned meeting of the Board to be held on July 20th, next.

The following resolutions were adopted:

Resolved, that the salaries of the adjunct Profesors in the Schools of Historical Science and Modern Languages be each increased by the sum of Three Hundred Dollars, to begin with the next session.

Resolved, that Professors Garnett and Kent be requested to report to the Board at the adjourned meeting in July what they may consider a proper division of the work in their respective schools.

Resolved, that Dr. W. C. Dabney be allowed to practice medicine during the next session, provided that he shall not allow his practice to interfere with the duties of his chair.

The Board on motion took up the annual report of the Faculty, and the same was read & considered.

Resolved that the Board of Health be authorized to use not exceeding $300. during the next session from the appropriations for repairs and improvements in such improvements as said Board may deem necessary to promote the health of the University premises.

Resolved that each physician in the Medical Department, and each occupant of University premises be required, and that each physician not connected with the University, practicing on University premises, be requested to report promptly to the Board of Health any case of infectious or contagious disease that may fall under his notice within the University limits.

Resolved that the Superintendent of grounds and buildings be made an ex-officio member of the Board of Health.

Resolved that the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings be instructed to take such steps as may be necessary to remove the University stables to a point at which their drainage will not contaminate the water of the University pond, the expense thereof to be paid out of the $5000.00 appropriation for repairs and improvements.

Resolved that the Professor of Anatomy be authorized to appoint a second assistant of anatomy provided no cost be incurred by the University except the use of a dormitory which is granted.

Resolved that the salary of the Instructor in Physical culture for the next session be increased to one thousand dollars.

Resolved that a fee of thirty dollars be charged each student on matriculation instead of $25. as heretofore fixed, of which $5. shall be for the maintenance of the Gymnasium.

Resolved that section Eight of the report of the Faculty be referred to the Rector with the request that he ascertain and report to the Board at its next meeting the best arrangement the Board can make with the Charlottesville officials for its joint management of the reservoir and grounds and appurtenances.

Resolved that the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings be required to make occasional inspection of the Reservoir and appurtenances and that he endeavor to restrict the use of the same to the purposes for which they are designed.

Resolved that the buildings hereafter erected on University premises shall be located under the advice of the Board of Health.

In regard to section 10 of the report of the Faculty in reference to the sanitary arrangements of the Kitchen and pantry sinks at one of the Mess-Halls, and of one of the Students water closets=

Resolved that the Board of Health be instructed to report to the meeting of the Board of Visitors to be held on the 20th of July what changes, if any, are necessary at said points for sanitary purposes.

Resolved that section Eleventh of the report of the Faculty be referred to the Executive Committee with instructions to take such steps in the premises as said Committee may deem proper.

Resolved that the sum of twelve hundred dollars be appropriated to advertising for the next session.

Resolved that $5000. be appropriated for repairs and improvements for the ensuing year.

Resolved that Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings be instructed to have made an accurate map of the University grounds at a cost not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars to be paid out of the fund appropriated to repairs and improvements.

Resolved that hereafter all students boarding at the University hotels or Mess-Halls be required to pay their board to the Proctor quarterly in advance, provided any such student may change his hotel at the end of any fiscal month upon giving notice of his purpose to do so to the Chairman.

Resolved that hereafter the department fee in Medicine be fixed at $120. per session of which $10. shall be paid to the School of Anatomy for each student of practical Anatomy, and $3. to the School of Biology for each student of Bacteriology and $5. for each student of Histology.

Resolved that Geo. H. Hughes be relieved from the payment of tuition and matriculation fees.

Resolved that the salary of the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings for the next year be fixed at Seven Hundred Dollars and commutation of rent, the Board being of opinion that the duties of said Superintendent, as heretofore defined, properly embrace the additional duties referred to in the report of the Faculty.

Resolved that the fund on hand belonging to the Library of $1275. be applied to the construction of a card catalogue, and that the appropriation for the ensuing session to the Library fund be one thousand dollars, and that it be applied exclusively to the purchase of books and periodicals.

Resolved that the recommendation of the Faculty that the M. A. diplomas be signed only by the professors in whose schools examinations have been passed on both the M. A. & the B. A. courses, be approved and adopted.

Resolved that the entire appropriation for labor and for servants' hire as well as those for repairs and for improvements be hereby placed under the exclusive control of the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, and that he be charged with the delivery of fuel, the collection and delivery of ice, the lighting and heating of grounds and buildings, and the hire of janitors and other servants, the Proctor remaining in charge of the purchase of coal, the sale of coal tickets, collection of gas bills, etc.

The Board adjourned until tomorrow at 9 1/2 A. M.

June 13th 1893

The Board met pursuant to the adjournment on yesterday.

Present, the same members as on yesterday, with the exception of Mr Gordon. The following resolutions were adopted:

Resolved that Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings be authorized to do the extra work on the Gymnasium recommended by the Architects and costing not exceeding the sum of $674.11

A communication was received from Messrs. Carpenter and Peebles in the following words and figures to wit:

Your Architects beg, 1st To acknowledge their error in the assumption that aught but your appreciation of their position could lead to their relief.

2d To throw themselves completely at the mercy of the Board in this matter.

3d To ask most earnestly that if the Board can possibly do so, it will pass a resolution for their relief at this meeting, so that they can pay the contractors the money long since due them, and which they are unable themselves to do. We have the honor to be very truly yours

And the Board having duly considered the matter involved and being of opinion that the extra cost of excavation for the foundation of the Gymnasium, amounting to the sum of Fifteen hundred and Eighty four 28/100 dollars, resulted from conditions of the material involved that could not be anticipated, and for which the said Carpenter and Peebles are not to blame, it is thefore \[sic\] resolved that the Proctor, on the warrant of the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings be hereby authorized to pay the extra cost of said excavation amounting to the sum above named.

It being represented by Carpenter and Peebles, Architects that a clerical error in favor of the University of $100. was made in the addition of the several items making up their bid for the Gymnasium it is resolved that the Proctor be directed to pay them the said sum of $100. if on inspection he finds the same was made.

On motion the petition filed to have the University made a Co-educational institution was ordered to lie over for consideration at the next meeting of the Board.

Resolved that the petition of Mr A. C. Jones to be allowed a special Examination on Anatomy and Obstetrics during the next session, and further to be allowed to enter the University the session of '93-94 on the (6)/26th of March next and finish the course and apply for the degree of Doctor of Medicine, be granted.

Resolved that the application of Gordon Paxton to be allowed to substitute B. A. Moral Philosophy for B. A. History in his M. A. course, be granted.

A petition of James H. Gilmore, Jr, accompanied by two letters from Profr John B. Minor, was presented, in which petition he prays the Board to be allowed to take the degree of B. L. this session from which he claims to have been excluded by the action of the Faculty. The same was read and considered by the Board, and in connection therewith the statements of Profr Thornton, Chairman of the Faculty, and Mr. Gilmer the petitioner, who were present together before the Board at its request, touching the matter of complaint set forth in the petition. The following action was had thereto:

Mr Parrish offered the following resolution.

Resolved, that the Board, without meaning to criticize in any way the action of the Faculty in the case of Mr James H. Gilmore, Jr, would be gratified if they will allow him, in June a special examination in the subjects in which they deem it necessary for him to be examined in order to attain the degree of Bachelor of Law, and that they confer on him the said degree if he shall successfully pass the said examination, for this resolution Mr McCormick offered the following as a substitute.

Without meaning in any way to reflect upon the action of the faculty in expelling James H. Gilmore, Jr, because of intoxication at Lynchburg on the occasion of a match game of base ball, and not meaning this to be taken hereafter as a precedent but under the peculiar circumstances of this case it is the opinion of the Visitors in view of the punishment already imposed upon and suffered by the said Gilmore which the Visitors think sufficient, that he should be reinstated as a Student at the University and the faculty is requested to reinstate him. After his reinstatement Resolved that he be permitted to take his B. L. degree upon such new examinations as may be fixed by the faculty provided such new examinations be not later than June 18th 1893, and the faculty is empowered in their discretion to accept the reports of Profrs Minor and Gilmore upon the private examinations already stood by said Jas H. Gilmore, Jr, in lieu of further examination.

On motion the vote was taken on the adoption of the substitute by ayes and nos which resulted as follows:

Ayes 4, viz, Messrs McCormick, Patteson, T.S. & R.W. Martin

Nos 3, viz, Messrs McCabe, Parrish and the Rector. The substitute was declared adopted.

Resolved that the petition of Mr James H. Gilmore, Jr, referred to in the foregoing proceedings together with the said two letters of Profr Minor be spread upon the minutes of the Board. To the Hon. Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia. I respectfully appeal to be allowed to take the degree of Bachelor of Law at the University this session, from which I have been excluded by the action of the Faculty. I have for five years last past been a student of the University, and in that time I have never been called before the Faculty for any violation of the rules of the University, except by a mistaken report of absences which my Professor corrected as soon as their attention was called to it. My conduct during that time, as far as the University was concerned, has been blameless until the last of April of the present session when I was called up, charged with being intoxicated on one occasion at Lynchburg.

This charge I admitted, and I was required to withdraw from the University. On appeal to the Faculty to be allowed, after suspension, to stand my B. L. examinations, they, on the 31st of May, declined to allow me to do so.

On the suggestion of Mr Minor, who sent me word to stand his examination and he would give me a private certificate if I passed satisfactorily, I stood the B. L. examination under the rules and regulations of the University. The method of private examinations has frequently been approved by the Faculty in various cases, notably in the case of Mr Hines, an applicant for B. L. this session. I have stood and passed satisfactorily all the examinations of the law course of the University, and will receive from the Professors of law private certificates which show that I am qualified by my legal attainments to take the the degree, and the petition of my fellow students of the law class, both addressed to the Chairman of the Faculty, bear testimony of my studiousness, behavior and acquirements. I also refer to the letter of Professor Minor addressed to Your Honorable Board and filed herewith.

The Faculty were somewhat embarassed by the fact that I was the son of a Professor, and I believe that they were prevented from in any way mitigating their sentence by that fact. It has been suggested by the Chairman and the Faculty that I return next session to take the degree, but for private reasons this is impossible, and I submit that if there is no reason to prevent my taking the degree next session, there is none to disqualify me from doing so this session.

Respectfully submitted James H. Gilmore, Jr.

Law Department University of Virginia, June 11th 1893

Gentlemen, Having been told that the friends of Mr James H. Gilmore, Junr, desire to appeal from a sentence of the Faculty, excluding him, on account of his having been publicly drunk, from the privilege of standing this regular examinations for the degree of Bachelor of Law, I beg to say that so far as I have had the opportunity to observe, his general conduct during the present session, has been unexceptionable, his attendance upon my lectures very punctual and uniform, and his recitations excellent. His answers at the intermediate examinations, held in writing were also excellent. I have the honor to be, with great respect your obedt servt

To Messrs

John B. Minor.

The Rectors & Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Having learned that you desire to know whether in my opinion, Mr Jas H. Gilmore, Jr. has manifested such an acquaintance with the law as to warrant me in signing his diploma should the Board signify a willingness to admit him to the degree, I would answer unhesitatingly yes. Mr Gilmore's daily recitations were more than usually satisfactory, as were also his intermediate examinations, averaging above 5/6 the And his answers to the questions propounded for the degree (which were given privately, but under due safeguard), amounted also, to more than 5/6 ths.

Resolved that the charges on the Proctor's books against the ladies Chapel Aid society for Gas, lights and repairs at the Chapel, amounting to $70 80 be remitted, the same having been expended for the Chapel, and constituting a proper charge against the University.

Resolved that dormitory no 11 on West Lawn be assigned to the student appointed to superintend the Students reading room, provided such assignment can be made so as not to conflict with any existing claim of any student to said dormitory.

Resolved that Room No. 16 on East Lawn be assigned to Profr J. H. Gilmore, and no. 14 on the same to Prof. Perkinson.

Resolved that in accordance with the recommendation of the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings the present existing appropriation of $80. per month for police purposes be continued.

Resolved that the request of Dr J. E. Chancelor to make an ice-pond on the University grounds be denied.

Resolved, that the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings be requested to examine the Old Gymnasium and the building called the Temperance Hall, and the road in front of the East Range and report to the adjourned meeting of the Board as follows:

1 Whether these buildings, or either of them can be utilized either as offices for the Faculty or any of them or for rooms for students.

2 The cost of necessary changes in both cases.

3 The status of the building called the Temperance Hall and if the building is subject to the control and use of the University.

4 The advisability and cost of changing the road in front of East Range, and what change he would suggest, and his reasons therefor.

Resolved that the resolution of the reinstatement of James H. Gilmore, Jr, as a student of the University heretofore adopted and the two letters of Profr Minor which together with the petition of said Gilmore have previously been spread in the minutes of this meeting, be forthwith copied by the Secretary and furnished to the Chairman of the Faculty with the request that he lay the said copies of said resolution and letters before the Faculty.

Resolved that the recommendation of the Faculty in Section 18 of their report is hereby ordered, to wit: Experience has shown that the course in Science of Society is suited to the capacity of post graduate rather than under graduate students. It demands for its effectual pursuit a certain maturity of mind, power of independent and even original thought, and also extended collateral reading. It is recommended therefore that the course in Political Economy (with three lectures a week) being retained, as at present, in the B. A. scheme, that in Science of Society (with two lectures a week and assigned collateral work) be offered only to candidates for the Ph. D. and other students of adequate training. Also, that candidates for Ph. D. who are graduates in B. A. and M. A. History, and elect Historical Science as a minor, may take advance work in History or in Science of Society, but if they elect Historical Science as the Major, they shall be required to pursue advanced courses in both the subjects named.

A communication was received from Mrs Burthe tendering her resignation as Keeper of one of the University Hotels, and also presenting an account against the University amounting to $512.75 for improvements and repairs which she claims to have made from time to time to the premises, commencing in 1885, which being considered on motion it was

Resolved that the resignation of Mrs Burthe as Keeper of one of the Hotels be accepted, and it appearing that there is an unsettled and disputed account of Mrs Burthe against the University, and that even if an effort were made it is very doubtful if anything could be made out of her, it is further resolved that the Proctor be directed to settle with her by allowing her account as a set-off against the account due by her to the University, provided this shall be a full settlement.

Resolved that Hotel vacated by Mrs Burthe be rented to Mrs L. S. Gunther, and that the Proctor be directed to contract with her upon the same terms as those upon which Mrs Burthe rented it.

Resolved that it is the sense of the Visitors that they have not the lawful power to grant the application of the Base Ball team for aid to attend the intercollegiate tournament at Chicago, and they feel obliged reluctantly to decline their request.

Resolved that the application of W. A. Lambeth & R. D. Anderson in the interest of the Athletics of the University be postponed until the adjourned meeting in July.

The application of the Dawson Investment Co for the privilege of running a pipe through the University grounds is postponed until the adjourned meeting in July.

The following members of the Board were nominated and elected as the Executive Committee for the ensuing year, viz= Dr Randolph, the Rector, and Messrs Parrish, Kean, T. S. Martin and McCabe.

Profr Wm M. Thornton was reelected Chairman of the Faculty, for the ensuing year, by a unanimous vote.

The Board next took up for consideration the special report submitted by the Medical Faculty, and thereupon it was 1 Resolved that special examinations for graduation be hereafter done away with so far as the Medical Department is concerned, except in extreme cases such examinations may be held whenever the Faculty may so determine, and at such times and places as they think proper. But that there shall be held two regular sets of graduating examinations, one at the time now observed, and the other in the early part of the session (about the second or third week of the session), both in writing, and with all the forms now in use (as to Committees of Examination etc.). That at these Fall examinations all such students shall be entitled to present themselves as have failed to stand one or more of these graduating examinations in the previous session for reasons (such as sickness, loss of near relations etc.), which would now entitle them to a special examinations, these students not necessarily matriculating for the commencing University year. That, further, any such first year student of the medical department as shall have successfully completed the work of two full schools, and made a creditable percentage in another subject or subjects, without fully attaining therein the standard required for graduation, may, after regularly matriculating, be allowed to present himself at the regular fall examinations next following, and, if he then attain the standard required for graduation, shall go on with the work of the second year.

2 That the subject of Medical Jurisprudence be transferred to the list of those assigned to the second year.

The Finance Committee submitted its Report which was read and motion it was resolved that it be approved and adopted and the same is in the following words and figures, to wit:

Report of the Finance Committee

Gentlemen, The Committee on Finance respectfully reports that the Proctor's annual Report and the settlement made by the Commissioner of of Accounts show a balance in the hands of the Proctor for the fiscal year ending June 15th 1893 of $5125.66. This sum does not include $1275.00 which is a part of the appropriation made to the Library last year and which was not expended. This latter sum stands on the Proctor's books to the credit of the Library fund.

The income of the University for the ensuing year from its various sources, including an estimated income of $1200. from the Fayerweather bequest, and the income from students' fees estimated upon a basis of 460 students, amounts to the sum of 107,736.00. Adding to this sum last named the balance of $5125.66 in the hands of the Proctor from last year, we have the sum of $112,861.66 as the available fund for the ensuing year. The sources of said fund will appear from the report of the Proctor and the report of the Faculty taken together.

The Committee would call attention to the fact that the Board has placed the sum of $300.00 under the control of the Board of Health, and has also appropriated $250.00 to pay for a map of the University grounds, and has charged these two sums upon the fund devoted to Improvements and Repairs. They are therefore omitted from the list of special appropriations.

On motion the Board adjourned to the 20th of July 1893.

Knowing as you do, my physical condition you will not be surprised at the contents of this letter. My work during the session of the University, has hitherto embraced a daily lecture of an hour and a half besides multiform incidental engagements. My son's assistance has been very valuable to me, and to the students, but without much lightening my labors. Now however, the state of my health will oblige me to devolve on him a more important part of the instruction in the school of Common and Statute Law, than thus far has falled to his share, and I desire to submit to the Board of Visitors, through you, the propriety of enlarging his compensation to the sum I believe originally proposed for my assistant, namely $1500.

I believe parental partiality does not lead me to exaggerate his qualifications, when I say that I believe him amply capable of discharging satisfactorily, the duties which would devolve on him, maintaining, and in due time advancing, the reputation of the school, I have indeed for several years past, evinced practically, my opinion of his ability as a teacher of law, by paying him $200. a month to assist me in my summer work, and have found my account in so doing in the increased number of my summer-students.

Supposing the Visitors to accede to my proposal, I should expect to assign to my son, something like one half of the work of the School, retaining the residue for myself, together with a close supervision of his operations, and an occasional substitution of my personal instruction for his. These plans however would have to be the subject of future arrangement, according to the results of experience, and of trial and error. With great respect and regard I am Truly yours, John B. Minor. Dr W. C. N. Randolph,

Rector etc., Charlottesville, Va.

On motion the following resolution was adopted by a unanimous vote:

Resolved that the Communication of Profr J. B. Minor to the Rector in relation to increasing the salary of J. B. Minor, Jr, and all other matters relating to the School of law at the University be referred to the following named Committee, to wit: Messrs Kean, Parrish, T. S. Martin, Patteson and McCormick, who will report at an adjourned meeting of the Board to be held on July 20th, next.

The following resolutions were adopted:

Resolved, that the salaries of the adjunct Profesors in the Schools of Historical Science and Modern Languages be each increased by the sum of Three Hundred Dollars, to begin with the next session.

Resolved, that Professors Garnett and Kent be requested to report to the Board at the adjourned meeting in July what they may consider a proper division of the work in their respective schools.

Resolved, that Dr. W. C. Dabney be allowed to practice medicine during the next session, provided that he shall not allow his practice to interfere with the duties of his chair.

The Board on motion took up the annual report of the Faculty, and the same was read & considered.

Resolved that the Board of Health be authorized to use not exceeding $300. during the next session from the appropriations for repairs and improvements in such improvements as said Board may deem necessary to promote the health of the University premises.

Resolved that each physician in the Medical Department, and each occupant of University premises be required, and that each physician not connected with the University, practicing on University premises, be requested to report promptly to the Board of Health any case of infectious or contagious disease that may fall under his notice within the University limits.

Resolved that the Superintendent of grounds and buildings be made an ex-officio member of the Board of Health.

Resolved that the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings be instructed to take such steps as may be necessary to remove the University stables to a point at which their drainage will not contaminate the water of the University pond, the expense thereof to be paid out of the $5000.00 appropriation for repairs and improvements.

Resolved that the Professor of Anatomy be authorized to appoint a second assistant of anatomy provided no cost be incurred by the University except the use of a dormitory which is granted.

Resolved that the salary of the Instructor in Physical culture for the next session be increased to one thousand dollars.

Resolved that a fee of thirty dollars be charged each student on matriculation instead of $25. as heretofore fixed, of which $5. shall be for the maintenance of the Gymnasium.

Resolved that section Eight of the report of the Faculty be referred to the Rector with the request that he ascertain and report to the Board at its next meeting the best arrangement the Board can make with the Charlottesville officials for its joint management of the reservoir and grounds and appurtenances.

Resolved that the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings be required to make occasional inspection of the Reservoir and appurtenances and that he endeavor to restrict the use of the same to the purposes for which they are designed.

Resolved that the buildings hereafter erected on University premises shall be located under the advice of the Board of Health.

In regard to section 10 of the report of the Faculty in reference to the sanitary arrangements of the Kitchen and pantry sinks at one of the Mess-Halls, and of one of the Students water closets=

Resolved that the Board of Health be instructed to report to the meeting of the Board of Visitors to be held on the 20th of July what changes, if any, are necessary at said points for sanitary purposes.

Resolved that section Eleventh of the report of the Faculty be referred to the Executive Committee with instructions to take such steps in the premises as said Committee may deem proper.

Resolved that the sum of twelve hundred dollars be appropriated to advertising for the next session.

Resolved that $5000. be appropriated for repairs and improvements for the ensuing year.

Resolved that Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings be instructed to have made an accurate map of the University grounds at a cost not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars to be paid out of the fund appropriated to repairs and improvements.

Resolved that hereafter all students boarding at the University hotels or Mess-Halls be required to pay their board to the Proctor quarterly in advance, provided any such student may change his hotel at the end of any fiscal month upon giving notice of his purpose to do so to the Chairman.

Resolved that hereafter the department fee in Medicine be fixed at $120. per session of which $10. shall be paid to the School of Anatomy for each student of practical Anatomy, and $3. to the School of Biology for each student of Bacteriology and $5. for each student of Histology.

Resolved that Geo. H. Hughes be relieved from the payment of tuition and matriculation fees.

Resolved that the salary of the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings for the next year be fixed at Seven Hundred Dollars and commutation of rent, the Board being of opinion that the duties of said Superintendent, as heretofore defined, properly embrace the additional duties referred to in the report of the Faculty.

Resolved that the fund on hand belonging to the Library of $1275. be applied to the construction of a card catalogue, and that the appropriation for the ensuing session to the Library fund be one thousand dollars, and that it be applied exclusively to the purchase of books and periodicals.

Resolved that the recommendation of the Faculty that the M. A. diplomas be signed only by the professors in whose schools examinations have been passed on both the M. A. & the B. A. courses, be approved and adopted.

Resolved that the entire appropriation for labor and for servants' hire as well as those for repairs and for improvements be hereby placed under the exclusive control of the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, and that he be charged with the delivery of fuel, the collection and delivery of ice, the lighting and heating of grounds and buildings, and the hire of janitors and other servants, the Proctor remaining in charge of the purchase of coal, the sale of coal tickets, collection of gas bills, etc.

The Board adjourned until tomorrow at 9 1/2 A. M.

Your Architects beg, 1st To acknowledge their error in the assumption that aught but your appreciation of their position could lead to their relief.

2d To throw themselves completely at the mercy of the Board in this matter.

3d To ask most earnestly that if the Board can possibly do so, it will pass a resolution for their relief at this meeting, so that they can pay the contractors the money long since due them, and which they are unable themselves to do. We have the honor to be very truly yours

Having learned that you desire to know whether in my opinion, Mr Jas H. Gilmore, Jr. has manifested such an acquaintance with the law as to warrant me in signing his diploma should the Board signify a willingness to admit him to the degree, I would answer unhesitatingly yes. Mr Gilmore's daily recitations were more than usually satisfactory, as were also his intermediate examinations, averaging above 5/6 the And his answers to the questions propounded for the degree (which were given privately, but under due safeguard), amounted also, to more than 5/6 ths.

Appropriations.Salaries of Officers.Scholarships & Fellowships.Wages of Employes.Working Expenses.General Expenses.Special Appropriations.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We recommend the following appropriations, to wit:

Salaries of 18 Professors $3000.00 each

$ 54 000.00

Salaries of 2 Professors 2000.00 each

4 000.00

Salaries of 1 Adjunct Profr 1500.00

1 500.00

Salaries of 2 Adjunct Profr 1800.00 (Dab. & Per.)

3 600.00

Salary of assistant in Law

1 000.00

Salary of assistant in Chemistry

1 000.00

Salary of assistant in Natural Philosophy

1 000.00

Salary of assistant in Pathology & Histology

1 000.00

Salary of assistant in Ancient Languages

800.00

Salary of assistant in Mathematics

800.00

Salary of assistant in Biology

800.00

Salary of assistant in Mechanical Engineering

650.00

Salary of assistant in French & German

600.00

Salary of assistant in Civil Engineering

500.00

Salary of assistant in Demonstrator of Anatomy

1 000.00

Salary of assistant in Assist. Demonstrator of Anatomy

150.00

Salary of assistant in Director of Gymnasium

1 000.00

Total salaries of Corps of Instruction

$ 73,400.00

Salary of Chairman of the Faculty

$ 500.00

Salary of Proctor

2 000.00

Salary of Superintendent of Buildings & Grounds

700.00

Salary of Secretary of Chairman of the Faculty

800.00

Salary of Commr of Accounts

150.00

Salary of Librarian

800.00

Salary of Secretary of Board of Visitors

225.00

Total Salaries of Officers

$ 5,175.00

For Miller Scholarships (two $250. each)

$ 500.00

Birely Scholarship

300.00

Brown Scholarship

120.00

Carey Scholarship

360.00

Mason Fellowship

210.00

$ 1 490.00

Wages of Janitor & Plumber

$ 600.00

Wages of Day & Night Watchman

600.00

Wages of Janitor of Rotunda

300.00

Wages of Janitor of Chemical Laboratory

135.00

Wages of Janitor Museum

180.00

Wages of Janitor Gymnasium

225.00

Wages of Janitor Anatomical Hall

240.00

Wages of Janitor Medical Hall

135.00

Wages of Janitor Annex

135.00

Wages of Janitor Dispensary

100.00

Wages of Chairman's Messenger

120.00

Laborers

1 000.00

Total for wages

$ 3,770.00

To the McCormick Observatory

$ 1 610.00

To the Agricultural (Miller) Department

700.00

To the Chemical Department

350.00

To the Physical Department

300.00

To the Mechanical Laboratory

250.00

To Anatomical Material

200.00

To Natural History (Brooks) Museum

50.00

To Dispensary

400.00

To Library

1 000.00

To Students reading room

200.00

To Diplomas

700.00

To Printing blanks etc.

150.00

To Catalogues

900.00

To Advertising

1 200.00

To Gymnasium

50.00

To Fuel

630.00

To Lights

775.00

To Fuel gas for Laboratories

200.00

Total for Working Expenses

$ 9,665.00

To Interest & Sinking Fund

$ 7 220.00

To Repairs & Improvements

5 000.00

To Commutation of rents

2 140.00

To Reservoir tax

150.00

To Contingent fund

1 500.00

Total for General Expenses

$ 16,010.00

For new ice house and pipes

$ 300.00

For apparatus for Fire Department

100.00

For Insurance Gymnasium July 1 1896

180.00

For Electrical Laboratory

400.00

For Mechanical Laboratory

50.00

For Pathological Laboratory

250.00

For Obsterical appliances & material

125.00

Total Special Appropriations

$ 1 405.00

Summary of Income and Expenditures.

Income, including balance from last year.

$112,861.66

Expenses.

Salaries Corps of Instruction

$73,400.00

Salaries of Officers

5 175.00

Scholarships & Fellowships

1 490.00

Wages of Employes

3 770.00

Working Expenses

9 665.00

General Expenses

16,010.00

Special Appropriations

1 405.00

110,915.00

Balance unappropriated

$ 1 946.66

Gentlemen, The Committee on Finance respectfully reports that the Proctor's annual Report and the settlement made by the Commissioner of of Accounts show a balance in the hands of the Proctor for the fiscal year ending June 15th 1893 of $5125.66. This sum does not include $1275.00 which is a part of the appropriation made to the Library last year and which was not expended. This latter sum stands on the Proctor's books to the credit of the Library fund.

The income of the University for the ensuing year from its various sources, including an estimated income of $1200. from the Fayerweather bequest, and the income from students' fees estimated upon a basis of 460 students, amounts to the sum of 107,736.00. Adding to this sum last named the balance of $5125.66 in the hands of the Proctor from last year, we have the sum of $112,861.66 as the available fund for the ensuing year. The sources of said fund will appear from the report of the Proctor and the report of the Faculty taken together.

The Committee would call attention to the fact that the Board has placed the sum of $300.00 under the control of the Board of Health, and has also appropriated $250.00 to pay for a map of the University grounds, and has charged these two sums upon the fund devoted to Improvements and Repairs. They are therefore omitted from the list of special appropriations.

Knowing as you do, my physical condition you will not be surprised at the contents of this letter. My work during the session of the University, has hitherto embraced a daily lecture of an hour and a half besides multiform incidental engagements. My son's assistance has been very valuable to me, and to the students, but without much lightening my labors. Now however, the state of my health will oblige me to devolve on him a more important part of the instruction in the school of Common and Statute Law, than thus far has falled to his share, and I desire to submit to the Board of Visitors, through you, the propriety of enlarging his compensation to the sum I believe originally proposed for my assistant, namely $1500.

I believe parental partiality does not lead me to exaggerate his qualifications, when I say that I believe him amply capable of discharging satisfactorily, the duties which would devolve on him, maintaining, and in due time advancing, the reputation of the school, I have indeed for several years past, evinced practically, my opinion of his ability as a teacher of law, by paying him $200. a month to assist me in my summer work, and have found my account in so doing in the increased number of my summer-students.

Supposing the Visitors to accede to my proposal, I should expect to assign to my son, something like one half of the work of the School, retaining the residue for myself, together with a close supervision of his operations, and an occasional substitution of my personal instruction for his. These plans however would have to be the subject of future arrangement, according to the results of experience, and of trial and error. With great respect and regard I am Truly yours, John B. Minor. Dr W. C. N. Randolph,

Rector etc., Charlottesville, Va.

On motion the following resolution was adopted by a unanimous vote:

Resolved that the Communication of Profr J. B. Minor to the Rector in relation to increasing the salary of J. B. Minor, Jr, and all other matters relating to the School of law at the University be referred to the following named Committee, to wit: Messrs Kean, Parrish, T. S. Martin, Patteson and McCormick, who will report at an adjourned meeting of the Board to be held on July 20th, next.

The following resolutions were adopted:

Resolved, that the salaries of the adjunct Profesors in the Schools of Historical Science and Modern Languages be each increased by the sum of Three Hundred Dollars, to begin with the next session.

Resolved, that Professors Garnett and Kent be requested to report to the Board at the adjourned meeting in July what they may consider a proper division of the work in their respective schools.

Resolved, that Dr. W. C. Dabney be allowed to practice medicine during the next session, provided that he shall not allow his practice to interfere with the duties of his chair.

The Board on motion took up the annual report of the Faculty, and the same was read & considered.

Resolved that the Board of Health be authorized to use not exceeding $300. during the next session from the appropriations for repairs and improvements in such improvements as said Board may deem necessary to promote the health of the University premises.

Resolved that each physician in the Medical Department, and each occupant of University premises be required, and that each physician not connected with the University, practicing on University premises, be requested to report promptly to the Board of Health any case of infectious or contagious disease that may fall under his notice within the University limits.

Resolved that the Superintendent of grounds and buildings be made an ex-officio member of the Board of Health.

Resolved that the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings be instructed to take such steps as may be necessary to remove the University stables to a point at which their drainage will not contaminate the water of the University pond, the expense thereof to be paid out of the $5000.00 appropriation for repairs and improvements.

Resolved that the Professor of Anatomy be authorized to appoint a second assistant of anatomy provided no cost be incurred by the University except the use of a dormitory which is granted.

Resolved that the salary of the Instructor in Physical culture for the next session be increased to one thousand dollars.

Resolved that a fee of thirty dollars be charged each student on matriculation instead of $25. as heretofore fixed, of which $5. shall be for the maintenance of the Gymnasium.

Resolved that section Eight of the report of the Faculty be referred to the Rector with the request that he ascertain and report to the Board at its next meeting the best arrangement the Board can make with the Charlottesville officials for its joint management of the reservoir and grounds and appurtenances.

Resolved that the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings be required to make occasional inspection of the Reservoir and appurtenances and that he endeavor to restrict the use of the same to the purposes for which they are designed.

Resolved that the buildings hereafter erected on University premises shall be located under the advice of the Board of Health.

In regard to section 10 of the report of the Faculty in reference to the sanitary arrangements of the Kitchen and pantry sinks at one of the Mess-Halls, and of one of the Students water closets=

Resolved that the Board of Health be instructed to report to the meeting of the Board of Visitors to be held on the 20th of July what changes, if any, are necessary at said points for sanitary purposes.

Resolved that section Eleventh of the report of the Faculty be referred to the Executive Committee with instructions to take such steps in the premises as said Committee may deem proper.

Resolved that the sum of twelve hundred dollars be appropriated to advertising for the next session.

Resolved that $5000. be appropriated for repairs and improvements for the ensuing year.

Resolved that Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings be instructed to have made an accurate map of the University grounds at a cost not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars to be paid out of the fund appropriated to repairs and improvements.

Resolved that hereafter all students boarding at the University hotels or Mess-Halls be required to pay their board to the Proctor quarterly in advance, provided any such student may change his hotel at the end of any fiscal month upon giving notice of his purpose to do so to the Chairman.

Resolved that hereafter the department fee in Medicine be fixed at $120. per session of which $10. shall be paid to the School of Anatomy for each student of practical Anatomy, and $3. to the School of Biology for each student of Bacteriology and $5. for each student of Histology.

Resolved that Geo. H. Hughes be relieved from the payment of tuition and matriculation fees.

Resolved that the salary of the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings for the next year be fixed at Seven Hundred Dollars and commutation of rent, the Board being of opinion that the duties of said Superintendent, as heretofore defined, properly embrace the additional duties referred to in the report of the Faculty.

Resolved that the fund on hand belonging to the Library of $1275. be applied to the construction of a card catalogue, and that the appropriation for the ensuing session to the Library fund be one thousand dollars, and that it be applied exclusively to the purchase of books and periodicals.

Resolved that the recommendation of the Faculty that the M. A. diplomas be signed only by the professors in whose schools examinations have been passed on both the M. A. & the B. A. courses, be approved and adopted.

Resolved that the entire appropriation for labor and for servants' hire as well as those for repairs and for improvements be hereby placed under the exclusive control of the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, and that he be charged with the delivery of fuel, the collection and delivery of ice, the lighting and heating of grounds and buildings, and the hire of janitors and other servants, the Proctor remaining in charge of the purchase of coal, the sale of coal tickets, collection of gas bills, etc.

The Board adjourned until tomorrow at 9 1/2 A. M.

Your Architects beg, 1st To acknowledge their error in the assumption that aught but your appreciation of their position could lead to their relief.

2d To throw themselves completely at the mercy of the Board in this matter.

3d To ask most earnestly that if the Board can possibly do so, it will pass a resolution for their relief at this meeting, so that they can pay the contractors the money long since due them, and which they are unable themselves to do. We have the honor to be very truly yours

Having learned that you desire to know whether in my opinion, Mr Jas H. Gilmore, Jr. has manifested such an acquaintance with the law as to warrant me in signing his diploma should the Board signify a willingness to admit him to the degree, I would answer unhesitatingly yes. Mr Gilmore's daily recitations were more than usually satisfactory, as were also his intermediate examinations, averaging above 5/6 the And his answers to the questions propounded for the degree (which were given privately, but under due safeguard), amounted also, to more than 5/6 ths.

Appropriations.Salaries of Officers.Scholarships & Fellowships.Wages of Employes.Working Expenses.General Expenses.Special Appropriations.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We recommend the following appropriations, to wit:

Salaries of 18 Professors $3000.00 each

$ 54 000.00

Salaries of 2 Professors 2000.00 each

4 000.00

Salaries of 1 Adjunct Profr 1500.00

1 500.00

Salaries of 2 Adjunct Profr 1800.00 (Dab. & Per.)

3 600.00

Salary of assistant in Law

1 000.00

Salary of assistant in Chemistry

1 000.00

Salary of assistant in Natural Philosophy

1 000.00

Salary of assistant in Pathology & Histology

1 000.00

Salary of assistant in Ancient Languages

800.00

Salary of assistant in Mathematics

800.00

Salary of assistant in Biology

800.00

Salary of assistant in Mechanical Engineering

650.00

Salary of assistant in French & German

600.00

Salary of assistant in Civil Engineering

500.00

Salary of assistant in Demonstrator of Anatomy

1 000.00

Salary of assistant in Assist. Demonstrator of Anatomy

150.00

Salary of assistant in Director of Gymnasium

1 000.00

Total salaries of Corps of Instruction

$ 73,400.00

Salary of Chairman of the Faculty

$ 500.00

Salary of Proctor

2 000.00

Salary of Superintendent of Buildings & Grounds

700.00

Salary of Secretary of Chairman of the Faculty

800.00

Salary of Commr of Accounts

150.00

Salary of Librarian

800.00

Salary of Secretary of Board of Visitors

225.00

Total Salaries of Officers

$ 5,175.00

For Miller Scholarships (two $250. each)

$ 500.00

Birely Scholarship

300.00

Brown Scholarship

120.00

Carey Scholarship

360.00

Mason Fellowship

210.00

$ 1 490.00

Wages of Janitor & Plumber

$ 600.00

Wages of Day & Night Watchman

600.00

Wages of Janitor of Rotunda

300.00

Wages of Janitor of Chemical Laboratory

135.00

Wages of Janitor Museum

180.00

Wages of Janitor Gymnasium

225.00

Wages of Janitor Anatomical Hall

240.00

Wages of Janitor Medical Hall

135.00

Wages of Janitor Annex

135.00

Wages of Janitor Dispensary

100.00

Wages of Chairman's Messenger

120.00

Laborers

1 000.00

Total for wages

$ 3,770.00

To the McCormick Observatory

$ 1 610.00

To the Agricultural (Miller) Department

700.00

To the Chemical Department

350.00

To the Physical Department

300.00

To the Mechanical Laboratory

250.00

To Anatomical Material

200.00

To Natural History (Brooks) Museum

50.00

To Dispensary

400.00

To Library

1 000.00

To Students reading room

200.00

To Diplomas

700.00

To Printing blanks etc.

150.00

To Catalogues

900.00

To Advertising

1 200.00

To Gymnasium

50.00

To Fuel

630.00

To Lights

775.00

To Fuel gas for Laboratories

200.00

Total for Working Expenses

$ 9,665.00

To Interest & Sinking Fund

$ 7 220.00

To Repairs & Improvements

5 000.00

To Commutation of rents

2 140.00

To Reservoir tax

150.00

To Contingent fund

1 500.00

Total for General Expenses

$ 16,010.00

For new ice house and pipes

$ 300.00

For apparatus for Fire Department

100.00

For Insurance Gymnasium July 1 1896

180.00

For Electrical Laboratory

400.00

For Mechanical Laboratory

50.00

For Pathological Laboratory

250.00

For Obsterical appliances & material

125.00

Total Special Appropriations

$ 1 405.00

Summary of Income and Expenditures.

Income, including balance from last year.

$112,861.66

Expenses.

Salaries Corps of Instruction

$73,400.00

Salaries of Officers

5 175.00

Scholarships & Fellowships

1 490.00

Wages of Employes

3 770.00

Working Expenses

9 665.00

General Expenses

16,010.00

Special Appropriations

1 405.00

110,915.00

Balance unappropriated

$ 1 946.66

Gentlemen, The Committee on Finance respectfully reports that the Proctor's annual Report and the settlement made by the Commissioner of of Accounts show a balance in the hands of the Proctor for the fiscal year ending June 15th 1893 of $5125.66. This sum does not include $1275.00 which is a part of the appropriation made to the Library last year and which was not expended. This latter sum stands on the Proctor's books to the credit of the Library fund.

The income of the University for the ensuing year from its various sources, including an estimated income of $1200. from the Fayerweather bequest, and the income from students' fees estimated upon a basis of 460 students, amounts to the sum of 107,736.00. Adding to this sum last named the balance of $5125.66 in the hands of the Proctor from last year, we have the sum of $112,861.66 as the available fund for the ensuing year. The sources of said fund will appear from the report of the Proctor and the report of the Faculty taken together.

The Committee would call attention to the fact that the Board has placed the sum of $300.00 under the control of the Board of Health, and has also appropriated $250.00 to pay for a map of the University grounds, and has charged these two sums upon the fund devoted to Improvements and Repairs. They are therefore omitted from the list of special appropriations.