Board of Visitors minutes (1895) November 4, 1895
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

November 4, 1895

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a called meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on the 4th of November 1895.

Present, the Rector, and Visitors, Watts, McCabe, Patteson, McCormick, R. W. Martin, T. S. Martin, A. C. Gordon and R. T. Irvine, a full board.

Hon. John E. Massey, Superintendent of Public Instruction was present on the invitation of the Rector. Profr Wm M. Thornton, Chairman of the Faculty appeared and placed before the Board a report of the Faculty, dated October 31st 1895, addressed to the Board and reporting the grievous disaster which befell the University on the 27th of October 1895, when the Rotunda, the Annex and much of their valuable contents were destroyed by fire. A copy of this report will appear further on in the minutes of this meeting.

The report of the Faculty having been read and considered, the following resolutions were offered and adopted by a unanimous vote -

1\. Resolved, that the report of the Faculty bearing date the 31st of October 1895, be received, and that the same be approved and adopted in its general outline, with leave to the committee hereafter appointed to modify or alter the scheme proposed, in its details, as shall appear necessary hereafter; and that said report be spread on the minutes.

2\. Resolved, that a Building Committee to be composed of the Rector and Messrs W. Gordon McCabe and A. C. Gordon of the Visitors, and Professors Wm M. Thornton, and W. H. Echols of the Faculty shall have charge of carrying out the Execution of the Faculty's report as above provided.

3\. Resolved, that said Committee at once secure the services of Messrs McDonald Brothers, Architects, of Louisville, Ky, and with their advice and assistance proceed to rebuild the Rotunda and the Wings thereof, and demolish the ruins of the annex and construct the esplanade, as provided in said Faculty report.

4\. Resolved, that said Building Committee be and they are hereby authorized to secure the services of a thoroughly competent and distinguished architect or architects in the preparation of plans for the erection of the Building intended to contain the Public Hall and Academic lecture rooms; but in providing said plans said architect or architects shall not be limited to the scheme of said building suggested in the Faculty report, but may adopt such others as may commend themselves to the judgment of said architect or architects, subject to the approval of said Building Committee; and said plans, as soon as completed, shall be reported to a called meeting of the Board.

5\. Resolved, that said Committee shall be authorized to select the site for said Public Hall and lecture room building, subject to the ratification and approval of the Board.

6\. Resolved, that the said Committee, so far as they may find it expedient to do so, may employ an architect or architects to submit plans for the other buildings contemplated in said Faculty report, to be in turn submitted by the Committee for the consideration of the Board at its next meeting.

7\. Resolved, that for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of these resolutions, the Fayerweather money now in hand or invested, the money to be realized from the insurance on burnt buildings, and the donations of the Alumni and friends of the University, be, as far as necessary, appropriated.

The report of the Faculty is in the following words and figures:

The Faculty have to report to you in official form the grievous disaster which has befallen our University. The fire of the 27th October 1895, breaking out in the rear of the top story of the Annex, tho' soon discovered, speedily passed beyond control and in spite of the devoted efforts of our officers, faculty, students, friends and neighbors continued its work of ruin until the Annex, the Rotunda, a large part of their contents, and the wings connecting the Rotunda with the Lawns were either burned or wrecked.

An investigation of the causes of the disaster will be made at as early a date as possible. It is doubtful whether its origin will ever be securely established. Yet such enquiries as have been made serve to convince us that the disaster can be ascribed to no lack of care on the part of our officials or servitors, but is one of those dark lessons in the discipline of life, beneath which we must bow in humility and faith. It is a painful but perhaps a salutary lesson to us in showing that we must no longer depend solely upon external aid for subduing such conflagrations, and we shall recommend below that one of your first acts be to develop some systematic and thorough internal system of fire protection for our buildings,

The Faculty will proceed at once to study the proper details of such a system and desires to report upon the same to your Board at an early day.

It is fitting that we put on record in this paper our lively sense of gratitude for the gallantry and devotion of our students, the prompt and unstinted aid of our neighbours, including many noble women, the generous readiness of the Southern and the C. & O. R. R. Companies to bring a trained fire service to our rescue, and the alacrity with which the Fire Departments of Charlottesville, Staunton, Lynchburg and Richmond flew to help us. The services of the railway and fire companies were rendered generously and gratuitously, and we recommend that Your Board consider the propriety of making some pecuniary acknowledgment of the same.

Amid all our dismay in presence of this vast disaster we have the consolation of remembering that its risks and dangers were endured with the loss of no life, and we trust with no serious damage to the health of any of our brave assistants. The imagination of fatalities that might have befallen some of them makes us almost forget our material loss.

We are happy also to report to your Board that the work of the University of Virginia has suffered no interruption and will continue without break. It is prosecuted amid some difficulties and some discouragements, but all are cheerfully borne. We feel assured that your Board, facing the emergency with a like spirit, will unite with us in the most active and earnest efforts not simply to restore the beauty and conveniences of our establishment, but to increase its usefulness by providing facilities more ample and splendid than we have here- tofore enjoyed for our Scholastic work.

Animated by this conviction we have given careful and minute attention to the details of plans for rebuilding. We have, with the authorization of the Rector, called in as consulting Architect Mr McDonald of Louisville, Ky, and have availed ourselves of his professional experience and knowledge in clearing our views upon the state of the ruined buildings and estimating the approximate cost of improvement, without however involving your Board in any expressed or implied agreement to employ him further. We have also been taught by the disaster, which has befallen us, the danger and impolicy of the system of construction followed in our old public building, and recommend to you a strict adherance to the general plan of fireproof construction and isolated buildings. With these preliminary points established we proceed to recommend to your Board the following specific action.

I. That the ruins of the Annex be at once demolished, the useful building material be removed to such new site as your Board may select for the proposed Academical building (see IV below), and the depression occupied by the old building filled with earth. The Faculty is convinced that the original construction of the Annex was an architectural blunder and the restoration upon the old site would invite a repetition of our present disaster. It was a building devoid of true architectural merit and very costly for the accommodation secured.

The direct loss consequent upon its removal will not exceed $250000. The indirect loss occasioned by its old location has exceeded $100,000.00. We trust that no thought of its restoration will be entertained.

II. That the two wings to the Rotunda be at once reconstructed in their former proportions, but of fire-proof materials, and assigned to the use of the library and the School of Natural Philosophy respectively. The remnants of our library, stored temporarily in cellars and garrets, are now collecting on the floor of the Natural History Museum; but for any real use by professors or students, the books must be shelved in some accessible apartment. The condition of our Philosophical Apparatus in the same way renders the work of instruction exceedingly difficult and extravigantly laborious. Finally the enforced use of the Museum as a place of deposit for these objects has made it necessary to close this building entirely to visitors.

III. That the Visitors engage a competent architect, and instruct him to prepare plans for the restoration of the Rotunda, but in fire-proof materials. The walls of this building need little repair, but should be at once protected against damage from weather. The Faculty feels that the original propositions of the Central building should be religiously observed, but recommend that a new portico should be erected on the North side corresponding to that on the South, with proper flights of steps descending to the esplanade to be formed over the site of the old Annex, and thence at the Ramparts to the level of the ground. The Faculty also respectfully calls the attention of the Visitors to the fact that the old Library room had become so crowded with books that the orderly arrangement of them was impossible, and the consequent utility of the collection was seriously impaired. They therefore recommend that the Architect be instructed to so design the interior of the building that the whole of the capacity from the dome down to the portico floor may hereafter be really and simply utilizable for library purposes, and they request that he be also instructed to consult with their Library Committee as to the details of this design. They also advise that the Architect be instructed to give especial attention to the problems of heating, lighting, and ventilation, which in the old building were inadequately solved. Believing that the funds requisite for this reconstruction are already on hand or immediately in sight, they recommend that the work of design be pushed rapidly to its completion and the work of construction begun at the earliest practicable moment.

IV. That the Architect of the Board be instructed to propose plans for a new Academical Building to contain as its central member a public hall, designed in the horse-shoe or theatrical form, and two wings each with six lecture rooms of sizes suitable for large and small classes. The Faculty recommends that the Visitors select at this session the site for said building in order that complete designs may be prepared and accurate estimates be made of the cost of construction, and inasmuch as it is in the last degree important that such building should be completed before September 1896, that the work of the next session may be effectually prosecuted, they advise that as soon as funds for the completion are obtained (estimated at about $90,000.) the contracts for construction be immediately let.

V. That the Architect be directed to prepare, under the advice of the Professor of Natural Philosophy, plans for a Physical Laboratory to be erected on such a site as the Board may at this session select. The Faculty have expressed in former reports their conviction that more ample provision should be made for the important School of Natural Philosophy. The desirability of a specially constructed and isolated building for delicate physical experimentation is obvious. Rooms for elementary and advanced instruction in Physics and especially for Electrical and Magnetic measurements should be free from sensible tremors and the last should be remote from attracting metalic masses. Preliminary estimates show that all these advantages are obtainable at a cost not exceeding $30,000. which sum our assiduous efforts will probably be able to raise.

VI. That the Architect be directed to prepare under advice of the Professors of Applied Mathematics and Engineering, plans for an Engineering building to be erected on such a site as the Board may select. An establishment involving necessarily the existence of coal sheds, boiler house, engine room, and so on, ought on grounds of safety to be isolated from all others. Preliminary estimates show that a building adequate for the present needs of the University and providing for considerable growth, will cost less than $30,000. The sum of $25,000. has already been promised toward its equipment with laboratory appliances.

VII. That the Architect be directed to prepare, under the advice of the Professors of Law, plans for a Law building to be erected on such a site as the Board may select. The growth of the Law School justifies this recommendation and the Faculty believes that its future prosperity will be thus powerfully advanced. The quarters of the Law professors have long been a reproach to us. The estimated cost of this building is not over $20,000. It would be possible, though by no means easy or safe, for the work of the University to go on without the three last buildings. But the Rotunda and the general Academical Building are really necessary for our success, and we feel that they must be secured. The buildings for Physics, Engineering and Law are arranged in the order of relative importance and the Board is advised to observe this order in their erection, if but one can be erected at a time.

VIII. The Faculty is deeply impressed with the propriety of following in these new buildings classical types of design and of locating them so as to create a harmonious combination with the original Jeffersonian group. As we examine the additions made to this system by Jefferson's successors, we are forced to confess with a certain shame that not one of them has added in the least degree to the harmony and beauty and magnificence of the original composition. We recommend, therefore, that the Visitors select as their professional adviser a man not of local repute only but of broad and national consideration, that he be instructed to consider in his designs not merely the convenience and elegance of the single structure, but its effect as a member of our general architectural system, and that he submit to your Board a comprehensive scheme which shall embody his advice on the location not only of the buildings recommended in this report but also of such additional dormitories, hospital buildings, official quarters and so on as the Visitors may contemplate. The study of our grounds as a problem of landscape gardening should at the same time receive some attention.

IX. In view of the fact that the next building season may require as to complete a large amount of work within a brief time, we recommend that the Superintendent be instructed to proceed at once with preparations for the manufacture of such a number of bricks of thoroughly good quality as the Architect may advise in addition to the supply saved from the Annex. By selecting the brickfield promptly, digging out the earth, raking it over and screening it if necessary, and letting it weather through the cold season, we shall obtain a better brick than can be purchased in the local market and at a far lower price.

X. Finally we desire to recommend as above indicated the provision of a special and effective fire-service for the University, and to advise that the Superintendent be authorized to study the details of such systems, in conjunction with a Committee of the Faculty, to advise with your Architect thereon, and to report his conclusion to your Board.

While we have proceeded in making the above recommendations upon a broad and generous hypothesis as to the present and future needs of our University, we believe that we have done no more than wisdom dictates. Yet we are not oblivious of the difficulties of the financial problem arising out of the poverty of our beloved state and the limited fortunes of our Alumni. We believe, nevertheless, that our present devastated condition will be in itself a powerful appeal to the sympathies of every friend of learning, that the example of a judicious liberality and undaunted spirit, if set here, will be contagious; and that a bold and frank appeal to the Legislature will meet with a response alike generous and kind. The new buildings and restorations necessary for the needs of our present and our immediate future will cost about $250,000., or $200,000 more than our present resources. We would respectfully recommend that the sum of $200,000. be at least asked from the State for buildings, leaving the generosity of private gifts to perfect our equipment. But whatever be the success of this appeal, we pledge to the Visitors our unvarying and earnest efforts to rehabilitate the University and ask from them their unwavering support in our plans and labors for its welfare.

Forwarded by order of the Faculty, 4th Nov. 1895.

The following resolutions were severally adopted by unanimous votes:

Resolved, that the Superintendent of Buildings & Grounds be authorized to construct a cheap temporary shed for the storage of the machinery of the Engineering department heretofore contained in the Annex to the Rotunda, such shed to be so located as not to disfigure the ground or endanger existing buildings.

Resolved, that it is the sense of this Board that the Alumni of the University and friends of Education should be urged to exert every effort to supplement whatever aid may be rendered by the State to restore the burned buildings and Equipments of the University; and that to this end the Alumni Associations in the several cities of the Country be requested to hold as soon as practicable, public meetings to which all friends of education shall be invited to take such immediate steps as may commend themselves, to obtain subscriptions for the purposes named.

Resolved, that the several Alumni Associations in the state be requested to memorialize the Legislature to make as liberal an appropriation as possible towards rebuilding and reequipping the University; and that said Associations appoint Committees to appear before the Legislature at its ensuing session for the purpose of presenting such memorials.

Resolved, that the Secretary of the Board cause to be printed five hundred copies of these resolutions for distribution among said Alumni Associations.

Resolved, that Visitors, Mashall McCormick, W. Gordon McCabe, L. R. Watts and R. Tate Irvine be appointed a Committee to confer with the Governor in reference to recommending an appropriation for replacing the buildings recently destroyed at the University.

1\. Resolved, that Wm M. Thornton be relieved from duty as Chairman of the Faculty and Professor of Applied Mathematics until further order of the Board, or until he shall find it inexpedient further to pursue the objects contemplated, and be authorized to solicit contributions from the Alumni of this University and other friends of the School for the rebuilding and reequipment of the University.

2\. That Professor W. Minor Lile be appointed chairman pro tempore to act during the absence of the Chairman, with the advice of the Committee on Discipline, and that he shall be clothed with all the usual powers and responsibilities of the Chairman of the Faculty and shall receive for such service payment out of the funds of the University at the rate of $125.00 per quarter, but this extra payment to Mr Lile shall not deprive the Chairman of his salary.

3\. That Adjunct Professor, W. H. Echols be appointed acting head of the School of Applied Mathematics in full charge of the course of instruction, which shall be conducted by him during the absence of the Professor with such assistance as he may call upon Mr George M. Reek, Instructor in Applied Mathematics, to render.

4\. That the Chairman be authorized in his canvass to call upon any member of the Board or of the Faculty for such assistance and suggestion as he may be able and willing to render; to invite the cooperation of the Executive Committee of the General Society of Alumni and of the Officers and members of the Local Associations; to accept donations either absolute or conditional, subject in the latter case to the approval of the Executive Committee of the Board; and to draw on the Proctor for necessary expenses incurred in the prosecution of the work, submitting with each draft an itemized account of said expenses.

5\. That Visitors T. S. Martin, M. McCormick, Legh R. Watts, R. Tate Irvine and W. Gordon McCabe, be appointed a Committee on behalf of the Visitors and Profrs Walter D. Dabney, William E. Peters, and W. Minor Lile a Committee on behalf of the Faculty, and that these gentlemen be re- requested to adopt such proper and honourable measures as may seem effectual to produce in the members of the Legislature a favorable disposition towards the University, and in particular to appear (upon invitation) before the Committees on Schools and Colleges and upon Finance and give them full information as to the present condition, the future plans, and the best methods for advancing the interests of the University by Legislative action.

Resolved, that the cordial and earnest thanks of the Board of Visitors be and they are hereby extended to the Faculty and Students of the University and the ladies and citizens of Charlottesville and the County of Albemarle, the Fire Companies of Charlottesville, Staunton, Lynchburg and Richmond, and the Southern and the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Companies for their conduct on the occasion of the fire which destroyed the Rotunda and Annex on the 27th of October 1895: and while appreciating at its highest worth the services of every individual on that unfortunate occasion, the Board especially desires to put on record its appreciation of the heroic efforts made by the Faculty and students to extinguish the fire, and their prompt, energetic and willing continuance of the lectures and duties of the University after the conflagration.

Resolved, that the Rector be requested to answer the letter from Messrs Eugene C. Massie, George Wayne Anderson and Edward P. Valentine, the business committee of the local Alumni of Richmond city, to the Rector, and this day laid before the Board, and to thank them on behalf of the Board for the interest they have taken and for the suggestions in reference to the restoration of the buildings recently destroyed by fire.

The suggestions aforesaid are as follows:

1\. That the Rotunda should be restored or reproduced perhaps on a larger scale, there being no deviation from the former relative proportions.

2\. That an easily accessible, detached, fire proof building should be erected for the exclusive use of a comprehensive reference library, It being generally conceded that our former library was inaccessible and of little practical value to the student, although exceedingly interesting to the antiquarian.

Resolved, that the Visitors acknowledge with grateful appreciation the offer of Mrs Mary E. Lewis, through Capt Camm Patteson, Visitor, to furnish the marble from her quarries for the rebuilding of the lately destroyed buildings of the University, and they beg to assure her that when material to be used in the proposed new buildings is considered, her generous proposal will be duly taken into consideration.

Resolved, that the thanks of this Board be extended to Hon. John E. Massey, Superintendent of Public Instruction, who was present at this meeting on the invitation of the Rector, for his attenance upon the meeting and for his valuable advice and suggestions.

On motion of Mr Patteson,

Resolved, that the Alumni of the University of Virginia be and they are hereby requested to form associations for the purpose of aiding in the rebuilding of the University of Va.

Resolved, that a copies of the report of the Faculty made to the present called meeting of the Board be made and mailed to each member of the Board.

Resolved, that the Faculty's recommendation that authority be granted to the Faculty of the Medical Department to draft a plan for a three years course in Medicine, said plan to be submitted to the General Faculty and then to the Board of Visitors for its approval in time for incorporation into the forthcoming general and special catalogues, be adopted.

Resolved, that a holiday of one week at X-mas 1895 be granted the students of the University of Virginia.

Resolved, that the Secretary be authorized to have type written, the copies of the Faculty's report for the use of the members of the Board, and also of any resolution adopted by this meeting, and of which copies are required to be made, other than the resolutions ordered to be printed, and that the Proctor be authorized to pay the cost of the same.

On motion the Board adjourned sine die.

Teste,

The Faculty have to report to you in official form the grievous disaster which has befallen our University. The fire of the 27th October 1895, breaking out in the rear of the top story of the Annex, tho' soon discovered, speedily passed beyond control and in spite of the devoted efforts of our officers, faculty, students, friends and neighbors continued its work of ruin until the Annex, the Rotunda, a large part of their contents, and the wings connecting the Rotunda with the Lawns were either burned or wrecked.

An investigation of the causes of the disaster will be made at as early a date as possible. It is doubtful whether its origin will ever be securely established. Yet such enquiries as have been made serve to convince us that the disaster can be ascribed to no lack of care on the part of our officials or servitors, but is one of those dark lessons in the discipline of life, beneath which we must bow in humility and faith. It is a painful but perhaps a salutary lesson to us in showing that we must no longer depend solely upon external aid for subduing such conflagrations, and we shall recommend below that one of your first acts be to develop some systematic and thorough internal system of fire protection for our buildings,

The Faculty will proceed at once to study the proper details of such a system and desires to report upon the same to your Board at an early day.

It is fitting that we put on record in this paper our lively sense of gratitude for the gallantry and devotion of our students, the prompt and unstinted aid of our neighbours, including many noble women, the generous readiness of the Southern and the C. & O. R. R. Companies to bring a trained fire service to our rescue, and the alacrity with which the Fire Departments of Charlottesville, Staunton, Lynchburg and Richmond flew to help us. The services of the railway and fire companies were rendered generously and gratuitously, and we recommend that Your Board consider the propriety of making some pecuniary acknowledgment of the same.

Amid all our dismay in presence of this vast disaster we have the consolation of remembering that its risks and dangers were endured with the loss of no life, and we trust with no serious damage to the health of any of our brave assistants. The imagination of fatalities that might have befallen some of them makes us almost forget our material loss.

We are happy also to report to your Board that the work of the University of Virginia has suffered no interruption and will continue without break. It is prosecuted amid some difficulties and some discouragements, but all are cheerfully borne. We feel assured that your Board, facing the emergency with a like spirit, will unite with us in the most active and earnest efforts not simply to restore the beauty and conveniences of our establishment, but to increase its usefulness by providing facilities more ample and splendid than we have here- tofore enjoyed for our Scholastic work.

Animated by this conviction we have given careful and minute attention to the details of plans for rebuilding. We have, with the authorization of the Rector, called in as consulting Architect Mr McDonald of Louisville, Ky, and have availed ourselves of his professional experience and knowledge in clearing our views upon the state of the ruined buildings and estimating the approximate cost of improvement, without however involving your Board in any expressed or implied agreement to employ him further. We have also been taught by the disaster, which has befallen us, the danger and impolicy of the system of construction followed in our old public building, and recommend to you a strict adherance to the general plan of fireproof construction and isolated buildings. With these preliminary points established we proceed to recommend to your Board the following specific action.

I. That the ruins of the Annex be at once demolished, the useful building material be removed to such new site as your Board may select for the proposed Academical building (see IV below), and the depression occupied by the old building filled with earth. The Faculty is convinced that the original construction of the Annex was an architectural blunder and the restoration upon the old site would invite a repetition of our present disaster. It was a building devoid of true architectural merit and very costly for the accommodation secured.

The direct loss consequent upon its removal will not exceed $250000. The indirect loss occasioned by its old location has exceeded $100,000.00. We trust that no thought of its restoration will be entertained.

II. That the two wings to the Rotunda be at once reconstructed in their former proportions, but of fire-proof materials, and assigned to the use of the library and the School of Natural Philosophy respectively. The remnants of our library, stored temporarily in cellars and garrets, are now collecting on the floor of the Natural History Museum; but for any real use by professors or students, the books must be shelved in some accessible apartment. The condition of our Philosophical Apparatus in the same way renders the work of instruction exceedingly difficult and extravigantly laborious. Finally the enforced use of the Museum as a place of deposit for these objects has made it necessary to close this building entirely to visitors.

III. That the Visitors engage a competent architect, and instruct him to prepare plans for the restoration of the Rotunda, but in fire-proof materials. The walls of this building need little repair, but should be at once protected against damage from weather. The Faculty feels that the original propositions of the Central building should be religiously observed, but recommend that a new portico should be erected on the North side corresponding to that on the South, with proper flights of steps descending to the esplanade to be formed over the site of the old Annex, and thence at the Ramparts to the level of the ground. The Faculty also respectfully calls the attention of the Visitors to the fact that the old Library room had become so crowded with books that the orderly arrangement of them was impossible, and the consequent utility of the collection was seriously impaired. They therefore recommend that the Architect be instructed to so design the interior of the building that the whole of the capacity from the dome down to the portico floor may hereafter be really and simply utilizable for library purposes, and they request that he be also instructed to consult with their Library Committee as to the details of this design. They also advise that the Architect be instructed to give especial attention to the problems of heating, lighting, and ventilation, which in the old building were inadequately solved. Believing that the funds requisite for this reconstruction are already on hand or immediately in sight, they recommend that the work of design be pushed rapidly to its completion and the work of construction begun at the earliest practicable moment.

IV. That the Architect of the Board be instructed to propose plans for a new Academical Building to contain as its central member a public hall, designed in the horse-shoe or theatrical form, and two wings each with six lecture rooms of sizes suitable for large and small classes. The Faculty recommends that the Visitors select at this session the site for said building in order that complete designs may be prepared and accurate estimates be made of the cost of construction, and inasmuch as it is in the last degree important that such building should be completed before September 1896, that the work of the next session may be effectually prosecuted, they advise that as soon as funds for the completion are obtained (estimated at about $90,000.) the contracts for construction be immediately let.

V. That the Architect be directed to prepare, under the advice of the Professor of Natural Philosophy, plans for a Physical Laboratory to be erected on such a site as the Board may at this session select. The Faculty have expressed in former reports their conviction that more ample provision should be made for the important School of Natural Philosophy. The desirability of a specially constructed and isolated building for delicate physical experimentation is obvious. Rooms for elementary and advanced instruction in Physics and especially for Electrical and Magnetic measurements should be free from sensible tremors and the last should be remote from attracting metalic masses. Preliminary estimates show that all these advantages are obtainable at a cost not exceeding $30,000. which sum our assiduous efforts will probably be able to raise.

VI. That the Architect be directed to prepare under advice of the Professors of Applied Mathematics and Engineering, plans for an Engineering building to be erected on such a site as the Board may select. An establishment involving necessarily the existence of coal sheds, boiler house, engine room, and so on, ought on grounds of safety to be isolated from all others. Preliminary estimates show that a building adequate for the present needs of the University and providing for considerable growth, will cost less than $30,000. The sum of $25,000. has already been promised toward its equipment with laboratory appliances.

VII. That the Architect be directed to prepare, under the advice of the Professors of Law, plans for a Law building to be erected on such a site as the Board may select. The growth of the Law School justifies this recommendation and the Faculty believes that its future prosperity will be thus powerfully advanced. The quarters of the Law professors have long been a reproach to us. The estimated cost of this building is not over $20,000. It would be possible, though by no means easy or safe, for the work of the University to go on without the three last buildings. But the Rotunda and the general Academical Building are really necessary for our success, and we feel that they must be secured. The buildings for Physics, Engineering and Law are arranged in the order of relative importance and the Board is advised to observe this order in their erection, if but one can be erected at a time.

VIII. The Faculty is deeply impressed with the propriety of following in these new buildings classical types of design and of locating them so as to create a harmonious combination with the original Jeffersonian group. As we examine the additions made to this system by Jefferson's successors, we are forced to confess with a certain shame that not one of them has added in the least degree to the harmony and beauty and magnificence of the original composition. We recommend, therefore, that the Visitors select as their professional adviser a man not of local repute only but of broad and national consideration, that he be instructed to consider in his designs not merely the convenience and elegance of the single structure, but its effect as a member of our general architectural system, and that he submit to your Board a comprehensive scheme which shall embody his advice on the location not only of the buildings recommended in this report but also of such additional dormitories, hospital buildings, official quarters and so on as the Visitors may contemplate. The study of our grounds as a problem of landscape gardening should at the same time receive some attention.

IX. In view of the fact that the next building season may require as to complete a large amount of work within a brief time, we recommend that the Superintendent be instructed to proceed at once with preparations for the manufacture of such a number of bricks of thoroughly good quality as the Architect may advise in addition to the supply saved from the Annex. By selecting the brickfield promptly, digging out the earth, raking it over and screening it if necessary, and letting it weather through the cold season, we shall obtain a better brick than can be purchased in the local market and at a far lower price.

X. Finally we desire to recommend as above indicated the provision of a special and effective fire-service for the University, and to advise that the Superintendent be authorized to study the details of such systems, in conjunction with a Committee of the Faculty, to advise with your Architect thereon, and to report his conclusion to your Board.

While we have proceeded in making the above recommendations upon a broad and generous hypothesis as to the present and future needs of our University, we believe that we have done no more than wisdom dictates. Yet we are not oblivious of the difficulties of the financial problem arising out of the poverty of our beloved state and the limited fortunes of our Alumni. We believe, nevertheless, that our present devastated condition will be in itself a powerful appeal to the sympathies of every friend of learning, that the example of a judicious liberality and undaunted spirit, if set here, will be contagious; and that a bold and frank appeal to the Legislature will meet with a response alike generous and kind. The new buildings and restorations necessary for the needs of our present and our immediate future will cost about $250,000., or $200,000 more than our present resources. We would respectfully recommend that the sum of $200,000. be at least asked from the State for buildings, leaving the generosity of private gifts to perfect our equipment. But whatever be the success of this appeal, we pledge to the Visitors our unvarying and earnest efforts to rehabilitate the University and ask from them their unwavering support in our plans and labors for its welfare.

The Faculty have to report to you in official form the grievous disaster which has befallen our University. The fire of the 27th October 1895, breaking out in the rear of the top story of the Annex, tho' soon discovered, speedily passed beyond control and in spite of the devoted efforts of our officers, faculty, students, friends and neighbors continued its work of ruin until the Annex, the Rotunda, a large part of their contents, and the wings connecting the Rotunda with the Lawns were either burned or wrecked.

An investigation of the causes of the disaster will be made at as early a date as possible. It is doubtful whether its origin will ever be securely established. Yet such enquiries as have been made serve to convince us that the disaster can be ascribed to no lack of care on the part of our officials or servitors, but is one of those dark lessons in the discipline of life, beneath which we must bow in humility and faith. It is a painful but perhaps a salutary lesson to us in showing that we must no longer depend solely upon external aid for subduing such conflagrations, and we shall recommend below that one of your first acts be to develop some systematic and thorough internal system of fire protection for our buildings,

The Faculty will proceed at once to study the proper details of such a system and desires to report upon the same to your Board at an early day.

It is fitting that we put on record in this paper our lively sense of gratitude for the gallantry and devotion of our students, the prompt and unstinted aid of our neighbours, including many noble women, the generous readiness of the Southern and the C. & O. R. R. Companies to bring a trained fire service to our rescue, and the alacrity with which the Fire Departments of Charlottesville, Staunton, Lynchburg and Richmond flew to help us. The services of the railway and fire companies were rendered generously and gratuitously, and we recommend that Your Board consider the propriety of making some pecuniary acknowledgment of the same.

Amid all our dismay in presence of this vast disaster we have the consolation of remembering that its risks and dangers were endured with the loss of no life, and we trust with no serious damage to the health of any of our brave assistants. The imagination of fatalities that might have befallen some of them makes us almost forget our material loss.

We are happy also to report to your Board that the work of the University of Virginia has suffered no interruption and will continue without break. It is prosecuted amid some difficulties and some discouragements, but all are cheerfully borne. We feel assured that your Board, facing the emergency with a like spirit, will unite with us in the most active and earnest efforts not simply to restore the beauty and conveniences of our establishment, but to increase its usefulness by providing facilities more ample and splendid than we have here- tofore enjoyed for our Scholastic work.

Animated by this conviction we have given careful and minute attention to the details of plans for rebuilding. We have, with the authorization of the Rector, called in as consulting Architect Mr McDonald of Louisville, Ky, and have availed ourselves of his professional experience and knowledge in clearing our views upon the state of the ruined buildings and estimating the approximate cost of improvement, without however involving your Board in any expressed or implied agreement to employ him further. We have also been taught by the disaster, which has befallen us, the danger and impolicy of the system of construction followed in our old public building, and recommend to you a strict adherance to the general plan of fireproof construction and isolated buildings. With these preliminary points established we proceed to recommend to your Board the following specific action.

I. That the ruins of the Annex be at once demolished, the useful building material be removed to such new site as your Board may select for the proposed Academical building (see IV below), and the depression occupied by the old building filled with earth. The Faculty is convinced that the original construction of the Annex was an architectural blunder and the restoration upon the old site would invite a repetition of our present disaster. It was a building devoid of true architectural merit and very costly for the accommodation secured.

The direct loss consequent upon its removal will not exceed $250000. The indirect loss occasioned by its old location has exceeded $100,000.00. We trust that no thought of its restoration will be entertained.

II. That the two wings to the Rotunda be at once reconstructed in their former proportions, but of fire-proof materials, and assigned to the use of the library and the School of Natural Philosophy respectively. The remnants of our library, stored temporarily in cellars and garrets, are now collecting on the floor of the Natural History Museum; but for any real use by professors or students, the books must be shelved in some accessible apartment. The condition of our Philosophical Apparatus in the same way renders the work of instruction exceedingly difficult and extravigantly laborious. Finally the enforced use of the Museum as a place of deposit for these objects has made it necessary to close this building entirely to visitors.

III. That the Visitors engage a competent architect, and instruct him to prepare plans for the restoration of the Rotunda, but in fire-proof materials. The walls of this building need little repair, but should be at once protected against damage from weather. The Faculty feels that the original propositions of the Central building should be religiously observed, but recommend that a new portico should be erected on the North side corresponding to that on the South, with proper flights of steps descending to the esplanade to be formed over the site of the old Annex, and thence at the Ramparts to the level of the ground. The Faculty also respectfully calls the attention of the Visitors to the fact that the old Library room had become so crowded with books that the orderly arrangement of them was impossible, and the consequent utility of the collection was seriously impaired. They therefore recommend that the Architect be instructed to so design the interior of the building that the whole of the capacity from the dome down to the portico floor may hereafter be really and simply utilizable for library purposes, and they request that he be also instructed to consult with their Library Committee as to the details of this design. They also advise that the Architect be instructed to give especial attention to the problems of heating, lighting, and ventilation, which in the old building were inadequately solved. Believing that the funds requisite for this reconstruction are already on hand or immediately in sight, they recommend that the work of design be pushed rapidly to its completion and the work of construction begun at the earliest practicable moment.

IV. That the Architect of the Board be instructed to propose plans for a new Academical Building to contain as its central member a public hall, designed in the horse-shoe or theatrical form, and two wings each with six lecture rooms of sizes suitable for large and small classes. The Faculty recommends that the Visitors select at this session the site for said building in order that complete designs may be prepared and accurate estimates be made of the cost of construction, and inasmuch as it is in the last degree important that such building should be completed before September 1896, that the work of the next session may be effectually prosecuted, they advise that as soon as funds for the completion are obtained (estimated at about $90,000.) the contracts for construction be immediately let.

V. That the Architect be directed to prepare, under the advice of the Professor of Natural Philosophy, plans for a Physical Laboratory to be erected on such a site as the Board may at this session select. The Faculty have expressed in former reports their conviction that more ample provision should be made for the important School of Natural Philosophy. The desirability of a specially constructed and isolated building for delicate physical experimentation is obvious. Rooms for elementary and advanced instruction in Physics and especially for Electrical and Magnetic measurements should be free from sensible tremors and the last should be remote from attracting metalic masses. Preliminary estimates show that all these advantages are obtainable at a cost not exceeding $30,000. which sum our assiduous efforts will probably be able to raise.

VI. That the Architect be directed to prepare under advice of the Professors of Applied Mathematics and Engineering, plans for an Engineering building to be erected on such a site as the Board may select. An establishment involving necessarily the existence of coal sheds, boiler house, engine room, and so on, ought on grounds of safety to be isolated from all others. Preliminary estimates show that a building adequate for the present needs of the University and providing for considerable growth, will cost less than $30,000. The sum of $25,000. has already been promised toward its equipment with laboratory appliances.

VII. That the Architect be directed to prepare, under the advice of the Professors of Law, plans for a Law building to be erected on such a site as the Board may select. The growth of the Law School justifies this recommendation and the Faculty believes that its future prosperity will be thus powerfully advanced. The quarters of the Law professors have long been a reproach to us. The estimated cost of this building is not over $20,000. It would be possible, though by no means easy or safe, for the work of the University to go on without the three last buildings. But the Rotunda and the general Academical Building are really necessary for our success, and we feel that they must be secured. The buildings for Physics, Engineering and Law are arranged in the order of relative importance and the Board is advised to observe this order in their erection, if but one can be erected at a time.

VIII. The Faculty is deeply impressed with the propriety of following in these new buildings classical types of design and of locating them so as to create a harmonious combination with the original Jeffersonian group. As we examine the additions made to this system by Jefferson's successors, we are forced to confess with a certain shame that not one of them has added in the least degree to the harmony and beauty and magnificence of the original composition. We recommend, therefore, that the Visitors select as their professional adviser a man not of local repute only but of broad and national consideration, that he be instructed to consider in his designs not merely the convenience and elegance of the single structure, but its effect as a member of our general architectural system, and that he submit to your Board a comprehensive scheme which shall embody his advice on the location not only of the buildings recommended in this report but also of such additional dormitories, hospital buildings, official quarters and so on as the Visitors may contemplate. The study of our grounds as a problem of landscape gardening should at the same time receive some attention.

IX. In view of the fact that the next building season may require as to complete a large amount of work within a brief time, we recommend that the Superintendent be instructed to proceed at once with preparations for the manufacture of such a number of bricks of thoroughly good quality as the Architect may advise in addition to the supply saved from the Annex. By selecting the brickfield promptly, digging out the earth, raking it over and screening it if necessary, and letting it weather through the cold season, we shall obtain a better brick than can be purchased in the local market and at a far lower price.

X. Finally we desire to recommend as above indicated the provision of a special and effective fire-service for the University, and to advise that the Superintendent be authorized to study the details of such systems, in conjunction with a Committee of the Faculty, to advise with your Architect thereon, and to report his conclusion to your Board.

While we have proceeded in making the above recommendations upon a broad and generous hypothesis as to the present and future needs of our University, we believe that we have done no more than wisdom dictates. Yet we are not oblivious of the difficulties of the financial problem arising out of the poverty of our beloved state and the limited fortunes of our Alumni. We believe, nevertheless, that our present devastated condition will be in itself a powerful appeal to the sympathies of every friend of learning, that the example of a judicious liberality and undaunted spirit, if set here, will be contagious; and that a bold and frank appeal to the Legislature will meet with a response alike generous and kind. The new buildings and restorations necessary for the needs of our present and our immediate future will cost about $250,000., or $200,000 more than our present resources. We would respectfully recommend that the sum of $200,000. be at least asked from the State for buildings, leaving the generosity of private gifts to perfect our equipment. But whatever be the success of this appeal, we pledge to the Visitors our unvarying and earnest efforts to rehabilitate the University and ask from them their unwavering support in our plans and labors for its welfare.