Board of Visitors minutes (1895) July 2, 1895
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

July 2, 1895

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Salaries of Instructors.Salaries of Officers.Scholarships and Fellowships.Wages of Employees.Working ExpensesGeneral ExpensesSummary of Income and Expenses.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

19 Professors at $3,000.00

$ 57,000.00

2 Professors at $2,000.00

4,000.00

1 associate Prof. at $2,300

2,300.00

1 associate Prof. at 2,000.00

2,000.00

2 associate Prof. at 1,500.00

3,000.00

Assistants in Law

1,500.00

Chemistry

1,000.00

Elec. and Physics.

1,000.00

Ancient Languages

800.00

Mathematics

800.00

Biology

500.00

Mech. and Civil Eng.

1,000.00

Dem. Anatomy

1,000.00

Asst. Dem. Anatomy

150.00

Dem. Pathology

800.00

Director - Gymnasium

1,250.00

Total

78 100.00

Chairman

1,000.00

Proctor

2,000.00

Supt. Grounds and Buildings.

700.00

Secretary Board of Visitors,

300.00

Commissioner of Accounts

150.00

Librarian

1,000.00

Total

5 150.00

Miller Scholarships

750.00

Brown Scholarship

120.00

Mason Fellowship

210.00

Total

1 080.00

Janitor and Plumber

$ 720.00

Day and Night Watchman

960.00

Janitor of Rotunda

300.00

Janitor Museum

180.00

Janitor Anatomical Hall

240.00

Janitor Gymnasium

225.00

Janitor Chem. Laboratory

135.00

Janitor Med. Hall

135.00

Janitor Annex

135.00

Janitor Dispensory

100.00

Chairman's Messenger

120.00

Laborers

1,000.00

Total

4 250.00

Alumni Bulletin

$ 500.00

Observatory

1,610.00

Agriculture and Biology

750.00

Chemical Department

350.00

Physical Department

300.00

Engineering Department

175.00

Anatomical Material

200.00

Mineralogy and Geology

50.00

Dispensary

400.00

Library

1,000.00

Students' Reading Room

100.00

Diplomas

700.00

Printing Blanks

150.00

Catalogues

$ 900.00

Advertising

1,200.00

Gymnasium

650.00

Fuel

500.00

Lights

750.00

Fuel Gas

275.00

Path. Laboratory

250.00

Obstetrics

500.00

Oper. Surgery

100.00

Total

11,410.00

Sinking Fund

2,450.00

Interest

6,220.00

Repairs

5,000.00

Commutations of Rent

2,400.00

Contingent Fund

1,500.00

Reservoir Tax

150.00

Total

17,720.00

(1)

To secure a Catalogue for the Library for the session 1895-6

$ 500.00

(2)

For painting the woodwork of the buildings

2,000.00

(3)

In addition to the appropriation of $3,00.00 for electric wiring the sum of . . .

600.00

Memo. These last three appropriations are to be paid out of the fund for repairs and improvements, but it is to be reimbursed from the revenues or income for 1895-6, if such revenues are sufficient for that purpose, but if they should prove insufficient, then they are to be paid out of the Fayerweather fund, in so far only as the income of 1895-6 may be insufficient to pay them.

(4)

For current expenses of Prof. Kent's school.

50.00

(1)

For clerical work to complete catalogue from 1884-1894.

60.00

(2)

For expenses of committee to secure plans for a hospital

200.00

(3)

Repairing addition to Chem. Laboratory

150.00

(4)

.For paving East & West Ranges and approaches to both from the Lawn and for changing the East Range Road.

5,000.00

(5)

.For addition to Kitchen on Carr's Hill

500.00

Estimated income, including balance from last year.

118,425.95

Salaries of corps of Instructors.

78 100.00

Salaries of Officers

5 150.00

Scholarships and Fellowships

1 080.00

Wages of employees

4 250.00

Working expenses.

11,410.00

General expenses.

17,720.00

Special appropriations

3,560.00

Apparent Deficit

$2 844.05

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held in purance of adjournment, on this 2nd of July 1895, (adjourned from June 11th 1895.)

Present. The Rector and seven of the Visitors, viz, Messrs McCabe, Watts, R. W. Martin, Patteson, McCormick, T. S. Martin and A. C. Gordon.

The Committee on Grounds and Buildings submitted its report which is in the following words and figures, to wit=

To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

The Committee on Grounds and Buildings respectfully report as follows:

1\. That the recommendation of the Faculty that they be authorized to make and enforce such regulations as will make it possible for the Chairman and Proctor to carry out systematically the collection of the accounts of students for board, be approved.

2\. That in view of the present financial condition of the University, it is in the opinion of the Committee, inexpedient to undertake the erection of new dormitories; and the Committee suggests that further consideration of this matter be deferred until the final adjudication by the courts of the Fayerweather case.

3\. That the Committee recommend the appropriation of Six thousand dollars out of the Fayerweather fund to cover the expense of changing the location of the present roadway along East Range, and for paving East and West ranges, and the approaches therefrom to the Lawn.

4\. That the Committee recommend the appropriation of $500.00 out of the Fayerweather fund for the enlargement of the Mess Kitchen on Carr's Hill.

5\. That the Committee recommend that a new light be placed at the alley running from Col Peter's residence to West Range.

6\. That Mrs Gunther's application to sublet "Hotel F" has been withdrawn; and that she has given notice that she does not want said Hotel after the expiration of the present year.

7\. That the Committee recommends the appropriation of $150.00 out of the Fayerweather fund for making the desired changes in the room adjoining the Chemical Laboratory.

which report was read and considered and on motion the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved that the Report of the Committee on Grounds and Buildings this day submitted, be approved and adopted and spread upon the minutes of this days proceedings. The appropriations recommended by said report are hereby made, to be used and expended under the direction of the Supt of Grounds and Buildings.

Resolved, that the Committee to whom was referred the resolution to furnish plans, specifications etc. for the establishment of a hospital, be granted further time, and that $200.00 be appropriated to pay the necessary expenses incident to the work of the committee.

The Committee on the Conduct of Schools etc submitted its report which is in the following words and figures, to wit:

The Committee on "Conduct of Schools & Course of Instruction" in the University of Virginia, to which was referred so much of the Faculty report as relates to modifications in the requirements for the B. A. degree, & the substitution of a general elective degree of "Bachelor of Science" in place of the present degrees of "Civil Engineer", "Mining Engineer" & "Mechanical Engineer" in the Engineering Depart- ment, begs leave to report as follows:

1st as to a modification of the requirements for for the B. A. degree.

The wisdom of the Visitors in remodelling the scheme of the old Academic degrees has been amply vindicated by results. At the close of the past session (1894-95) were graduated twenty B. A.s, a thing that ten years ago would have been deemed impossible, so unwilling were students, under any of the former schemes, to offer for a degree, which was virtually a public advertisement of their defeat in obtaining the higher (M. A.) degree.

The Visitors, by radically changing the whole degree system, have offered students a broad, strong, & reputable degree, & the results prove how quickly they have availed themselves of the opportunity to compete for the coveted reward of sound academic work.

That from time to time modifications would have to be made in respect to details,-modifications that would inevitably suggest themselves in the practical working out of the scheme-the Visitors saw at the outset & so expressed themselves. But it may be said, without fear of successful contradiction, that the scheme in its essential aim & scope, has proved a decided success.

To the Faculty, to whom the scheme, as it now stands, was referred for suggestions recommend the following modifications: of the existing requirements:

"The degree of Bachelor of Arts will be conferred upon a student, who has been graduated in nine B. A. Courses, so selected from the following list that at least one is taken from each of the seven groups=

A. Latin & Greek.

B. German, French, English Language.

C. Eng. Lit., History, Pol. Economy.

D. Logic & Psychology, Ethics & Hist. of Philosophy.

E. Mathematics, Mechanics, Astronomy.

F. Physics, Chemistry.

G. Biology, Geology."

To the minds of your Committee—;& we have given the matter our best thought—;this scheme has its strong & weak points. Under the existing requirements, there are but six groups of study, & Chemistry, Physics, Geology & Biology are embraced under one group (F), that of "Natural Science".

But these varied subjects, while of equal importance, are unlike in scientific method & educational value & the grouping is consequently open to the criticism that it is irrational. By simply dividing the present group (F.) into two groups, (F.) Physics & Chemistry & (G) Biology & Geology, all criticism is silenced.

The recommendation of the Faculty that nine B. A. Courses for these seven groups be required for the B. A. degree instead of eight courses for the existing six groups, also commends itself to your Committee. The weak points in the scheme seem to your Committee to be as follows=

1\. Spanish & Italian are entirely omitted from the scheme, & it is surely the business of a great University not only to provide in those languages, but to assign them some place in an elective scheme of degrees.

2\. Under the scheme submitted by the Faculty, a student electing the "English Language" from group B, might graduate B. A. & proceed M. A. without the slightest knowledge of or instruc- tion in any modern foreign language.

3\. The basis of the whole scheme is that it offers wide election, & yet, under group D, the subjects taught in the "School of Moral Philosophy" alone are absolutely required. Furthermore, if a student were to elect both "Logic & Psychology", & "Ethics & the History of Philosophy" in group D. & wished to proceed M. A., electing "Moral Philosophy" as one of his M. A. courses, no further instruction is provided in that "School".

4\. "Political Economy" is grouped illogically with "English Literature". It is really a philosophical subject & is treated by many authors as a branch of applied Ethics.

In view of these objections, your Committee submit for your favorable consideration the following modified scheme:

A. Latin, Greek.

B. (1) French, (2) German, (3) Spanish and Italian.

C. English Language, English Literature, History.

D. Logic & Psychology, Ethics & Hist. of Philosophy, Political Economy.

E. Mathematics, Mechanics, Astronomy.

F. Physics, Chemistry.

G. Biology, Geology.

Each student to elect nine subjects, at least one from each group. This seems to your Committee to present a scheme which is (1) evenly balanced, (2) rationally grouped, & (3) sufficiently broadened.

The recommendation of the Faculty that the present degrees of "Civil Engineer", "Mining Engineer", & "Mechanical Engineer" be abolished & the general elective degree of "Bachelor of Science in the Engineering Dept" be substituted for it, is endorsed by Your Committee. A like change has been made at Harvard & the Mass. Inst. of Technology & the other great Engineering schools are falling into line.

The requirements for this general elective degree, as printed on p. 8 of the last "Faculty report" (June 1st 189) are also recommended to be ordered by the Board.

The report was read and considered and on motion the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, that the report of the Committee on "Conduct of Schools & Course of Instruction", to which it was referred so much of the "Faculty's Report" as relates to modification in the requirements for the B. A. degree & the substitution of a general elective degree of "Bachelor of Science" in the place of the present degree of "Civil Engineer", "Mining Engineer" & "Mechanical Engineer, in the Engineering Department be received & the recommendations made by said Committee be adopted & said report spread upon the minutes of this day's proceedings.

Resolved, that $60.00 be appropriated for the clerical work necessary to complete the catalogue from 1884-1894.

Resolved that the Visitors regret that the want of means prevent them from granting the request of Mr Baker, secretary of the Faculty for an increase in his salary.

Resolved that scarcity of means and a doubt of their power to do so compel the Visitors to decline to purchase Dr Schele's book of photographs; and that they do not deem it expedient to employ Dr Schele to revise the general catalogue from 1825 to 1875, and prepare a new addition for the printer. This was adopted by a unanimous vote.

Mr McCabe offered the following resolution.

Resolved that an appropriation of $50.00 per annum for the period of 3 years be & is hereby granted towards the support of the "American School of Archeology" proposed to be established at Rome.

Mr McCormick offered the following as a substitute:

Resolved, that the Visitors feel obliged because of the want of means to decline to make an appropriation to have the University represented at the American School at Rome for study of Archeology, Art, Philology, Literature & History, but Profr Peters' action in allowing the School of Latin to be represented free of cost is approved.

A vote was had upon the substitute and it was adopted by a vote of 6 for to 2 against it.

Resolved that the request of Mr Lambeth, Director of the Gymnasium, for an increase of his salary to $1500.00 be refused, but in consideration of his fitness for the place his salary is increased to $1250.00.

Resolved, that the communication of Mr Leander McCormick of Chicago in reference to the Observatory be referred to a special Committee to be composed of the Rector, Hon. Marshall McCormick and Mr McCabe, who shall correspond with Mr McCormick and make report to the Board.

On motion the subject of reorganizing the School of Modern Languages came up for consideration, and Profr James M. Garnett having requested that he be allowed to appear before the Board and be heard upon the question, upon invitation he came and a hearing was accorded him.

After discussion and consideration, Mr McCormick offered the following preamble and resolutions:

It is not deemed expedient at this time to consolidate the Chair of English with that of Modern Languages, but in view of the small attendance on the school, the Visitors feel constrained to reduce the salary of the Professor thereof from $3300.00 to $2300.00.

In the judgment of the Visitors the School of Modern Languages can be most efficiently conducted by a division of it into two departments and the election of two professors, one to have charge of the Department of the Romance Languages and literatures and the other of the department of the Germanic Lan- guages and literatures=

Therefore it is resolved,

1\. That the School of English remain as at present, but the salary of the Profr thereof is reduced to $2000.00 and the use of the house now used by him.

2\. That the School of Modern Languages be divided into two Departments as above indicated.

3\. That Professor Jas A. Harrison of Washington & Lee University be elected one of the Professors in the School of Modern Languages to have charge of the Romance Languages and Literatures at a salary of $3300.00 or $3000.00 and $300.00 commutation of rent, and that Profr W. H. Perkinbe elected the other Profr in the said School of Modern Languages to have charge of the Department of the Germanic Languages and literatures at a salary of $2300.00 no house or commutation being allowed to him therefor at present.

4\. So far as these resolutions conflict with the resolution of June 11th 1895 the latter is reconsidered and this resolution is adopted in lieu thereof.

Mr A. C. Gordon offered the following as a substitute for Mr McCormick's resolution.

Resolved that the resolution of June 11th with reference to the School of Modern Languages and English stand as the sense of this Board; that the Chair of English be abolished as an independent chair, that the School of Modern Languages be subdivided into the Teutonic and Romance Schools; that the subject of English be attached to the School of the Teutonic Languages and that the School of Modern Languages be under the general charge of the Professor of Modern Languages, and that the Schools of the Teutonic and Romance Languages be taught under the supervision of the Professor of Modern Languages, by Associate Professors of the Teutonic and Romance Languages respectively.

After a discussion it was moved and ordered that a vote be taken on the substitute by a call of the roll, which was done and resulted in the defeat of the substitute by a tie vote, as follows:

For. The Rector & Messrs McCabe, Watts & A. C. Gordon, 4 Against. Messrs McCormick, Dr Martin, Patteson and T. S. Martin. 4

On motion a vote was then ordered on the original resolution by a call of the roll, which was had with the defeat of the same by a tie vote as follows:

For- Messrs McCormick, Patteson, T. S. Martin & Dr Martin-4 Against- The Rector, McCabe, Watts & A. C. Gordon - 4

Mr McCormick offered the following resolution.

Resolved, that it is inexpedient at this time to consolidate the School of English with that of Modern Languages, but in view of the small attendance on the School of English, the Visitors feel constrained to reduce the salary of the Professor of English from the sum of $3300 to the sum of $2300. So far as this resolution is in conflict with the resolution adopted on this subject on June 11th, the latter is reconsidered and this resolution is adopted now as a substitute for so much of the said resolution of June 11th as conflicts with this.

This resolution was seconded, and a vote was asked for and ordered by ayes and nays and resulted as follows. ayes, McCormick, Dr. Martin, T. S. Martin, Patteson, and A. C. Gordon. 5.

Noes. The Rector, Watts and McCabe 3.

The resolution was adopted by a vote of five to three.

The following resolution was adopted by a unanimous vote:

Resolved; That the School of Modern Languages be divided into the Schools of the Romance and Teutonic Languages and Literatures.

Mr. A. C. Gordon offered the following resolution.

Resolved: That James A. Harrison be elected Professor of the Romance Languages at a Salary of $3300, or $00, and a house, which on the call of the roll was adopted by a unanimous vote.

Mr. A. C. Gordon offered the following resolution.

Resolved. That W. H. Perkinson be elected Professor of the Teutonic Languages, at a salary of $2300, exclusive of a house, or commutation therefor.

Which meeting with a second, the resolution was adopted on call of the roll by a vote of seven in favor to one against it as follows.

Ayes. Watts, Dr. Martin, T. S. Martin, McCormick, Patteson, McCabe and A. C. Gordon. 7.

Noes: The Rector. 1.

The Rector desired to have it entered on the record that he voted no only on the ground that the salary is not $3300, that no professor should have less than a full salary.

The following resolution was unanimously adopted.

Resolved: That the Adjunct Professor of Historical Science be made an Associate Professor, and that his salary be increased to $2000. per annum.

The following resolution was unanimously adopted:

Resolved: That after the session of 1895-96, all instructors and teachers in the University shall be appointed by the Board of Visitors.

The following resolution was submitted and the vote thereon taken by call of the roll, and the same was defeated by a tie vote. Afterwards Mr. Patteson, who had voted in the negative, moved a reconsideration of the resolution, which was carried, and on a vote taken upon the resolution a second time, it was adopted by a vote of five to three, as follows.

Ayes: The Rector, McCabe, Patteson, Dr. Martin, and A. C. Gordon. 5.

Noes. Watts, McCormick and T. S. Martin. 3.

Resolved. That the conduct of the School of English is not satisfactory to the Board of Visitors; and that unless during the ensuing session the work of that School shall commend itself to the Board more favorably than heretofore, the Board will feel called upon to request the resignation of the incumbent.

The original vote upon the foregoing resolution, which resulted in a tie, was as follows:

Ayes: The Rector, Dr. Martin, McCabe and A. C. Gordon. 4.

Noes; Watts, McCormick, Patteson and T. S. Martin. 4.

The following resolution was unanimously adopted:

Resolved. That beginning with the Session of 1896-97, there shall be an adjunct Professor in the School of Pure Mathematics, to be elected by the Board at a salary to be hereafter determined.

The following resolution was unanimously adopted:

Resolved: That the Faculty be requested, if they can find it consistent with the discipline of the University, to allow the reorganization of the Eli Banana Society, subject to the inspection and approval by the Faculty, of the scheme of organization, by-laws, ritual and songs of said Society.

Resolved. That a Committee on University Discipline, to consist of five professors, two from the Academic, one from the Law and one from the Medical Schools, of which committee the chairman of the Faculty shall be ex-officio chairman, be appointed at each annual meeting of this Board, who shall have in charge all matters connected with University Discipline and to whom shall be referred all charges of improper conduct, violations of rules, etc., by any student, with the right of appeal from the decision of said committee to the Faculty, and from the Faculty to the Board.

Resolved: That Prof. Noah K. Davis and Wm. H. Echols, from the Academic school, Prof. James H. Gilmore, from the Law school, and Dr. Jno. W. Mallet, from the Medical school, be and they are hereby appointed Committee on "University Discipline," for the Session of 1895-96. The Chairman of the Faculty to be ex-officio chairman of said board.

(1) Resolved, that the Supt. of Grounds and Buildings shall attach to each warrant drawn by him on the Proctor an itemized statement showing for what the warrant is drawn and the Proctor will pay no warrant unless such itemized statement is attached to it.

(2) The Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings will furnish to the Proctor to be forwarded by him to the Visitors, an itemized statement showing how the appropriations for repairs and improvements for 1894-5 have been expended and each year beginning with 1895-6, the Superintendent will report in writing to the Visitors at their annual meeting his expenditures for repairs and improvements giving such expenditures by items and in detail.

Resolved, that the Proctor be authorized from time to time to sell to the Rector of the University from the supply of coal on hand for University purposes as much coal as he may need for his own use at the same price charged to students, the Rector to have the same hauled at his own cost.

Mrs. L. L. Gunther having notified the Visitors that she does not wish to retain the hotel occupied by her after the expiration of the present year, and asking the surrender of her bond, receipt of such notice is acknowledged and the Proctor is directed to return to Mrs. Gunther at the end of the present year her bond provided all the conditions of her contract, for which said bond is responsible, shall have been performed.

Resolved: That the letter of Jed Hotchkiss Esqr. relative to the annual meeting in 1897 of the American Association for the Advancement of Science be referred to the Faculty for such recommendation as they may make to the Executive Committee, who shall then act upon the proposition therein suggested.

Mrs. W. B. Harris having applied for the hotel now rented by Mrs. Gunther and shortly to be vacated by her, the Proctor is directed to let said hotel to Mrs. Harris upon the same terms as those upon which it was rented by Mrs. Gunther but the term of renting shall expire July 1, 1896, and because of its expiration before the end of a full year there shall be a ratable deduction for unexpired part of the year.

Resolved, that the question of dispute of sewage between Charlottesville, owners of property adjacent to the University and the Visitors, be referred to the Executive Committee with full power to settle and adjust the matters in controversy as to them may seem best.

Resolved, that the Rector, Messrs. A. C. Gordon and McCabe be appointed a committee to prepare the annual report to the General Assembly.

Resolved, that this Board desires to put upon record its high appreciation of the distinguished services of the late B. Johnson Barbour a former Rector of the University whose long and illustrious life and extraordinary talent adorned the history of Virginia and we tender to his bereaved family our sincere sympathy with them in their affliction. It is ordered that a copy of this resolution be sent to his family.

The Finance Committee submitted its report which was read and considered, and on motion it was resolved that it be approved and adopted and the appropriations therein recommended are made.

Said report is in the following words and figures:

Report of the Finance Committee.

The Committee on Finance respectfully reports that the Proctor's Annual Report and the settlement made by the Commissioner of Accounts shows a balance in the Proctor's hands, for the fiscal year ending June 15, 1895, of $889.95.

By reference to the last annual Report of this Committee it will be seen that there was an apparent deficit in revenues over appropriations of $2,919.75, but this was based upon a very much lighter attendance of students than the number that were actually in attendance, and whilst there is from the Proctor's report an apparent deficit, yet an examination of his report shows that this deficit is not likely to materialize. The income of the University for the ensuing year, including an estimated income of $1110.00, from the Fayerweather Bequest, and the income from students' fees, estimated upon a basis of Five hundred and ten students, amounts to the sum of One hundred and Eighteen Thousand, Five hundred and thirty-six dollars, (118,536.00). Adding to the sum last named the balance of $889.95 in the hands of the Proctor from last year we have the sum of $119,425.95, as the available fund for the ensuing year. The sources of said sum will appear from the reports of the Proctor and the Faculty taken together.

Appropriations.

We recommend the following appropriations.

Special Appropriations.

The following special appropriations were made by the Visitors at the meeting held June 10th, 1895:

Appendix.

In addition to the Special Appropriations hereinbefore mentioned, the following were made by the Visitors at a meeting held July 2, 1895.

Memorandum. The last two sums are appropriated out of the Fayerweather fund and are not therefore brought into the general summary.

Of the foregoing special appropriations the sum of $3100. are directed to be paid out of the income for 1895-6, but if not sufficient the said sum is to be paid out of the Fayerweather fund. This will wipe out the apparent deficit. We have no reason to doubt that this apparent deficit will be met by an increase in the attendance of students over the number we have estimated. It will be recalled that this report must be based upon mere estimates and not upon actually accomplished fact. It is most probable that the special appropriations will be met by the regular income and the Fayerweather fund will not likely be called on. The Executive Committee is respectfully asked to make no appropriations other than these herein recommended unless unavoidable.

Mr McCormick expressed himself earnestly in favor of a reconsideration of the resolution last adopted affecting the School of English, and thereupon Dr Martin who voted in favor of the adoption of the resolution made a motion for its reconsideration in respect to the wishes of Mr McCormick, who arose and addressed the Board warmly in favor of a reconsideration.

The question was then called for and a vote ordered by ayes and noes, which was had and on a call of the roll resulted as follows

Ayes. Dr Martin, McCormick, Watts and T. S. Martin. 4

Noes. The Rector, McCabe, Patteson and A. C. Gordon. 4

A tie vote, the motion was defeated.

On motion the Board adjourned sine die.

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held in purance of adjournment, on this 2nd of July 1895, (adjourned from June 11th 1895.)

Present. The Rector and seven of the Visitors, viz, Messrs McCabe, Watts, R. W. Martin, Patteson, McCormick, T. S. Martin and A. C. Gordon.

The Committee on Grounds and Buildings submitted its report which is in the following words and figures, to wit=

To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

The Committee on Grounds and Buildings respectfully report as follows:

1\. That the recommendation of the Faculty that they be authorized to make and enforce such regulations as will make it possible for the Chairman and Proctor to carry out systematically the collection of the accounts of students for board, be approved.

2\. That in view of the present financial condition of the University, it is in the opinion of the Committee, inexpedient to undertake the erection of new dormitories; and the Committee suggests that further consideration of this matter be deferred until the final adjudication by the courts of the Fayerweather case.

3\. That the Committee recommend the appropriation of Six thousand dollars out of the Fayerweather fund to cover the expense of changing the location of the present roadway along East Range, and for paving East and West ranges, and the approaches therefrom to the Lawn.

4\. That the Committee recommend the appropriation of $500.00 out of the Fayerweather fund for the enlargement of the Mess Kitchen on Carr's Hill.

5\. That the Committee recommend that a new light be placed at the alley running from Col Peter's residence to West Range.

6\. That Mrs Gunther's application to sublet "Hotel F" has been withdrawn; and that she has given notice that she does not want said Hotel after the expiration of the present year.

7\. That the Committee recommends the appropriation of $150.00 out of the Fayerweather fund for making the desired changes in the room adjoining the Chemical Laboratory.

The Committee on "Conduct of Schools & Course of Instruction" in the University of Virginia, to which was referred so much of the Faculty report as relates to modifications in the requirements for the B. A. degree, & the substitution of a general elective degree of "Bachelor of Science" in place of the present degrees of "Civil Engineer", "Mining Engineer" & "Mechanical Engineer" in the Engineering Depart- ment, begs leave to report as follows:

1st as to a modification of the requirements for for the B. A. degree.

The wisdom of the Visitors in remodelling the scheme of the old Academic degrees has been amply vindicated by results. At the close of the past session (1894-95) were graduated twenty B. A.s, a thing that ten years ago would have been deemed impossible, so unwilling were students, under any of the former schemes, to offer for a degree, which was virtually a public advertisement of their defeat in obtaining the higher (M. A.) degree.

The Visitors, by radically changing the whole degree system, have offered students a broad, strong, & reputable degree, & the results prove how quickly they have availed themselves of the opportunity to compete for the coveted reward of sound academic work.

That from time to time modifications would have to be made in respect to details,-modifications that would inevitably suggest themselves in the practical working out of the scheme-the Visitors saw at the outset & so expressed themselves. But it may be said, without fear of successful contradiction, that the scheme in its essential aim & scope, has proved a decided success.

To the Faculty, to whom the scheme, as it now stands, was referred for suggestions recommend the following modifications: of the existing requirements:

"The degree of Bachelor of Arts will be conferred upon a student, who has been graduated in nine B. A. Courses, so selected from the following list that at least one is taken from each of the seven groups=

A. Latin & Greek.

B. German, French, English Language.

C. Eng. Lit., History, Pol. Economy.

D. Logic & Psychology, Ethics & Hist. of Philosophy.

E. Mathematics, Mechanics, Astronomy.

F. Physics, Chemistry.

G. Biology, Geology."

To the minds of your Committee—;& we have given the matter our best thought—;this scheme has its strong & weak points. Under the existing requirements, there are but six groups of study, & Chemistry, Physics, Geology & Biology are embraced under one group (F), that of "Natural Science".

But these varied subjects, while of equal importance, are unlike in scientific method & educational value & the grouping is consequently open to the criticism that it is irrational. By simply dividing the present group (F.) into two groups, (F.) Physics & Chemistry & (G) Biology & Geology, all criticism is silenced.

The recommendation of the Faculty that nine B. A. Courses for these seven groups be required for the B. A. degree instead of eight courses for the existing six groups, also commends itself to your Committee. The weak points in the scheme seem to your Committee to be as follows=

1\. Spanish & Italian are entirely omitted from the scheme, & it is surely the business of a great University not only to provide in those languages, but to assign them some place in an elective scheme of degrees.

2\. Under the scheme submitted by the Faculty, a student electing the "English Language" from group B, might graduate B. A. & proceed M. A. without the slightest knowledge of or instruc- tion in any modern foreign language.

3\. The basis of the whole scheme is that it offers wide election, & yet, under group D, the subjects taught in the "School of Moral Philosophy" alone are absolutely required. Furthermore, if a student were to elect both "Logic & Psychology", & "Ethics & the History of Philosophy" in group D. & wished to proceed M. A., electing "Moral Philosophy" as one of his M. A. courses, no further instruction is provided in that "School".

4\. "Political Economy" is grouped illogically with "English Literature". It is really a philosophical subject & is treated by many authors as a branch of applied Ethics.

In view of these objections, your Committee submit for your favorable consideration the following modified scheme:

A. Latin, Greek.

B. (1) French, (2) German, (3) Spanish and Italian.

C. English Language, English Literature, History.

D. Logic & Psychology, Ethics & Hist. of Philosophy, Political Economy.

E. Mathematics, Mechanics, Astronomy.

F. Physics, Chemistry.

G. Biology, Geology.

Each student to elect nine subjects, at least one from each group. This seems to your Committee to present a scheme which is (1) evenly balanced, (2) rationally grouped, & (3) sufficiently broadened.

The recommendation of the Faculty that the present degrees of "Civil Engineer", "Mining Engineer", & "Mechanical Engineer" be abolished & the general elective degree of "Bachelor of Science in the Engineering Dept" be substituted for it, is endorsed by Your Committee. A like change has been made at Harvard & the Mass. Inst. of Technology & the other great Engineering schools are falling into line.

The requirements for this general elective degree, as printed on p. 8 of the last "Faculty report" (June 1st 189) are also recommended to be ordered by the Board.

Salaries of Instructors.Salaries of Officers.Scholarships and Fellowships.Wages of Employees.Working ExpensesGeneral ExpensesSummary of Income and Expenses.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

19 Professors at $3,000.00

$ 57,000.00

2 Professors at $2,000.00

4,000.00

1 associate Prof. at $2,300

2,300.00

1 associate Prof. at 2,000.00

2,000.00

2 associate Prof. at 1,500.00

3,000.00

Assistants in Law

1,500.00

Chemistry

1,000.00

Elec. and Physics.

1,000.00

Ancient Languages

800.00

Mathematics

800.00

Biology

500.00

Mech. and Civil Eng.

1,000.00

Dem. Anatomy

1,000.00

Asst. Dem. Anatomy

150.00

Dem. Pathology

800.00

Director - Gymnasium

1,250.00

Total

78 100.00

Chairman

1,000.00

Proctor

2,000.00

Supt. Grounds and Buildings.

700.00

Secretary Board of Visitors,

300.00

Commissioner of Accounts

150.00

Librarian

1,000.00

Total

5 150.00

Miller Scholarships

750.00

Brown Scholarship

120.00

Mason Fellowship

210.00

Total

1 080.00

Janitor and Plumber

$ 720.00

Day and Night Watchman

960.00

Janitor of Rotunda

300.00

Janitor Museum

180.00

Janitor Anatomical Hall

240.00

Janitor Gymnasium

225.00

Janitor Chem. Laboratory

135.00

Janitor Med. Hall

135.00

Janitor Annex

135.00

Janitor Dispensory

100.00

Chairman's Messenger

120.00

Laborers

1,000.00

Total

4 250.00

Alumni Bulletin

$ 500.00

Observatory

1,610.00

Agriculture and Biology

750.00

Chemical Department

350.00

Physical Department

300.00

Engineering Department

175.00

Anatomical Material

200.00

Mineralogy and Geology

50.00

Dispensary

400.00

Library

1,000.00

Students' Reading Room

100.00

Diplomas

700.00

Printing Blanks

150.00

Catalogues

$ 900.00

Advertising

1,200.00

Gymnasium

650.00

Fuel

500.00

Lights

750.00

Fuel Gas

275.00

Path. Laboratory

250.00

Obstetrics

500.00

Oper. Surgery

100.00

Total

11,410.00

Sinking Fund

2,450.00

Interest

6,220.00

Repairs

5,000.00

Commutations of Rent

2,400.00

Contingent Fund

1,500.00

Reservoir Tax

150.00

Total

17,720.00

(1)

To secure a Catalogue for the Library for the session 1895-6

$ 500.00

(2)

For painting the woodwork of the buildings

2,000.00

(3)

In addition to the appropriation of $3,00.00 for electric wiring the sum of . . .

600.00

Memo. These last three appropriations are to be paid out of the fund for repairs and improvements, but it is to be reimbursed from the revenues or income for 1895-6, if such revenues are sufficient for that purpose, but if they should prove insufficient, then they are to be paid out of the Fayerweather fund, in so far only as the income of 1895-6 may be insufficient to pay them.

(4)

For current expenses of Prof. Kent's school.

50.00

(1)

For clerical work to complete catalogue from 1884-1894.

60.00

(2)

For expenses of committee to secure plans for a hospital

200.00

(3)

Repairing addition to Chem. Laboratory

150.00

(4)

.For paving East & West Ranges and approaches to both from the Lawn and for changing the East Range Road.

5,000.00

(5)

.For addition to Kitchen on Carr's Hill

500.00

Estimated income, including balance from last year.

118,425.95

Salaries of corps of Instructors.

78 100.00

Salaries of Officers

5 150.00

Scholarships and Fellowships

1 080.00

Wages of employees

4 250.00

Working expenses.

11,410.00

General expenses.

17,720.00

Special appropriations

3,560.00

Apparent Deficit

$2 844.05

The Committee on Finance respectfully reports that the Proctor's Annual Report and the settlement made by the Commissioner of Accounts shows a balance in the Proctor's hands, for the fiscal year ending June 15, 1895, of $889.95.

By reference to the last annual Report of this Committee it will be seen that there was an apparent deficit in revenues over appropriations of $2,919.75, but this was based upon a very much lighter attendance of students than the number that were actually in attendance, and whilst there is from the Proctor's report an apparent deficit, yet an examination of his report shows that this deficit is not likely to materialize. The income of the University for the ensuing year, including an estimated income of $1110.00, from the Fayerweather Bequest, and the income from students' fees, estimated upon a basis of Five hundred and ten students, amounts to the sum of One hundred and Eighteen Thousand, Five hundred and thirty-six dollars, (118,536.00). Adding to the sum last named the balance of $889.95 in the hands of the Proctor from last year we have the sum of $119,425.95, as the available fund for the ensuing year. The sources of said sum will appear from the reports of the Proctor and the Faculty taken together.

Appropriations.

We recommend the following appropriations.

Special Appropriations.

The following special appropriations were made by the Visitors at the meeting held June 10th, 1895:

Appendix.

In addition to the Special Appropriations hereinbefore mentioned, the following were made by the Visitors at a meeting held July 2, 1895.

Memorandum. The last two sums are appropriated out of the Fayerweather fund and are not therefore brought into the general summary.

Of the foregoing special appropriations the sum of $3100. are directed to be paid out of the income for 1895-6, but if not sufficient the said sum is to be paid out of the Fayerweather fund. This will wipe out the apparent deficit. We have no reason to doubt that this apparent deficit will be met by an increase in the attendance of students over the number we have estimated. It will be recalled that this report must be based upon mere estimates and not upon actually accomplished fact. It is most probable that the special appropriations will be met by the regular income and the Fayerweather fund will not likely be called on. The Executive Committee is respectfully asked to make no appropriations other than these herein recommended unless unavoidable.

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held in purance of adjournment, on this 2nd of July 1895, (adjourned from June 11th 1895.)

Present. The Rector and seven of the Visitors, viz, Messrs McCabe, Watts, R. W. Martin, Patteson, McCormick, T. S. Martin and A. C. Gordon.

The Committee on Grounds and Buildings submitted its report which is in the following words and figures, to wit=

To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

The Committee on Grounds and Buildings respectfully report as follows:

1\. That the recommendation of the Faculty that they be authorized to make and enforce such regulations as will make it possible for the Chairman and Proctor to carry out systematically the collection of the accounts of students for board, be approved.

2\. That in view of the present financial condition of the University, it is in the opinion of the Committee, inexpedient to undertake the erection of new dormitories; and the Committee suggests that further consideration of this matter be deferred until the final adjudication by the courts of the Fayerweather case.

3\. That the Committee recommend the appropriation of Six thousand dollars out of the Fayerweather fund to cover the expense of changing the location of the present roadway along East Range, and for paving East and West ranges, and the approaches therefrom to the Lawn.

4\. That the Committee recommend the appropriation of $500.00 out of the Fayerweather fund for the enlargement of the Mess Kitchen on Carr's Hill.

5\. That the Committee recommend that a new light be placed at the alley running from Col Peter's residence to West Range.

6\. That Mrs Gunther's application to sublet "Hotel F" has been withdrawn; and that she has given notice that she does not want said Hotel after the expiration of the present year.

7\. That the Committee recommends the appropriation of $150.00 out of the Fayerweather fund for making the desired changes in the room adjoining the Chemical Laboratory.

The Committee on "Conduct of Schools & Course of Instruction" in the University of Virginia, to which was referred so much of the Faculty report as relates to modifications in the requirements for the B. A. degree, & the substitution of a general elective degree of "Bachelor of Science" in place of the present degrees of "Civil Engineer", "Mining Engineer" & "Mechanical Engineer" in the Engineering Depart- ment, begs leave to report as follows:

1st as to a modification of the requirements for for the B. A. degree.

The wisdom of the Visitors in remodelling the scheme of the old Academic degrees has been amply vindicated by results. At the close of the past session (1894-95) were graduated twenty B. A.s, a thing that ten years ago would have been deemed impossible, so unwilling were students, under any of the former schemes, to offer for a degree, which was virtually a public advertisement of their defeat in obtaining the higher (M. A.) degree.

The Visitors, by radically changing the whole degree system, have offered students a broad, strong, & reputable degree, & the results prove how quickly they have availed themselves of the opportunity to compete for the coveted reward of sound academic work.

That from time to time modifications would have to be made in respect to details,-modifications that would inevitably suggest themselves in the practical working out of the scheme-the Visitors saw at the outset & so expressed themselves. But it may be said, without fear of successful contradiction, that the scheme in its essential aim & scope, has proved a decided success.

To the Faculty, to whom the scheme, as it now stands, was referred for suggestions recommend the following modifications: of the existing requirements:

"The degree of Bachelor of Arts will be conferred upon a student, who has been graduated in nine B. A. Courses, so selected from the following list that at least one is taken from each of the seven groups=

A. Latin & Greek.

B. German, French, English Language.

C. Eng. Lit., History, Pol. Economy.

D. Logic & Psychology, Ethics & Hist. of Philosophy.

E. Mathematics, Mechanics, Astronomy.

F. Physics, Chemistry.

G. Biology, Geology."

To the minds of your Committee—;& we have given the matter our best thought—;this scheme has its strong & weak points. Under the existing requirements, there are but six groups of study, & Chemistry, Physics, Geology & Biology are embraced under one group (F), that of "Natural Science".

But these varied subjects, while of equal importance, are unlike in scientific method & educational value & the grouping is consequently open to the criticism that it is irrational. By simply dividing the present group (F.) into two groups, (F.) Physics & Chemistry & (G) Biology & Geology, all criticism is silenced.

The recommendation of the Faculty that nine B. A. Courses for these seven groups be required for the B. A. degree instead of eight courses for the existing six groups, also commends itself to your Committee. The weak points in the scheme seem to your Committee to be as follows=

1\. Spanish & Italian are entirely omitted from the scheme, & it is surely the business of a great University not only to provide in those languages, but to assign them some place in an elective scheme of degrees.

2\. Under the scheme submitted by the Faculty, a student electing the "English Language" from group B, might graduate B. A. & proceed M. A. without the slightest knowledge of or instruc- tion in any modern foreign language.

3\. The basis of the whole scheme is that it offers wide election, & yet, under group D, the subjects taught in the "School of Moral Philosophy" alone are absolutely required. Furthermore, if a student were to elect both "Logic & Psychology", & "Ethics & the History of Philosophy" in group D. & wished to proceed M. A., electing "Moral Philosophy" as one of his M. A. courses, no further instruction is provided in that "School".

4\. "Political Economy" is grouped illogically with "English Literature". It is really a philosophical subject & is treated by many authors as a branch of applied Ethics.

In view of these objections, your Committee submit for your favorable consideration the following modified scheme:

A. Latin, Greek.

B. (1) French, (2) German, (3) Spanish and Italian.

C. English Language, English Literature, History.

D. Logic & Psychology, Ethics & Hist. of Philosophy, Political Economy.

E. Mathematics, Mechanics, Astronomy.

F. Physics, Chemistry.

G. Biology, Geology.

Each student to elect nine subjects, at least one from each group. This seems to your Committee to present a scheme which is (1) evenly balanced, (2) rationally grouped, & (3) sufficiently broadened.

The recommendation of the Faculty that the present degrees of "Civil Engineer", "Mining Engineer", & "Mechanical Engineer" be abolished & the general elective degree of "Bachelor of Science in the Engineering Dept" be substituted for it, is endorsed by Your Committee. A like change has been made at Harvard & the Mass. Inst. of Technology & the other great Engineering schools are falling into line.

The requirements for this general elective degree, as printed on p. 8 of the last "Faculty report" (June 1st 189) are also recommended to be ordered by the Board.

Salaries of Instructors.Salaries of Officers.Scholarships and Fellowships.Wages of Employees.Working ExpensesGeneral ExpensesSummary of Income and Expenses.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

19 Professors at $3,000.00

$ 57,000.00

2 Professors at $2,000.00

4,000.00

1 associate Prof. at $2,300

2,300.00

1 associate Prof. at 2,000.00

2,000.00

2 associate Prof. at 1,500.00

3,000.00

Assistants in Law

1,500.00

Chemistry

1,000.00

Elec. and Physics.

1,000.00

Ancient Languages

800.00

Mathematics

800.00

Biology

500.00

Mech. and Civil Eng.

1,000.00

Dem. Anatomy

1,000.00

Asst. Dem. Anatomy

150.00

Dem. Pathology

800.00

Director - Gymnasium

1,250.00

Total

78 100.00

Chairman

1,000.00

Proctor

2,000.00

Supt. Grounds and Buildings.

700.00

Secretary Board of Visitors,

300.00

Commissioner of Accounts

150.00

Librarian

1,000.00

Total

5 150.00

Miller Scholarships

750.00

Brown Scholarship

120.00

Mason Fellowship

210.00

Total

1 080.00

Janitor and Plumber

$ 720.00

Day and Night Watchman

960.00

Janitor of Rotunda

300.00

Janitor Museum

180.00

Janitor Anatomical Hall

240.00

Janitor Gymnasium

225.00

Janitor Chem. Laboratory

135.00

Janitor Med. Hall

135.00

Janitor Annex

135.00

Janitor Dispensory

100.00

Chairman's Messenger

120.00

Laborers

1,000.00

Total

4 250.00

Alumni Bulletin

$ 500.00

Observatory

1,610.00

Agriculture and Biology

750.00

Chemical Department

350.00

Physical Department

300.00

Engineering Department

175.00

Anatomical Material

200.00

Mineralogy and Geology

50.00

Dispensary

400.00

Library

1,000.00

Students' Reading Room

100.00

Diplomas

700.00

Printing Blanks

150.00

Catalogues

$ 900.00

Advertising

1,200.00

Gymnasium

650.00

Fuel

500.00

Lights

750.00

Fuel Gas

275.00

Path. Laboratory

250.00

Obstetrics

500.00

Oper. Surgery

100.00

Total

11,410.00

Sinking Fund

2,450.00

Interest

6,220.00

Repairs

5,000.00

Commutations of Rent

2,400.00

Contingent Fund

1,500.00

Reservoir Tax

150.00

Total

17,720.00

(1)

To secure a Catalogue for the Library for the session 1895-6

$ 500.00

(2)

For painting the woodwork of the buildings

2,000.00

(3)

In addition to the appropriation of $3,00.00 for electric wiring the sum of . . .

600.00

Memo. These last three appropriations are to be paid out of the fund for repairs and improvements, but it is to be reimbursed from the revenues or income for 1895-6, if such revenues are sufficient for that purpose, but if they should prove insufficient, then they are to be paid out of the Fayerweather fund, in so far only as the income of 1895-6 may be insufficient to pay them.

(4)

For current expenses of Prof. Kent's school.

50.00

(1)

For clerical work to complete catalogue from 1884-1894.

60.00

(2)

For expenses of committee to secure plans for a hospital

200.00

(3)

Repairing addition to Chem. Laboratory

150.00

(4)

.For paving East & West Ranges and approaches to both from the Lawn and for changing the East Range Road.

5,000.00

(5)

.For addition to Kitchen on Carr's Hill

500.00

Estimated income, including balance from last year.

118,425.95

Salaries of corps of Instructors.

78 100.00

Salaries of Officers

5 150.00

Scholarships and Fellowships

1 080.00

Wages of employees

4 250.00

Working expenses.

11,410.00

General expenses.

17,720.00

Special appropriations

3,560.00

Apparent Deficit

$2 844.05

The Committee on Finance respectfully reports that the Proctor's Annual Report and the settlement made by the Commissioner of Accounts shows a balance in the Proctor's hands, for the fiscal year ending June 15, 1895, of $889.95.

By reference to the last annual Report of this Committee it will be seen that there was an apparent deficit in revenues over appropriations of $2,919.75, but this was based upon a very much lighter attendance of students than the number that were actually in attendance, and whilst there is from the Proctor's report an apparent deficit, yet an examination of his report shows that this deficit is not likely to materialize. The income of the University for the ensuing year, including an estimated income of $1110.00, from the Fayerweather Bequest, and the income from students' fees, estimated upon a basis of Five hundred and ten students, amounts to the sum of One hundred and Eighteen Thousand, Five hundred and thirty-six dollars, (118,536.00). Adding to the sum last named the balance of $889.95 in the hands of the Proctor from last year we have the sum of $119,425.95, as the available fund for the ensuing year. The sources of said sum will appear from the reports of the Proctor and the Faculty taken together.

Appropriations.

We recommend the following appropriations.

Special Appropriations.

The following special appropriations were made by the Visitors at the meeting held June 10th, 1895:

Appendix.

In addition to the Special Appropriations hereinbefore mentioned, the following were made by the Visitors at a meeting held July 2, 1895.

Memorandum. The last two sums are appropriated out of the Fayerweather fund and are not therefore brought into the general summary.

Of the foregoing special appropriations the sum of $3100. are directed to be paid out of the income for 1895-6, but if not sufficient the said sum is to be paid out of the Fayerweather fund. This will wipe out the apparent deficit. We have no reason to doubt that this apparent deficit will be met by an increase in the attendance of students over the number we have estimated. It will be recalled that this report must be based upon mere estimates and not upon actually accomplished fact. It is most probable that the special appropriations will be met by the regular income and the Fayerweather fund will not likely be called on. The Executive Committee is respectfully asked to make no appropriations other than these herein recommended unless unavoidable.