Board of Visitors minutes (1896) March 13, 1896
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 13, 1896

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Incidental Expenses.Report of Building Committee of money's expended on RotundaTerraces or WingsAnnex or Public Hall
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rotunda

$1370.47

Terraces & Wings

3465.93

Annex (cleaning, hauling & stacking brick)

629.49

Temporary Lecture rooms

895.95

Incidental Expenses

2690.57

Total

$9050.43

Amount paid H. P. McDonald, construction fee

$ 100.00

Amount paid H. P. McDonald, traveling expenses

41.00

Amount of warrant #34 to cover amts paid by Proctor without warrants

1583.21

Amount paid Wampler for views sent to N. Y.

4.50

Amount paid for Iron safe & frt. for Committee

60.00

Amount paid Lipscomb, Livery for firemen

8.50

Amount paid W. G. McCabe exp. to N. Y. & books purchased

57.65

Amount paid Expenses of firemen, at fire

33.35

Amount paid Expenses of Profrs Thornton & Dabney to Richmond

33.15

Amount paid Anderson & Bro. stationery, books etc.

9.40

Amount paid Wills Drug Co. sundries

1.85

Amount paid W. U. Telegraph Co, for telegrams

11.85

Amount paid C. P. Benson, salary

100.00

Amount paid W. T. Martin store fittings for Museum, Jeff. & Wash Halls

67.02

\*\*Only $120. of this $300. has been expended, the balance is in the Proctor's hands subject to the order of the Rector. Amount paid W. C. N. Randolph appr

300.00

Amount paid Profr W. H. Perkinson books sent Dr T. N. Page

1.25

Amount paid G. W. Olivier Views & Annual

4.50

Amount paid So. R'y Col. frt on Fire Engine

43.64

Amount paid Repairs & Improvmt Fund, for work at Museum Jeff. & Wash Hall,

47.35

Amount paid Lipscomb hack hire for Commee

18.50

Amount paid Dr W. C. N. Randolph Postage, Telegrams, Exp. Chage etc.

34.00

Amount paid E. A. Roberts Stenography & Typewriting

10.00

Amount paid C. P. Benson salary

50.00

Amount paid W. G. McCabe exp. to meeting

33.75

Amount paid A. D. Wright Hotel bill for Commee

24.10

Amount paid A. C. Gordon Exp. to meeting

12.00

2690.57

Amount paid for Carpenter's work

778.19

Amount paid for Day Laborers

138.59

Amount paid for removing debris

71.95

Amount paid for Lumber

284.00

Amount paid for Hardware

66.94

Amount paid for Watchmen

13.00

Amount paid for Cotton cloth for windows

10.00

Amount paid for Rope

7.80

Total

$1370.47

Amount paid for carpenters work

167.72

Amount paid for Brick layers

147.14

Amount paid for Day Laborers

44.02

Amount paid for Derrick

100.00

Amount paid for Iron Beams

900.00

Amount paid for frt on Iron Beams

86.11

Amount paid for hauling Iron Beams

7.00

Amount paid for frt on plaster

58.87

Amount paid for Lime & Cement

31.30

Amount paid for sand

15.20

Amount paid for putting in gas pipes

52.50

Amount paid Cranford Paving Co.

1000.00

Amount paid Nettycomb & Kell for cement etc.

551.83

Amount paid for Keystone Gas Meter

22.50

Amount paid Wenger & Brand, Plastering & Material

281.80

$3465.99

Amount paid for cleaning, hauling & stacking brick

$ 269.49

Temporary Lecture Building.

Amount paid for Carpenters' work

254.54

Amount paid for Lumber

352.11

Amount paid for Hardware

120.51

Amount paid for Desks & Blackboards

59.00

Amount paid for Insurance

16.12

Amount paid for Lime & cement

11.01

Amount paid Bricklayers

10.62

Amount paid Fitting up stoves

8.00

Amount paid Painting & Material

26.50

Amount paid Plumbing

37.50

$ 895.95

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held in pursuance of a call by the Rector, and notice, on the 13th day of March 1896.

Present= W. C. N. Randolph, Rector, and Visitors, Legh R. Watts, Mashall McCormick, Camm Patteson, A. C. Gordon, R. T. Irvine, Joseph Bryan and Daniel Harmon; the last named three of whom, are of the Visitors recently commissioned by the Governor, Mr Irvine succeeding himself.

The newly commissioned Visitors, filed certificates of their qualification as Visitors, as follows:

Mr Irvine,- a certif. of the clerk of the Corporation Court of the city of Lynchburg, Va.

Mr Bryan - a certif. of E. C. Minor, Judge of the Law and Equity Court of the City of Richmond, Va,            and Mr Harmon - a certif. of the clerk of the county court of the County of Albemarle, Va.

The Rector appointed the following committees:

Finance,

Messrs Watts, McCormick and Harmon.

Conduct of Schools & Examination of Students,

Messrs Gordon, Irvine & Bryan.

Library & Apparatus,

Messrs Bryan, Patteson & McIlwaine.

Grounds & Buildings,

Messrs McCormick, Gordon & Watts.

Health, Infirmary, etc.

Messrs Irvine, McIlwaine & Patteson.

Miller Board,

Messrs Patteson, Harmon & McIlwaine.

The Chairman of the Faculty laid before the Board a report of the Faculty of date March 12th 1896.

The Building Committee submitted its report, wich was read and considered, and the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved; That the Report of the Building Committee be received and spread upon the records, and its action in the matter of terminating the contract with McDonald Bros. and making an arrangement with Messrs McKim, Mead & White for formulating plans, specifications etc. for the proposed buildings, be and the same is hereby ratified and confirmed. Said report is in the following words and figures:

To the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Immediately upon our appointment as the Building Committee, in compliance with your directions employed McDonald Bros. of Louisville, K'y as Architects for the restoration of the Rotunda and its wings. We also assigned to them the duty of demolishing the Annex and preparing, by removing such materials as were worth it and leveling the debris, for the construction of the esplanade as designed in the plan adopted by yourselves in your last meeting. The Architect was directed to furnish plans and to rebuild the wings as speedily as possible; their needs, as lecture rooms being very great. He was also instructed, the original design for those wings having been furnished him, to adhere as closely as was possible and as consistent with making the two buildings fire-proof, to this original design. His plans, to wit flat roofs continuous with level of the Rotunda portico floor, to be made as nearly as possible, water-proof, heat proof and sound proof, with railings surrounding it on three sides in accord with the style of architecture of the surrounding buildings; a cement floor, in place of the wooden floor, having no wood but the doors and windows, was adopted. It was also decided, it being in accordance with the original design, that the two doors entering each of the rooms from the passage-ways, should be in arches corresponding exactly in size and a continuation of the arches under the Rotunda. The repair of the walls, that had been damaged by explosives and the calculation as to their strength, were left entirely to the Architect. In presenting his plans he stated that the buildings would be ready for use about the first of January. The protection of the walls of the Rotunda, by a temporary roof was also assigned to him. This was speedily done and in a satisfactory manner. On the arrival of the steel substructure and its being put in place and when half the concrete roofing had been put on, it began to be suspected that the steel sub-structure was too weak. This with the intense coldness of the weather, so cold that cement could not be safely worked induced us to stop the work. The concrete having been supposed by Mr McDonald to be unsafe, The Cranford Co. sent an architect as an expert to decide as to it. He reported the steel beams of the roof as too weak. This led to a thorough investigation ably conducted by Mr Dessez supervised and verified by Profr Wm M. Thornton. The report justified this suspicion. An interview then with Mr H. P. McDonald induced him, upon our expressing the desire to put the whole matter of the construction and reconstruction in the hands of Messrs McKim, Mead & White of New York, to withdraw from the service of the University upon our agreeing to pay him the usual architects price of 2 1/2 % for his design,he agreeing to pay for the strengthening of the steel substructure of the wings. Your Committee then employed Mr Stanford White of the concern of McKim, Mead & White, as the architect, not only for the new buildings, but for the reconstruction of the Rotunda and its wings. In his appointment for the reconstruction, Your Committee are aware that they have exceeded their authority, but confidently ask your confirmation of their action. This action was taken upon the 18th day of January. Owing to an attack of sickness, Mr White did not get here for a fortnight. He thoroughly investigated the difficulties of the problem he had to solve, asked us that we would get for him at once contour lines in order that he might fix his locations, said that it would take him some time to develop his plans, but that he would be as expeditions as was practicable. He appeared before the Committee on the second day of March. The Committee adopted his plans subject to the revision of your body, except that they required that he should value the total expenditure for his buildings, grounds, etc. to the sum of $250,000.00, and consented that in doing this, he should not be required to make his new buildings fire-proof, but that the plan for making the Rotunda and its two wings fire proof should be held to. It is unnecessary in the Report of this Committee to enter into the plans as Mr White will be before you with the drawings and specifications and can more easily explain them than we can. We beg leave further to state, that pressed by the absolute need of two new Lecture rooms we have erected a cheap wooden building to supply this need.

The best mode of getting brick for the buildings of the size and color used in the old buildings has been closely looked into. Clay almost identical with the clay of the original bricks has been found and enough for a half million of brick has been gotten out and exposed to the weather. The yard will be prepared and brick will be moulded as soon as the weather will permit. We append herewith the financial report of the Building Committee as furnished to us by the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds. The amounts expended are stated as follows and will be found to be itemized in the Report:

On examining the items it will be found that there is quite a large amount of supplies for future use on hand. That at the request of the Executive Committee they turned over to the Superintendent of Buildings & Grounds for his repair fund between $700.00 and $1000.00, an amount expended by the University force in paying for repairs incident to the fire.

Only $120. of this $300. has been expended, the balance is in the Proctor's hands subject to the order of the Rector.

Resolved, that the vacancy on the Building Committee caused by the retirement of Mr W. Gordon McCabe from the Board of Visitors, be filled by the appointment of Judge Legh R. Watts and that an additional member from the Board be appointed; and that Mr Daniel Harmon be appointed a member of said Committee.

Resolved, that the sum of $1387.88 be and the same is hereby allowed McDonald Bros. & Spooner, that being the amount due on account of commissions etc. for plans furnished work done etc. after deducting the sum of $750. estimated cost of strengthening terrace roof, it being understood that if the cost of strengthening said roof be less than the amount named the balance is to be paid over to Messrs McDonald Bros & Spooner, the same to be accepted by them in full satisfaction of all accounts due them.

Mr Stanford White, architect, by invitation from the Board was present and exhibited and explaned his plans and drawings for the rebuilding of the Rotunda and for the new buildings proposed to be erected.

At the same time a committee of the Faculty was present consisting of Profrs Mallet, Smith and Kent and presented a report of the Faculty supplementary to the Faculty's report to the Board at its called meeting held on the 4th of November 1895 and which report was considered and action then taken thereon by the Board in respect to the recommendation of the report in reference to rebuilding the interior of the Rotunda, &c.

In this supplementary report, which was read to the Board by Prof. Mallet, for reasons therein set forth it is recommended and urged, that the Rotunda be restored as nearly as possible, inside as well as outside, to the appearance it presented before the late fire etc. After the reading of the report the Committee was informed by the Rector that if the members wished to add anything in furtherance of the recommendations of the Faculty report the Board would be pleased to hear them, which was availed of by each member of the Committee, and among other things it was stated that the faculty was a unit on the question, save one member, Profr Thornton, who was in favor of adopting the plan Architect White submits. No action was taken in regard to the report.

On motion Mr Harmon was elected to fill the vancey on the Executive Committee caused by the retirement of Mr McCabe from the Board.

Mr McCormick moved the adoption of the following resolution.

Resolved, that the action of the Building Committee in accepting and approving the plans submitted by McKim, Mead & White for rebuilding the Rotunda and the proposed new buildings be approved and the said plans are now accepted and adopted by the Visitors.

Mr Patteson offered the following as an amendment: The Board of Visitors of the University do not bind themselves to the estimate until details have been presented to accompany the plans.

Mr Gordon moved that the resolution be laid on the table which by a vote thereon was carried and the amendment was laid on the table.

The previous question was then called and a vote was taken on the resolution of Mr McCormick by ayes and nos, as called for, and the resolution adopted by a unanimous vote, Mr Patteson stating that in voting for the resolution he wished it entered of record that he voted for the plans of the Architect as proper and complete, but with the express understanding that they are not accepted unless the specifications accompany the plans.

Mr McCormick moved the adoption of the following resolution:

Resolved, that the execution of the plan for the rebuilding of the Rotunda and the erection of the new buildings as proposed by said plans be referred to the Building Committee with authority in said Committee to change details only but not to change the plan adopted. Said Committee shall make a contract or contracts with such person or persons as they may select to carry out said plans but in no event shall the cost of the full completion of the said buildings, ready for use, exceed the sum of $250,000.00, exclusive of the Architects charges. A contract shall be made out, the Architects to supervise and direct and inspect the construction of said buildings. The Architect shall submit to the Committee, to be made a part of the contract with the builder complete specifications and details, provided however the said building Committee shall invite the bids of such persons or builders as it may select so as to get the work well done at the lowest cost.

Mr Patteson offered the following as an amendment to Mr McCormick's resolution:

If the specifications show that the buildings can be made at less than $250,000.00 then the buildings must be made at the smaller amount.

On the motion of Mr Gordon the amendment was ordered to be laid on the table.

The vote was then taken on the resolution of Mr McCormick resulting in its adoption.

Mr Patteson moved the adoption of the following resolution:

Resolved, that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia are deeply grateful for the generous aid extended to the Institution by the State of Virginia in its time of need, and it offers to the public and requests bids for the erection of new buildings, it being the object of the Board that all the people of Virginia shall have an equal opportunity to bid for this work.

On motion of Mr McCormick the resolution was ordered to be laid on the table.

Resolved, that the Visitors acknowledge with grateful appreciation the generosity of such persons as have contributed to the rebuilding of the Rotunda, the erection of the proposed new structures, and the restoration of the Library and scientific apparatus of the University to a condition of efficiency; and as it is impossible to make due personal ac- knowledgement to each contributor, they hereby direct their Secretary to give publicity to this action of the Visitors in some convenient newspaper, and to send a copy of this resolution to each of the donors, so far as practicable.

Resolved, that the Visitors acknowledge with grateful thanks the generoisity of Charles B. Rouss in contributing $25000.00 to the restoration fund of the University of Va and in testimony of their appreciation do hereby order that the new laboratory to be erected for the School of Natural Philosophy shall be called the Rouss Physical Laboratory.

1\. Resolved, that the cordial and hearty thanks of this Board be returned to Mr Stanford White for his generous offer to deduct from his fees as Architect the amount which this Board had contracted to pay to Messrs McDonald Brothers; and that we appreciate at their highest worth the great interest and enthusiasm which Mr White has manifested in connection with the rebuilding of the University.

2\. Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions, suitably embossed, be forwarded to Mr White.

A petition was received from the Jefferson Literary Society of the University praying that the Board to release the Society from its indebtedness to the University. It was read and on motion ordered to be laid on the table.

Mr Harmon moved the adoption of the following resolution:

Resolved, that the Finance Committee be and they are hereby authorized to negotiate the sale of $200,000. Bonds for the benefit of the University, the same to be secured by mortgage. Said bonds to be issued and secured in accordance with the Act of Assembly approved January 23d 1896. Said bonds to be sold at not less than par and to bear interest payable semiannually at a rate not exceeding 5%.

That the said Committee shall also have authority to employ counsel to prepare the form of bond and mortgage and report the same to the Board of Visitors for approval.

Mr Patteson offered the following as an amendment to the foregoing resolution:

These bonds are to be offered to the public in sums of not less than $10,000.00 for the period of thirty days: the bids to be under seal and to be allotted to the highest bidders, of which the sum of fifty per cent in cash and the remainder in thirty days from date, the bonds not to be delivered until the whole purchase money is paid.

To this amendment Mr McCormick offered the following as an amendment: But the said finance Committee shall have power to place all of the said bonds with any one person, Bank or other Corporation.

The vote was taken upon Mr McCormick's amendment and it was adopted, then the vote was taken upon Mr Patteson's amendment as amended, by ayes and nos and it was defeated by the following vote, ayes 1, Mr Patteson. Noes 7.

It was then moved that the vote be taken upon Mr Harmon's resolution, and that the vote be taken by ayes and nos which was ordered and the vote thus taken which resulted in the adoption of the resolution by 7 voting for it and 1 against it, Mr Patteson.

Resolved, that the Building Committee be and is hereby authorized to employ such agencies as they may think proper to procure further contributions to the restoration fund of the University of Virginia.

A communication was received from Profr Charles S. Venable of which the following is a copy:

To the Rector and Visitors of the University.

Dear Sirs. I hereby tender my resignation as Professor of Mathematics in the University to take effect at the close of the present session. My failing health and advancing age making it desirable for me to retire from public life, and let younger men take up the work.

Wishing your honorable body large success in the promotion of the best interests of the great school of the people, over which you preside,

The letter was read to the Board and thereupon the following preamble and resolution was unanimously adopted:

The Visitors have received with profound regret the resignation of Profr Chas S. Venable of the Chair of Mathematics which he has filled with distinguished ability for so many years. His services have been of inestimable value to the University, his record as a teacher is unequalled by that of any other in a like department, and his efficiency has been manifested in the education of the young men who have been under his tutilage=

Resolved, that the Visitors with great reluctance accept the resignation of Col Venable, but at the same time they desire to express their high appreciation of his valuable services to the University and to the youth of the country who have received their teaching in Mathematics under him. The Visitors in expressing their appreciation of the services of Col Venable, desire to tender to him their heart felt wish for a speedy restoration to good health. His high sense of honor and strict personal integrity have not only impressed him upon us but also has made its impression upon the many youths who have had the good fortune to come under his teaching.

Mr Gordon moved the adoption of the following resolution:

Resolved, that Wm H. Echols be elected professor of Pure Mathematics, and James Morris Page, Adjunct Professor of Pure Mathematics, the former at a salary of $2600.00, and the latter at a salary of $1500.00, their terms to begin at the beginning of the session of 1896-1897, and for the period of one year.

Mr Watts moved that the consideration of this resolution be postponed until the annual meeting in June next. Upon this motion a vote by ayes and nos was called for and had and resulted in the defeat of the motion by a vote of two in favor, viz, Messrs Bryan and Watts to 6 against viz the Rector, and Messrs McCormick, Gordon, Patteson, Irvine and Harmon.

The vote was then taken on the adoption of the resolution offered by Mr Gordon and a vote by ayes & nos was called for and had with the following result: Ayes, the Rector & Messrs McCormick, Patteson, Gordon, Irvine and Harmon - 6 - Nos Mr Watts 1 - Mr Bryan not voting. The resolution was adopted.

Mr Watts asked to have it noted on the records that he voted against the resolution not because of his opposition to the resolution but to its consideration before the annual meeting in June next.

The following resolution in recognition of Mrs. L. T. Leitch's offer to donate to the Library a lot of medical books which belonged to her late husband, Dr Jas A. Leitch decd was adopted=

Resolved, the Board of Visitors gratefully accepts Mrs L. T. Leitch's offer of her late husband's medical library, but as the Library Building has been destroyed they beg Mrs Leitch to retain the Books until they can provide a place to hold them, at which time a representative of the University will apply to Mrs Leitch for them.

Profr Echols having tendered his resignation as Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings on motion it was excepted but not to take effect until the close of the session.

Resolved, that the application of Mr Sugino for a special examination in Mathematics to be held in Tokio, Japan, under the direction of Profr James McDonald Gardner, in manner as recommended in Section 4 of the Faculty's report of March 12th 1896, be granted.

Resolved, that the application of Mr Wm J. Perkins for the remission of a ratable portion of his matriculation fee for the present session be granted, for reasons set forth in his application and upon the recommendation of Sec. 5 of said report of the Faculty, and that Mr J. A. Penton who makes a similar application for a return of a ratable portion of his fees for last session be granted for reasons set forth in his application and upon the recommendation of the Faculty in section 6. of their said report of Mar 12th 1896.

Resolved, that as recommended by the Chairman of the Faculty, the Faculty be authorized to make suitable provision either in some one of the public buildings in Charlottesville or otherwise for the final celebration at the close of the session.

Ordered, that the books referred to in Section 13 of the Faculty's report of March 12th 1896, be moved to a safe place.

Ordered, that the recommendation in Sec. 14 of the report of the Faculty above referred to in regard to expenses of fitting up the lecture room of the Profr Natural Philosophy, be referred to the Building Committee.

Ordered, that Sec. 15 of said report of the Faculty in regard to obtaining a bird's eye view of the grounds & buildings of the University, including the projected new buildings, to be reproduced and distributed as an advertisement (or even sold), be referred to the building Committee.

Ordered, that Sec. 16 of the same report, in regard to employing a stenographer for service at the office of the Chairman of the Faculty, be referred to the Building Committee.

Resolved, that the resignation of Mr W. B. Tuttle instructor in Biology be accepted and that the arrangement made by him with Mr O. M. Ball be approved, provided there be no additional cost to the University.

Resolved, that Dr J. Carrington Harrison and Dr Lyman Skeen, Jr, are hereby permitted to matriculate for this session in the Academic Department of the University, without charge, either for matriculation or tuition fees, in consideration of the services rendered by them during the current session as assistant demonstrators in Histology & Pathology, which services have been rendered without salary or pay of any sort.

Consideration of the Report of the Committee of the Faculty to which was referred the resolution proposing the formation of a class in Comparative Philology in the School of the English Language was postponed to the next annual meeting of the Board.

Resolved, that a committee of three be appointed by the Rector to take into consideration and report to the Visitors at their June meeting what, if anything, can be done to reduce the expenses of the University. The Rector appointed Visitors, McCormick, Watts & Harmon, as the committee.

Resolved, that Profr James A. Harrison be given, either the pavilion occupied by Col Venable or that occupied by Profr Buckmaster, as he may prefer.

Resolved, that the matter of the application of Dr Buckmaster to tap a water main for a supply of water, is referred to the Building Committee with power to act.

Resolved, that the consideration of the proposition of Dr Ott be postponed till the regular June meeting and that the Rector appoint a Committee of three to report to that meeting thereupon. The Rector appointed as the Committee Visitors, Gordon, Watts and Harmon.

Resolved, that a Committee of three be appointed by the Rector to take into consideration and report to the June meeting what, if anything, is necessary for the reorganization of any of the departments of the University. The Rector appointed as said Committee Visitors McCormick, Harmon and Watts.

Resolved, that the Rector make, execute and deliver to to Jesse L. Maury a deed for the land purchased by him, to be attested by the Secretary, it appearing that said Maury has purchased and paid for said land but has never received his deed therefor.

Rotunda

$1370.47

Terraces & Wings

3465.93

Annex (cleaning, hauling & stacking brick)

629.49

Temporary Lecture rooms

895.95

Incidental Expenses

2690.57

Total

$9050.43

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held in pursuance of a call by the Rector, and notice, on the 13th day of March 1896.

Present= W. C. N. Randolph, Rector, and Visitors, Legh R. Watts, Mashall McCormick, Camm Patteson, A. C. Gordon, R. T. Irvine, Joseph Bryan and Daniel Harmon; the last named three of whom, are of the Visitors recently commissioned by the Governor, Mr Irvine succeeding himself.

The newly commissioned Visitors, filed certificates of their qualification as Visitors, as follows:

Mr Irvine,- a certif. of the clerk of the Corporation Court of the city of Lynchburg, Va.

Mr Bryan - a certif. of E. C. Minor, Judge of the Law and Equity Court of the City of Richmond, Va,            and Mr Harmon - a certif. of the clerk of the county court of the County of Albemarle, Va.

The Rector appointed the following committees:

Finance,

Messrs Watts, McCormick and Harmon.

Conduct of Schools & Examination of Students,

Messrs Gordon, Irvine & Bryan.

Library & Apparatus,

Messrs Bryan, Patteson & McIlwaine.

Grounds & Buildings,

Messrs McCormick, Gordon & Watts.

Health, Infirmary, etc.

Messrs Irvine, McIlwaine & Patteson.

Miller Board,

Messrs Patteson, Harmon & McIlwaine.

The Chairman of the Faculty laid before the Board a report of the Faculty of date March 12th 1896.

The Building Committee submitted its report, wich was read and considered, and the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved; That the Report of the Building Committee be received and spread upon the records, and its action in the matter of terminating the contract with McDonald Bros. and making an arrangement with Messrs McKim, Mead & White for formulating plans, specifications etc. for the proposed buildings, be and the same is hereby ratified and confirmed. Said report is in the following words and figures:

To the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Immediately upon our appointment as the Building Committee, in compliance with your directions employed McDonald Bros. of Louisville, K'y as Architects for the restoration of the Rotunda and its wings. We also assigned to them the duty of demolishing the Annex and preparing, by removing such materials as were worth it and leveling the debris, for the construction of the esplanade as designed in the plan adopted by yourselves in your last meeting. The Architect was directed to furnish plans and to rebuild the wings as speedily as possible; their needs, as lecture rooms being very great. He was also instructed, the original design for those wings having been furnished him, to adhere as closely as was possible and as consistent with making the two buildings fire-proof, to this original design. His plans, to wit flat roofs continuous with level of the Rotunda portico floor, to be made as nearly as possible, water-proof, heat proof and sound proof, with railings surrounding it on three sides in accord with the style of architecture of the surrounding buildings; a cement floor, in place of the wooden floor, having no wood but the doors and windows, was adopted. It was also decided, it being in accordance with the original design, that the two doors entering each of the rooms from the passage-ways, should be in arches corresponding exactly in size and a continuation of the arches under the Rotunda. The repair of the walls, that had been damaged by explosives and the calculation as to their strength, were left entirely to the Architect. In presenting his plans he stated that the buildings would be ready for use about the first of January. The protection of the walls of the Rotunda, by a temporary roof was also assigned to him. This was speedily done and in a satisfactory manner. On the arrival of the steel substructure and its being put in place and when half the concrete roofing had been put on, it began to be suspected that the steel sub-structure was too weak. This with the intense coldness of the weather, so cold that cement could not be safely worked induced us to stop the work. The concrete having been supposed by Mr McDonald to be unsafe, The Cranford Co. sent an architect as an expert to decide as to it. He reported the steel beams of the roof as too weak. This led to a thorough investigation ably conducted by Mr Dessez supervised and verified by Profr Wm M. Thornton. The report justified this suspicion. An interview then with Mr H. P. McDonald induced him, upon our expressing the desire to put the whole matter of the construction and reconstruction in the hands of Messrs McKim, Mead & White of New York, to withdraw from the service of the University upon our agreeing to pay him the usual architects price of 2 1/2 % for his design,he agreeing to pay for the strengthening of the steel substructure of the wings. Your Committee then employed Mr Stanford White of the concern of McKim, Mead & White, as the architect, not only for the new buildings, but for the reconstruction of the Rotunda and its wings. In his appointment for the reconstruction, Your Committee are aware that they have exceeded their authority, but confidently ask your confirmation of their action. This action was taken upon the 18th day of January. Owing to an attack of sickness, Mr White did not get here for a fortnight. He thoroughly investigated the difficulties of the problem he had to solve, asked us that we would get for him at once contour lines in order that he might fix his locations, said that it would take him some time to develop his plans, but that he would be as expeditions as was practicable. He appeared before the Committee on the second day of March. The Committee adopted his plans subject to the revision of your body, except that they required that he should value the total expenditure for his buildings, grounds, etc. to the sum of $250,000.00, and consented that in doing this, he should not be required to make his new buildings fire-proof, but that the plan for making the Rotunda and its two wings fire proof should be held to. It is unnecessary in the Report of this Committee to enter into the plans as Mr White will be before you with the drawings and specifications and can more easily explain them than we can. We beg leave further to state, that pressed by the absolute need of two new Lecture rooms we have erected a cheap wooden building to supply this need.

The best mode of getting brick for the buildings of the size and color used in the old buildings has been closely looked into. Clay almost identical with the clay of the original bricks has been found and enough for a half million of brick has been gotten out and exposed to the weather. The yard will be prepared and brick will be moulded as soon as the weather will permit. We append herewith the financial report of the Building Committee as furnished to us by the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds. The amounts expended are stated as follows and will be found to be itemized in the Report:

On examining the items it will be found that there is quite a large amount of supplies for future use on hand. That at the request of the Executive Committee they turned over to the Superintendent of Buildings & Grounds for his repair fund between $700.00 and $1000.00, an amount expended by the University force in paying for repairs incident to the fire.

To the Rector and Visitors of the University.

Dear Sirs. I hereby tender my resignation as Professor of Mathematics in the University to take effect at the close of the present session. My failing health and advancing age making it desirable for me to retire from public life, and let younger men take up the work.

Wishing your honorable body large success in the promotion of the best interests of the great school of the people, over which you preside,

Rotunda

$1370.47

Terraces & Wings

3465.93

Annex (cleaning, hauling & stacking brick)

629.49

Temporary Lecture rooms

895.95

Incidental Expenses

2690.57

Total

$9050.43

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held in pursuance of a call by the Rector, and notice, on the 13th day of March 1896.

Present= W. C. N. Randolph, Rector, and Visitors, Legh R. Watts, Mashall McCormick, Camm Patteson, A. C. Gordon, R. T. Irvine, Joseph Bryan and Daniel Harmon; the last named three of whom, are of the Visitors recently commissioned by the Governor, Mr Irvine succeeding himself.

The newly commissioned Visitors, filed certificates of their qualification as Visitors, as follows:

Mr Irvine,- a certif. of the clerk of the Corporation Court of the city of Lynchburg, Va.

Mr Bryan - a certif. of E. C. Minor, Judge of the Law and Equity Court of the City of Richmond, Va,            and Mr Harmon - a certif. of the clerk of the county court of the County of Albemarle, Va.

The Rector appointed the following committees:

Finance,

Messrs Watts, McCormick and Harmon.

Conduct of Schools & Examination of Students,

Messrs Gordon, Irvine & Bryan.

Library & Apparatus,

Messrs Bryan, Patteson & McIlwaine.

Grounds & Buildings,

Messrs McCormick, Gordon & Watts.

Health, Infirmary, etc.

Messrs Irvine, McIlwaine & Patteson.

Miller Board,

Messrs Patteson, Harmon & McIlwaine.

The Chairman of the Faculty laid before the Board a report of the Faculty of date March 12th 1896.

The Building Committee submitted its report, wich was read and considered, and the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved; That the Report of the Building Committee be received and spread upon the records, and its action in the matter of terminating the contract with McDonald Bros. and making an arrangement with Messrs McKim, Mead & White for formulating plans, specifications etc. for the proposed buildings, be and the same is hereby ratified and confirmed. Said report is in the following words and figures:

To the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Immediately upon our appointment as the Building Committee, in compliance with your directions employed McDonald Bros. of Louisville, K'y as Architects for the restoration of the Rotunda and its wings. We also assigned to them the duty of demolishing the Annex and preparing, by removing such materials as were worth it and leveling the debris, for the construction of the esplanade as designed in the plan adopted by yourselves in your last meeting. The Architect was directed to furnish plans and to rebuild the wings as speedily as possible; their needs, as lecture rooms being very great. He was also instructed, the original design for those wings having been furnished him, to adhere as closely as was possible and as consistent with making the two buildings fire-proof, to this original design. His plans, to wit flat roofs continuous with level of the Rotunda portico floor, to be made as nearly as possible, water-proof, heat proof and sound proof, with railings surrounding it on three sides in accord with the style of architecture of the surrounding buildings; a cement floor, in place of the wooden floor, having no wood but the doors and windows, was adopted. It was also decided, it being in accordance with the original design, that the two doors entering each of the rooms from the passage-ways, should be in arches corresponding exactly in size and a continuation of the arches under the Rotunda. The repair of the walls, that had been damaged by explosives and the calculation as to their strength, were left entirely to the Architect. In presenting his plans he stated that the buildings would be ready for use about the first of January. The protection of the walls of the Rotunda, by a temporary roof was also assigned to him. This was speedily done and in a satisfactory manner. On the arrival of the steel substructure and its being put in place and when half the concrete roofing had been put on, it began to be suspected that the steel sub-structure was too weak. This with the intense coldness of the weather, so cold that cement could not be safely worked induced us to stop the work. The concrete having been supposed by Mr McDonald to be unsafe, The Cranford Co. sent an architect as an expert to decide as to it. He reported the steel beams of the roof as too weak. This led to a thorough investigation ably conducted by Mr Dessez supervised and verified by Profr Wm M. Thornton. The report justified this suspicion. An interview then with Mr H. P. McDonald induced him, upon our expressing the desire to put the whole matter of the construction and reconstruction in the hands of Messrs McKim, Mead & White of New York, to withdraw from the service of the University upon our agreeing to pay him the usual architects price of 2 1/2 % for his design,he agreeing to pay for the strengthening of the steel substructure of the wings. Your Committee then employed Mr Stanford White of the concern of McKim, Mead & White, as the architect, not only for the new buildings, but for the reconstruction of the Rotunda and its wings. In his appointment for the reconstruction, Your Committee are aware that they have exceeded their authority, but confidently ask your confirmation of their action. This action was taken upon the 18th day of January. Owing to an attack of sickness, Mr White did not get here for a fortnight. He thoroughly investigated the difficulties of the problem he had to solve, asked us that we would get for him at once contour lines in order that he might fix his locations, said that it would take him some time to develop his plans, but that he would be as expeditions as was practicable. He appeared before the Committee on the second day of March. The Committee adopted his plans subject to the revision of your body, except that they required that he should value the total expenditure for his buildings, grounds, etc. to the sum of $250,000.00, and consented that in doing this, he should not be required to make his new buildings fire-proof, but that the plan for making the Rotunda and its two wings fire proof should be held to. It is unnecessary in the Report of this Committee to enter into the plans as Mr White will be before you with the drawings and specifications and can more easily explain them than we can. We beg leave further to state, that pressed by the absolute need of two new Lecture rooms we have erected a cheap wooden building to supply this need.

The best mode of getting brick for the buildings of the size and color used in the old buildings has been closely looked into. Clay almost identical with the clay of the original bricks has been found and enough for a half million of brick has been gotten out and exposed to the weather. The yard will be prepared and brick will be moulded as soon as the weather will permit. We append herewith the financial report of the Building Committee as furnished to us by the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds. The amounts expended are stated as follows and will be found to be itemized in the Report:

On examining the items it will be found that there is quite a large amount of supplies for future use on hand. That at the request of the Executive Committee they turned over to the Superintendent of Buildings & Grounds for his repair fund between $700.00 and $1000.00, an amount expended by the University force in paying for repairs incident to the fire.

To the Rector and Visitors of the University.

Dear Sirs. I hereby tender my resignation as Professor of Mathematics in the University to take effect at the close of the present session. My failing health and advancing age making it desirable for me to retire from public life, and let younger men take up the work.

Wishing your honorable body large success in the promotion of the best interests of the great school of the people, over which you preside,