Board of Visitors minutes (1899) March 2, 1899
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 2, 1899

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, called by the Rector and held in pursuance of notice, on the 2nd day of March, 1899.

Present.- Charles P. Jones, Rector, and Visitors, Daniel Harmon, Joseph Bryan, R. T. Irvine, A. B. Chandler, G. W. Miles, Carter Glass and Dr. M. Q. Holt, vice, W. B. McIlwaine, resigned. Dr. Holt having taken and subscribed to the oaths of office as Visitor, before Hon. John M. White, Judge of the County Court of Albemarle County, Va., on the date above, before entering upon the duties of his office, said oaths being taken and subscribed in vacation of said court.

Absent- H. H. Downing, Visitor.

Dr. Barringer, Chairman of the Faculty, submitted a report dated Feb. 27, 1899, with accompanying papers referred to in the same and the Proctor's report.

Plans and drawings for the Randall Dormitory building were submitted by various architects for the examination and consideration of the Visitors.

The report of the Chairman was read and the following was enacted

Resolved: That the Proctor is directed to take no action under the resolution passed by this Board March 18, 1898, authorizing him to make a certain payment to McKim, Mead & White out of the balance of the Fayerweather bequest when received, until further authorized thereto by this Board.

Ordered: That one-half of the salary of Professor Perkinson for the remainder of the session since his death be paid to his widow.

Resolved: That the drawings submitted by Mr. Paul J. Pelz of Washington, D. C., for the Randall dormitory be accepted by the Board and that the Building Committee be authorized to employ Mr. Pelz to supervise the construction of the same.

Be it further resolved that the Building Committee be directed and authorized to enter into a contract with a reliable builder to construct said Randall dormitory at a cost not to exceed $17000, and to take proper precautions for the faithful performance of the said contract.

Resolved: That the Board request the Faculty to designate certain of the members of its body to visit the various colleges of the State before the present school year closes, for the purpose of conferring with the faculties of these institutions with a view to correlating the work between them and the University, and to cultivate a mutual good will between the institutions of learning in this state and this University; and that on such a visit the member of the University faculty shall seek opportunity to address the student bodies of these institutions in regard to the work done at the University, especially in the Master of Arts Courses.

Resolved: That the Faculty be allowed to prepare and insert in the forthcoming catalogue of the University a scheme for a four years course in the Medical Dept.

Resolved: 1st. That the sum of $20,000 00, or so much thereof as may be necessary, be and is hereby appropriated to be devoted to the purpose of inaugurating a suitable hospital building and equipping the same at the University, said sum to be paid out of the first funds to be derived from the Fayerweather bequest.

Resolved: 2nd.- That the Chairman of the Faculty together with the Medical Faculty are authorized to provide plans for suitable buildings, not to exceed in cost the sum of $15,000.00 complete, to be presented to the Board at its June meeting, and to recommend a site for the same.

Resolved: That the action of the executive committee, through Daniel Harmon, its chairman, in securing Prof. M. W. Humphreys to teach the classes of the late Prof. Perkinson during the remainder of this session be, and it is hereby, ratified and approved, and the Board records its appreciation of the valuable and disinterested services of Prof. Humphreys in this matter.

Resolved: The Rector and Board of Visitors of the U. Va. desire to express their thanks to Mr. J. R. Cooledge, Jr. for the offer of designs for the new Dormitory building at this University and to say that they greatly regret that in the absence of Mr. Cooledge's plans, and the necessity for immediate decision they have been obliged to adopt the plans and specifications of another.

Resolved: That the sum of One hundred and Fifty Dollars be appropriated to pay for the services of Mr. Tilley for assisting Dr. Kent in his work.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at nine o'clock

March 3, 1899.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday.

The following was enacted

Whereas Col. Wm. E. Peters has informed the Board of Visitors that he intends to resign his Professorship of Latin in the University of Virginia to take effect June 1902, and

Whereas, with this knowledge, the Board should take steps to have his work continued in worthy hands, and

Whereas Prof. Thos. Fitzhugh of the Chair of Latin in the University of Texas has expressed his willingness to accept a professorship of Latin in the Univ. of Va. on condition that he be given a three years leave of absence without pay, subject however to recall by the Board at their pleasure, and will spend two of these years studying at the University of Berlin, Germany and one in travel and research in classic lands.

Therefore be it

Resolved: That Prof. Thos. Fitzhugh be and is hereby elected a Professor of Latin in the University of Va. on the conditions and with the understanding stated above.

Resolved: That Chas. A. Young be and he is hereby elected Instructor in Hebrew at a salary of $600.00 per session, his services to commence the beginning of the next session, and that Professor Humphreys be requested to inaugurate a course in New Testament Greek, and that these announcements be appropriately made in the next catalogue.

Resolved: That the Advertising Committee suggested to the Board by the Chairman be appointed as an advertising Committee, consisting of the Chairman of the Faculty with Dr Mallet as the Chairman on Canvassing and Dr Kent Chairman of a literary bureau, and they are requested to secure the cooperation of other members of the Faculty to aid them in their work, and the sum of $3000. is hereby appropriated for the said Committee, and the Chairman of the Committee is authorized to employ a permanent clerk for said Committee.

The other Committees appointed in June 1898 are continued, to wit A Committee to secure endowments and benefactions and the Committee on Alumni.

Resolved: That the Proctor be directed to place to the credit of the Anatomical Department the sum of $175.78 to meet the deficit of the year 1897-8. Resolved further, that the Proctor be instructed to credit the Anatomical Department for the year 1898-9 with the sum of $5. for each student enrolled in that department as a first year student and by $2.50 for each second or third year student who has failed on Anatomy.

Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors have heard with grateful appreciation the purposes of the family and executors of the late Alfred H. Byrd, of New York City, an honored alumnus of the University, to present the proceeds of the estate of Mr Byrd to the University for the endowment of the department of the Library devoted to Virginia History and Literature, and in transmitting their thanks for this contemplated gift desire to express their purpose to set aside an alcove in the Library for the reception of the Byrd donation.

Resolved: That the Committee of Benefactions and Endowments be authorized to enter into negotiations with the International Committee of the Y. M. C. A. and the Local Board of Trustees, looking to the practacability of the purchase by the Rector & Visitors of the Campus for the uses of the students of the University, and to report to the Board at their regular meeting in June.

Resolved: That the Proctor be authorized to pay to the account of Medical Biology the per capita of $5.00 for each student in Histology and $3.00 for each student in Bacteriology as provided by the action of the Board of June 12th 1893, until otherwise ordered. The appropriation of June 1898 of $350. for Histology is hereby repealed.

Resolved: That the recommendation of the Faculty in relation to the scheme for degrees in the Engineering Department be adopted.

Resolved: That the Chairman be authorized to insert in the next Catalogue that one half of all tuition fees be paid at the begining of the session and the other half the first week in January following.

Resolved: That Daniel Harmon and Dr P. B. Barringer, be appointed a Committee with authority to close up the matter of the water supply as between the University and the City of Charlottesville, on the basis of the report made by them to the present meeting of the Board, which report is in the following words and figures to-wit:

We respectfully submit the following as a minute of the proceedings of your Committee in regard to the water contract with the City of Charlottesville, Va.

A meeting of a joint Committee of Gas and Water, Finance Committee of the City Council, Prof. Barringer and D. Harmon representing the University of Virginia.

Present - C. D. Carter, Dr. H. T. Nelson, A. Wingfield, W. J. Tyson and M. Leterman, on the part of the city.

The question under consideration was the running expense of the Auxiliary Station, the University declining to pay one seventh of the running expense of said station. After a full and free discussion of the matter, the following resolution was adopted:

It is the sense of this Committee that a contract be prepared between the City of Charlottesville and the Rector and Visitors of the University that the expense of erecting the pumping plant be paid, six sevenths by the City and one seventh by the University, and that the expense of operating the plant be paid by the parties in the proportion that the water is is used by each while the pumping plant is in operation. The means by which it will be determined how much water will be used by each party is to be decided in further conference before the contract is executed. The said contract is to be subject to the ratification of the two contracting parties.

Respectfully, D. Harmon,

P. B. Barringer.

1\. Resolved: That the School of Modern Languages be reorganized by combining in one chair the studies of English and German under the style of "Teutonic Languages", and that the studies of French, Spanish and Italian be combined under the style of "Romance Languages".

2\. That Prof. James A. Harrison be professor of the chair or Teutonic Languages after the end of the present session and that a professor of Romance Languages be elected at the meeting of the Board in June next.

Resolved: That the recommendation in regard to the degree of Doctor of Philosophy, be adopted, which is as follows:

It is recommended by the Faculty that in the paragraph in the Catalogue defining candidacy for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy the following be substituted:

The Candidate for this degree must hold the degree of Bachelor of Arts, or other degree of like value, from this University or from some other College or University of good standing; or must exhibit to the Faculty by examination if necessary satisfactory evidences of having a collegiate education equivalent to that represented by the degree of Bachelor of Arts of a University or College of good standing. In the case that the applicant received his collegiate education at an institution other than this, the Faculty will pass, if necessary, upon the standing of the institution in question.

Resolved: That the recommendation of the Faculty in regard to the changes in the B. A. Course be adopted so that this degree be conferred upon a student who has completed nine B. A. Courses selected from the list at present prescribed of which at least one must be taken from each of the seven groups indicated, the other two being taken at will, provided that students who elect both Latin & Greek shall be required to complete but eight courses.

Resolved: That the School of General and Special Pathology (including Surgical diseases) and Clinical Diagnosis, be constituted and that the duties thereof be filled by Dr J. S. Davis and that the subject of Hygiene is hereby transferred to Dr W. A. Lambeth, who is authorized to teach the same. And further that Dr Davis is hereby relieved from duty as assistant to Prof. A. H. Tuttle in the Chair of Histology, but this resolution shall not go into effect until the commencement of next session.

Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia have learned with genuine pleasure that the beneficent intention of Col. John B. Cary to provide means for undenominational instruction in the English Bible at this University has been in part carried out by Col Cary's wife and children who have for this purpose generously donated to independent trustees the sum of ten thousand dollars.

Not insensible to this filial loyalty, cognizant of the esteem in which Col Cary was held, and deeply interested in the plan to do fitting honor to his memory, the Rector and Visitors desire to express to Mr T. A. Cary and through him to the family of Col Cary and to place on record:

First, their grateful recognition of this evidence of the interest manifested by Col Cary and his family in the welfare of the University and of the students here annually assembled.

Second, their deep sense of the present significance and far-reaching import of this movement to provide for nonsectarian Biblical instruction without in any wise connecting this work organically with the University or without soliciting from the University any financial support or official recognition.

Third, their hearty sympathy with the purposes and plans of this movement so long as it is kept, as it now is, totally free from all denominational bias and religious prejudicies.

Fourth, their sincere hope that the full sum of Twenty five Thousand dollars needed to endow permanently the John B. Cary Bible Lectureship may be speedily raised and the amount entrusted to parties so well known and so highly esteemed as to assure the application of the income to the true purposes of the foundation.

Resolved: That the Proctor be directed not to make, at this time, any contract for rent of the Elsom hotel to extend beyond July 1st next.

Resolved: That the report of the Alumni Committee created by the Board at its annual meeting in June last of which Col Thos H. Carter is chairman and Prof. R. C. Minor is Secretary be filed and the recommendations made with regard to Alumni Scholarships be put into effect, and to this end, be it further

Resolved: that a system of Alumni Scholarships be and the same is hereby created in accordance with the following scheme.

1\. The scholarships shall be known as the Alumni Scholarships.

2\. The incumbents shall be appointed by the local Alumni Associations now organized throughout the Country, and appearing in the Catalogue of 1898-99; and by such other local Associations as may hereafter be organized, and who, by consent of the Board of Visitors of the University, become entitled to the privilege. Provided, that no Association shall be entitled to make such appointment, except upon the terms and conditions hereafter mentioned.

3\. No incumbent shall hold such Scholarship for more than one year, but one who has passed satisfactory examinations at the University in one or more of his classes may be eligible for reappointment the following session upon the recommendation of the Faculty.

4\. These scholarships shall be confined to those classes in the Academic Departments of the University to which Virginia students are now admitted under the laws of Virginia, (that is, all Academic courses, save the course in Analytical Chemistry-). The scholarship shall entitle the incumbent to exemption from tuition and matriculation fees.

5\. Only such persons may be appointed as actually stand in need of such aid, and such as otherwise would not, in the judgment of the Association making the appointment, be able to attend the University.

6\. The incumbent must be at least eighteen years of age, and must be one who, in the judgment of the Association naming him, is studious, of good moral character, and prepared to enter the University.

7\. These provisions shall be applicable only to such Associations as are already organized and appear in the catalogue of the present session, and to such of these only as may have twenty or more active members who are entitled to vote on the appointment of an incumbent. But any local Association hereafter organized, having twenty or more such active members, may apply to the Board of Visitors, and upon obtaining the consent of the Board, shall be listed among those associations entitled to appoint incumbents to the scholarships hereby created.

8\. Every local Alumni Association, as above described, having twenty or more active members, shall be entitled annually to have one appointee at the University; if hereafter such Association ceases to have as many as twenty active members, it shall not be entitled to make an appointment until that number be restored.

9\. Every such local Association having fifty or more such active members shall be entitled to fill two such scholarships annually, so long as they shall continue to have as many as fifty such members, or as soon as they shall reach that number.

10\. But no Association shall be entitled to make such appointment for any session, except such as, through their Secretaries, shall have mailed to the General Secretary of the Alumni, at the University, on or before the first day of May preceding the session for which the appointment is to be made, a complete list of the active members of such Association, with their correct post-office addresses at that time, and the names of the officers of such Association. Provided, however, that for appointments to go into effect on the 15th of September, 1899, it will be sufficient if such list is mailed on or before the 1st day of July, 1899.

11\. By "active members", as herein used, is meant Alumni of the University, who have been admitted by the Association as active members thereof, in accordance with the rules laid down by the Association. No alumnus shall be entitled to vote upon this question in more than one Association during the same year, nor for this purpose shallan Alumnus be considered as an active member of more than one Association at the same time. But graduation in any Department or School of the University is not hereby required.

12\. Only one Association in any city or town shall be entitled to appoint incumbents to the scholarships hereby created.

13\. The final appointment of each incumbent shall be made by a vote of the whole Association, a majority of the active members thereof being present in person and voting of record for the applicant. It shall not finally be made by any Committees or by any officer or officers of the Association. But such Committee or officers may be appointed by the Association to nominate or examine Candidates, and to report to the Association.

14\. A copy of the minutes of the meeting which shall include the final result of the vote of the Association, the candidates who were voted for, with their post-office addresses, and the name of the successful candidate, the fact of his appointment, and the specific compliance with the conditions contained in sections 5, 6, 10 and 13, must be certified to the Chairman of the Faculty of the University, attested by the signatures of the presiding officer and Secretary of the Association making the appointment. This certificate must be in the hands of the Chairman of the Faculty on or before the 15th day of August preceding the opening of the session for which the incumbent is appointed. And the Chairman of the Faculty is hereby authorized to print forms of such certificate which may be sent to the officers of any Association desiring the same.

15\. The above requirements having been complied with, the person or persons so appointed shall be entitled to attend the University for one session without the payment of any matriculation or tuition fees, and shall enjoy the same privileges and be subject to the same restrictions as other Academic students.

16\. To guard against any possible ill feeling or sense of injustice on the part of the local Associations in respect to the constructions of these provisions, all such matters shall be referred to the executive Committee of the General Society of the Alumni, the decisions of which, when approved by the Faculty shall be final.

On motion the Board adjourned sine die.

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, called by the Rector and held in pursuance of notice, on the 2nd day of March, 1899.

Present.- Charles P. Jones, Rector, and Visitors, Daniel Harmon, Joseph Bryan, R. T. Irvine, A. B. Chandler, G. W. Miles, Carter Glass and Dr. M. Q. Holt, vice, W. B. McIlwaine, resigned. Dr. Holt having taken and subscribed to the oaths of office as Visitor, before Hon. John M. White, Judge of the County Court of Albemarle County, Va., on the date above, before entering upon the duties of his office, said oaths being taken and subscribed in vacation of said court.

Absent- H. H. Downing, Visitor.

Dr. Barringer, Chairman of the Faculty, submitted a report dated Feb. 27, 1899, with accompanying papers referred to in the same and the Proctor's report.

Plans and drawings for the Randall Dormitory building were submitted by various architects for the examination and consideration of the Visitors.

The report of the Chairman was read and the following was enacted

Resolved: That the Proctor is directed to take no action under the resolution passed by this Board March 18, 1898, authorizing him to make a certain payment to McKim, Mead & White out of the balance of the Fayerweather bequest when received, until further authorized thereto by this Board.

Ordered: That one-half of the salary of Professor Perkinson for the remainder of the session since his death be paid to his widow.

Resolved: That the drawings submitted by Mr. Paul J. Pelz of Washington, D. C., for the Randall dormitory be accepted by the Board and that the Building Committee be authorized to employ Mr. Pelz to supervise the construction of the same.

Be it further resolved that the Building Committee be directed and authorized to enter into a contract with a reliable builder to construct said Randall dormitory at a cost not to exceed $17000, and to take proper precautions for the faithful performance of the said contract.

Resolved: That the Board request the Faculty to designate certain of the members of its body to visit the various colleges of the State before the present school year closes, for the purpose of conferring with the faculties of these institutions with a view to correlating the work between them and the University, and to cultivate a mutual good will between the institutions of learning in this state and this University; and that on such a visit the member of the University faculty shall seek opportunity to address the student bodies of these institutions in regard to the work done at the University, especially in the Master of Arts Courses.

Resolved: That the Faculty be allowed to prepare and insert in the forthcoming catalogue of the University a scheme for a four years course in the Medical Dept.

Resolved: 1st. That the sum of $20,000 00, or so much thereof as may be necessary, be and is hereby appropriated to be devoted to the purpose of inaugurating a suitable hospital building and equipping the same at the University, said sum to be paid out of the first funds to be derived from the Fayerweather bequest.

Resolved: 2nd.- That the Chairman of the Faculty together with the Medical Faculty are authorized to provide plans for suitable buildings, not to exceed in cost the sum of $15,000.00 complete, to be presented to the Board at its June meeting, and to recommend a site for the same.

Resolved: That the action of the executive committee, through Daniel Harmon, its chairman, in securing Prof. M. W. Humphreys to teach the classes of the late Prof. Perkinson during the remainder of this session be, and it is hereby, ratified and approved, and the Board records its appreciation of the valuable and disinterested services of Prof. Humphreys in this matter.

Resolved: The Rector and Board of Visitors of the U. Va. desire to express their thanks to Mr. J. R. Cooledge, Jr. for the offer of designs for the new Dormitory building at this University and to say that they greatly regret that in the absence of Mr. Cooledge's plans, and the necessity for immediate decision they have been obliged to adopt the plans and specifications of another.

Resolved: That the sum of One hundred and Fifty Dollars be appropriated to pay for the services of Mr. Tilley for assisting Dr. Kent in his work.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at nine o'clock

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, called by the Rector and held in pursuance of notice, on the 2nd day of March, 1899.

Present.- Charles P. Jones, Rector, and Visitors, Daniel Harmon, Joseph Bryan, R. T. Irvine, A. B. Chandler, G. W. Miles, Carter Glass and Dr. M. Q. Holt, vice, W. B. McIlwaine, resigned. Dr. Holt having taken and subscribed to the oaths of office as Visitor, before Hon. John M. White, Judge of the County Court of Albemarle County, Va., on the date above, before entering upon the duties of his office, said oaths being taken and subscribed in vacation of said court.

Absent- H. H. Downing, Visitor.

Dr. Barringer, Chairman of the Faculty, submitted a report dated Feb. 27, 1899, with accompanying papers referred to in the same and the Proctor's report.

Plans and drawings for the Randall Dormitory building were submitted by various architects for the examination and consideration of the Visitors.

The report of the Chairman was read and the following was enacted

Resolved: That the Proctor is directed to take no action under the resolution passed by this Board March 18, 1898, authorizing him to make a certain payment to McKim, Mead & White out of the balance of the Fayerweather bequest when received, until further authorized thereto by this Board.

Ordered: That one-half of the salary of Professor Perkinson for the remainder of the session since his death be paid to his widow.

Resolved: That the drawings submitted by Mr. Paul J. Pelz of Washington, D. C., for the Randall dormitory be accepted by the Board and that the Building Committee be authorized to employ Mr. Pelz to supervise the construction of the same.

Be it further resolved that the Building Committee be directed and authorized to enter into a contract with a reliable builder to construct said Randall dormitory at a cost not to exceed $17000, and to take proper precautions for the faithful performance of the said contract.

Resolved: That the Board request the Faculty to designate certain of the members of its body to visit the various colleges of the State before the present school year closes, for the purpose of conferring with the faculties of these institutions with a view to correlating the work between them and the University, and to cultivate a mutual good will between the institutions of learning in this state and this University; and that on such a visit the member of the University faculty shall seek opportunity to address the student bodies of these institutions in regard to the work done at the University, especially in the Master of Arts Courses.

Resolved: That the Faculty be allowed to prepare and insert in the forthcoming catalogue of the University a scheme for a four years course in the Medical Dept.

Resolved: 1st. That the sum of $20,000 00, or so much thereof as may be necessary, be and is hereby appropriated to be devoted to the purpose of inaugurating a suitable hospital building and equipping the same at the University, said sum to be paid out of the first funds to be derived from the Fayerweather bequest.

Resolved: 2nd.- That the Chairman of the Faculty together with the Medical Faculty are authorized to provide plans for suitable buildings, not to exceed in cost the sum of $15,000.00 complete, to be presented to the Board at its June meeting, and to recommend a site for the same.

Resolved: That the action of the executive committee, through Daniel Harmon, its chairman, in securing Prof. M. W. Humphreys to teach the classes of the late Prof. Perkinson during the remainder of this session be, and it is hereby, ratified and approved, and the Board records its appreciation of the valuable and disinterested services of Prof. Humphreys in this matter.

Resolved: The Rector and Board of Visitors of the U. Va. desire to express their thanks to Mr. J. R. Cooledge, Jr. for the offer of designs for the new Dormitory building at this University and to say that they greatly regret that in the absence of Mr. Cooledge's plans, and the necessity for immediate decision they have been obliged to adopt the plans and specifications of another.

Resolved: That the sum of One hundred and Fifty Dollars be appropriated to pay for the services of Mr. Tilley for assisting Dr. Kent in his work.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at nine o'clock