Board of Visitors minutes (1899) March 28, 1899
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 28, 1899

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a special meeting of the Board called by the Rector to elect a successor to the late Prof. W. D. Dabney, and held in pursuance of notice on the 28th.. of March, 1899.

Present.- The Rector and Visitors Irvine, Glass, Downing, Miles, Harmon & Bryan & Dr. Holt. Absent.- Mr. Chandler, on account of sickness.

The Rector appointed the following committees

Library & Apparatus:- Messrs. Bryan, Miles & Holt.

Health, Infirmary, Sewage, etc.- Irvine, Chandler & Holt.

Miller Board.- Harmon, Glass & Holt.

The following resolutions were adopted:

Resolved:- That the building committee of the Randall dormitory be authorized and directed to enter into contract with Mess. John P. Pettyjohn & Son for the construction of said dormitory for the sum of $18650. complete according to the plans and specifications prepared and submitted this day by Mr. Pelz, architect,- the above sum includes additions and extras amounting to $1798.- and the said committee shall take security for the faithful performance of said contract.

The Board then proceeded to consider the applications and testimonials of the following persons for the chair of Law made vacant by the death of Prof. W. D. Dabney. The formal applications of Messrs. Roswell Page, of Richmond, and James P. Harrison, of Danville, and the names of Judge Jas. C. Lamb, of Richmond, Mr Martin P. Burks, of Bedford City, and Prof. Charles A. Graves, of Lexington, Va., were considered. A vote was taken on the election of a law professor, which resulted in a majority in favor of Prof. Graves, and on motion the vote was made unanimous in favor of Mr. Graves, the election to take effect at the commencement of the next session.

On motion Messrs. Irvine, Harmon & Downing were appointed a committee to confer with the law professors, including Prof. Graves, this day elected, with the view of arranging the subjects to be taught by the law professors, and report to the next meeting of the Board.

Resolved:- That the Library Committee of the Faculty be and is hereby authorized to receive from the New York Southern Society the "Garden Library" of Southern Americana for storage in the Library of the University of Virginia, and for use under the regular Library restrictions, said collection to be subject to recall at any time by the owners.

Resolved;- That Joseph Bryan be authorized to act as a committee of one on behalf of the Rector and Visitors to receive from the Executor of the late Alfred H. Byrd of New York City the proceeds of the estate of said Byrd and turn same over to the Proctor—;such proceeds to be invested and held as an endowment fund for the department of the Library of this University devoted to Virginia History and Letters.

Resolved:- That the bill of the Charlottesville Hardware Company of $160 00 dated Dec. 10, 1895, and rendered Feb. 23rd, 1899, be and the same is hereby referred to the Proctor for investigation and report to the next meeting of this Board.

Resolved: That the sum of $15000, or so much as may be necessary, is appropriated for the reception to the Alumni and friends of the University on the evening of the final exercises of the present session.

Resolved:- That the application of the Dawson Investment Company to take up its water pipe and relay it along the road behind the new buildings is hereby granted on the following conditions, to wit, Said pipe shall be put not less than 2 1/2 feet below the surface of the ground, and the roadbed properly repaired so as not to be injured by the work; said pipe shall be removed either wholly or to a different location whenever the Board of Visitors shall so require.

Resolved:- That this Board records with the sincerest regret the death of Prof. W. D. Dabney, late incumbent of the chair of Common and Statute Law in this University. We feel that we have lost each a personal friend, an estimable Christian gentleman, and the University has lost a thorough scholar and an earnest and conscientious teacher.

Resolved further - That a copy of these resolutions be communicated to the family of Prof. Dabney.

On motion the Board adjourned sine die.