Board of Visitors minutes (1903) July 28, 1903
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

July 28, 1903

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a Called Meeting of the Board of Visitors held at the University on July 28, 1903.

Present: The Rector & Visitors Irvine, Harmon, Moore, Downing, & Wallace.

The Board was called to order by the Rector & the following resolutions were adopted:

Resolved: that the two sons of the late Dr. W. B. Towles, Thomas & Oliver, be allowed to matriculate in the Academical Department of the University without the payment of the University fee of $40 00, during their Academic course, in recognition of the faithful & efficient services of their father while a professor in this University.

Resolved: That the request of Prof. James A. Harrison be granted, that W. H. Faulconer be appointed Adjunct Professor of Teutonic Languages for next session—;the compensation for his services so far as payable from the funds of the University to be $200.

It is ordered that Charles Mason Smith be allowed to enter the University as a student without paying any fees or charges, except that should he take any special ticket, outside of the Academic Course, to which Virginia students are entitled, he shall pay for the same. This order is based on the special reasons presented to the Board.

The Secretary of the Board of Visitors of the University is directed to express to the teachers who have been attending the Summer School, the Board's very thorough appreciation of the resolutions presented by Mr Willis A. Jenkins. The Board doubts not that the generous approval thus indicated of the benefits resulting from the School will facilitate & widen its work in the future & serve to strengthen the ties that connect the public school system of the State with this institution.

In order to carry out the purpose of the Board, the Sec- retary will communicate a copy of this minute to Mr. Jenkins.

Resolved: That Lewis L. Holladay be, and he is hereby, named as Adjunct Professor of Applied Mathematics under the resolution of the Board at its last annual meeting at a salary of $1500 00.

Resolved: That the request of Prof W. H. Echols for an appropriation of Thirty Dollars ($30 00) to be expended in the purchase of the necessary duplicating machines & material for printing examination papers &c., be and the same is hereby granted, & the appropriation ordered.

Resolved; owing to the unavoidable absence of several members of the Board, that the election of a President be postponed to an adjourned meeting, the date of which meeting shall be fixed by the Rector and that when the Board adjourns, it adjourn to meet on such date

On motion, the Board adjourned.