Board of Visitors minutes (1907) March 15, 1907
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 15, 1907

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a called meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, held in the President's office, Friday, March 15, 1907,

Present: Visitors White, Harmon, Craddock, Flood, Moore, and President Alderman,

Absent: The Rector, and Visitors Buchanan, Norton, Hunton, and Eggleston,

The meeting was called to order at 2:30 p. m., by Hon. Daniel Harmon, acting Rector, and the following resolutions were adopted,-

It appearing that notice having been given, as required by statute, of the purpose of the Board to elect a Professor of General Surgery and Director of the University Hospital:

Now therefore, Dr. Stephen H. Watts having received the votes of the members of the Board present, is declared elected to the chair of General Surgery and Director of the University Hospital, at a salary of $3,000 per annum, to enter upon his duties, September 12th, 1907.

It appearing that notice having been given, as required by statute, of the purpose of the Board to elect a Professor of Economic Geology: Now therefore, Dr. Thomas Leonard Watson having received the votes of the members of the Board present, is declared elected to the chair of Economic Geology, at a salary of $2,800, per annum, to enter upon his duties, September 12th, 1907.

It appearing that notice having been given as required by statute, of the purpose of the Board to elect a Collegiate Professor of Chemistry: Now therefore, Dr. Robert Montgomery Bird having received the votes of the members of the Board present, is declared elected Collegiate Professor of Chemistry, and made Director of the Laboratory for Undergraduate Instruction in Chemistry, at a salary of $2,500 per annum, to enter upon his duties September 12th, 1907.

Resolved: That Dr. Arthur E. Austin be appointed an Adjunct Professor of Physiological Chemistry, for the remainder of the present session, at a salary of $1,000.

The resignation of Dr. Francis Henry Smith as Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Virginia, (to take effect, June 12th, 1907) has been received by the Board of Visitors with sincere regret.

The Board of Visitors desires to place on record its appreciation of the character, the devotion, the genius, and the attainments of Professor Smith, as they have been exemplified in his continuous service to the University of Virginia for fifty-seven years. Succeeding William B. Rogers as Professor of Natural Philosophy, he has so conducted that school for a half century, that its fame and its reputation throughout the country, has been placed upon an enduring basis.

The Board desires too, to bear testimony to the strength given to this University through the character and life of Professor Smith. Thousands of young men, throughout this nation, have had their ideals advanced, and their conception of life elevated and dignified, by contact with his personality.

The Board of Visitors wish for him the pleasure and freedom that comes of duty nobly done, and they desire the privilege of retaining him as Emeritus Professor of Natural Philosophy upon the rolls of the University.

Resolved: That, the correspondence between Professor Smith and President Alderman in reference to Professor Smith's resignation is directed to be recorded in the minutes along with this resolution.

I respectfully resign my office as Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Virginia; the resignation to take effect at the close of the present session.

Will you kindlytransmit the accompanying open letter to the Rector at the next meeting of the Board of Visitors?

This action on my part has been long contemplated. The hour seems to me plainly to have come when I ought to resign to younger and abler hands, the duties of my office.

I lay down my work with a heart full of gratitude for the kindness and forbearance of a long line of distinguished men, visitors, professors, and students, with whom it has been my honor and my good fortune to be associated. Among these happy years, I count those not least which I have spent under your presidency. I cannot say all that I feel, but I retire from the University in the hearty faith that her best days are to come.

I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 3rd inst., conveying to the Rector of the University, the Honorable Armistead C. Gordon, and to myself, your resignation of the professorship of Natural Philosophy in the University of Virginia.

It is difficult for me to tell you how sincerely I regret that you have reached this conclusion. I am aware, as a mere matter of fact, that you have reached an age when earnest men have earned rest and freedom from constant toil. But you will permit me to say that I cannot see that age has touched you at all, in spirit, in method, in point of view, and in capacity of real work, and it would give me profound satisfaction if you could feel that it was best for you to go on with the work which you have carried forward so splendidly for fifty-seven years, and which you are doing to-day with the vigor and enthusiasm of youth.

I count it one of the privileges of my life, as a college president, to have been associated with you; to have known something of your fairmindedness and just spirit, of your scholarly ideals, and of your gentleness mingled with strength, which marks everywhere the complete man.

The news of your resignation will touch the hearts of thousands of men throughout the country, who have felt the inspiration of your teaching; but they will, I believe, have a certain pride in the knowledge that you claim your rest in the full strength of unimpaired power. It is a rare thing that a chair in an American University, existing over a period of eighty-two years, should have been guided for seventy-two years entirely by two men, and by two such men as William B. Rogers and Francis H. Smith. This fact, with other obvious considerations, will make the task of filling the place made vacant by your resignation, one of the severest difficulty. I shall claim the privilege of leaning heavily upon you for guidance and counsel in this large responsibility.

I know that your great zeal will cause you to continue work in the higher reaches of your science, and I want you to know that the University will feel itself honored if you will think of its laboratories, especially your own laboratory, as open to you at all times, for the prosecution of any work you may have on hand, and you must not fancy that I shall spare you in seeking often to have you speak to our students and to our faculty for their good. It is assumed, of course, that you will not lay down your work here until after the close of the session 1906-1907.

I thank you for your kind expression of confidence in me. Such an expression gives me courage and hope for the task I have to perform.

Wishing for your green old age the pleasure of the scholar, and the satisfaction of an unselfish life, I have the honor to remain, with great respect and esteem,

Resolved: That the fund of twenty thousand dollars, ($20,000.) so generously given by Mrs. Thomas Nelson Page, be styled the "Barbour-Page Lecture Fund," and that the thanks of this Board be conveyed to the generous donor.

Resolved: That the Board of Visitors accept with gratitude the gift of one thousand dollars ($1,000.), from Richard B. Tunstall, for the establishment of the "Isabel M. Tunstall Memorial Library," and that the thanks of the Board be conveyed to the generous donor.

Resolved: That the thanks of the Board of Visitors be conveyed to Mr. Andrew Carnegie, for his generous gift of the Organ recently installed in the auditorium of Cabell Hall; and that the sum of $375.00 be appropriated for expenses incurred in the installation of the organ.

Resolved: That the Board of Visitors acknowledge with gratitude, the generous donation of $2,500. by the General Education Board of New York City to the Summer School of the University; and that the thanks of the Board be conveyed to the General Education Board.

Resolved: That the following resolution of the Building Committee of the Board of Visitors, passed at their meeting on March 4th, 1907, be and the same is hereby approved:

"Resolved, that the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds be authorized to close a contract for the erection of the Dining Hall;—;and to invite bids for the President's House, reserving the right to reject all bids—;such bids when received, to be reported to a called meeting of this Committee."

Resolved: That the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings be authorized to proceed with the erection of the Dining Hall, and to that end, to make the necessary contracts, and the Bursar is directed to make the necessary disbursements on the order of the Superintendent.

The Finance Committee is authorized to dispose of the Bonds in the hands of the Virginia Trust Company, which constituted the Sinking Fund for the former bond issue, which was refunded, and the amount realized from that source is hereby appropriated to the Building fund.

Resolved, further,—;It is the opinion of this Board that the President's house shall be proceeded with as soon as practicable, and the Building Committee are requested to proceed to get bids and make contracts for the same.

Resolved: That the sum of three hundred dollars be appropriated out of the current funds of the University, to defray the expenses incident to the establishment of night service in the University Library, for the residue of the session.

Resolved: That the annual appropriation heretofore made by this Board to the University of Virginia Summer School of $1,200.00 be increased to $1,500.00

Resolved: That in addition to the amount heretofore appropriated by this Board for the purpose of making a proper exhibit at the Jamestown Exposition, there be appropriated the further sum of one thousand five hundred ($1,500 00) dollars (only 100000)

Resolved: That all claims for the return of tuition and other fees of students, be referred to a special committee of this Board, composed of Mr. Harmon, the President and the Dean of the University, with full power to act.

Resolved: That Pavilion No. VII West Lawn, be rented to the Faculty Club of the University, at an annual rental of $150.00, and that the University put the buildings in such repair as to make it available for the purposes of the Club.

Resolved: That the Finance Committee is authorized by unanimous vote to direct and bring about the investment in such securities as may be considered safe, a fund of about $10,000.00 now on deposit in the Charlottesville bank.

Resolved: That Mr. Wm. H. White is requested to represent the Board as its attorney in the suit now pending, or any suit that may hereafter be filed involving the construction of the will of the late Edward W. James, so far as the litigation may affect the interests of the University, with power to employ associate counsel in the Richmond suit.

On motion the Board adjourned.

I respectfully resign my office as Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Virginia; the resignation to take effect at the close of the present session.

Will you kindlytransmit the accompanying open letter to the Rector at the next meeting of the Board of Visitors?

This action on my part has been long contemplated. The hour seems to me plainly to have come when I ought to resign to younger and abler hands, the duties of my office.

I lay down my work with a heart full of gratitude for the kindness and forbearance of a long line of distinguished men, visitors, professors, and students, with whom it has been my honor and my good fortune to be associated. Among these happy years, I count those not least which I have spent under your presidency. I cannot say all that I feel, but I retire from the University in the hearty faith that her best days are to come.

I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 3rd inst., conveying to the Rector of the University, the Honorable Armistead C. Gordon, and to myself, your resignation of the professorship of Natural Philosophy in the University of Virginia.

It is difficult for me to tell you how sincerely I regret that you have reached this conclusion. I am aware, as a mere matter of fact, that you have reached an age when earnest men have earned rest and freedom from constant toil. But you will permit me to say that I cannot see that age has touched you at all, in spirit, in method, in point of view, and in capacity of real work, and it would give me profound satisfaction if you could feel that it was best for you to go on with the work which you have carried forward so splendidly for fifty-seven years, and which you are doing to-day with the vigor and enthusiasm of youth.

I count it one of the privileges of my life, as a college president, to have been associated with you; to have known something of your fairmindedness and just spirit, of your scholarly ideals, and of your gentleness mingled with strength, which marks everywhere the complete man.

The news of your resignation will touch the hearts of thousands of men throughout the country, who have felt the inspiration of your teaching; but they will, I believe, have a certain pride in the knowledge that you claim your rest in the full strength of unimpaired power. It is a rare thing that a chair in an American University, existing over a period of eighty-two years, should have been guided for seventy-two years entirely by two men, and by two such men as William B. Rogers and Francis H. Smith. This fact, with other obvious considerations, will make the task of filling the place made vacant by your resignation, one of the severest difficulty. I shall claim the privilege of leaning heavily upon you for guidance and counsel in this large responsibility.

I know that your great zeal will cause you to continue work in the higher reaches of your science, and I want you to know that the University will feel itself honored if you will think of its laboratories, especially your own laboratory, as open to you at all times, for the prosecution of any work you may have on hand, and you must not fancy that I shall spare you in seeking often to have you speak to our students and to our faculty for their good. It is assumed, of course, that you will not lay down your work here until after the close of the session 1906-1907.

I thank you for your kind expression of confidence in me. Such an expression gives me courage and hope for the task I have to perform.

Wishing for your green old age the pleasure of the scholar, and the satisfaction of an unselfish life, I have the honor to remain, with great respect and esteem,

Estimated Resources, available for Current Expenses, for Session 1907-'8.I. Instruction:- (a) Professors and Adjunct Professors in Academic and Engineering Dep'ts. II. Administration:- (a) Salaries of Officers and Assistants,- III. Fellowships and Scholarships,- VI. Commutation of Rents: VII. Interest, Sinking Fund & Insurance,- Condensed Statement of the foregoing Estimate and Appropriations, for Session 1907-1908.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Balance Surplus from 1906-1907,

$ 2,000 00

From Annuity, State Appropriations,

75,000 00

From Corcoran Endowment,

6,000 00

From Miller Endowment,

6,000 00

From Linden Kent Endowment,

3,048 00

From Observatory Endowment,

4,345 00

From Curry Memorial Endowment,

4,950 00

From Thos. Jefferson Endowment, (Jos. Bryan, Treas.)

5,000 00

From Library Endowment, (Madison & Gordon)

456 00

From Library Endowment, (Alfred Henry Byrd)

460 00

From Library Endowment, (D'Arcy Paul)

32 00

From Fellowship and Scholarship Endowments, (Jno. Y. Mason)

210 00

From (Valentine Birely)

200 00

From (J. Thompson Brown)

90 00

From (H. C. Cabell)

72 00

From John W. Scott Memorial Endowment,

200 00

From Charles R. Crane Donation,

250 00

From G. F. & C. J. Peabody Donation,

550 00

From James C. Carter Donation,

300 00

From General Education Board Donation,

3,000 00

From Peter W. Rouss Donation,

3,000 00

From Wm. A. Clark, Jr. Donation,

500 00

From Austin Estate Trustees, (Estimated)

8,000 00

From Interest on Bank Balances, (Estimated)

850 00

From Rents, from Residents on Grounds

1,500 00

From Lights, from Residents on Grounds

750 00

From Steam Heat, from Residents on Grounds

150 00

From Students, on Time Notes and Deferred Payments on Tuition

1,250 00

From Students, Fees, Tuition, Rents, Lights, etc. (825 &commat; $93.50 per cap.)

77,137 00

Total Estimated Resources,

$205,300 00

Edwin A. Alderman,

President of the University,

5,000 00

William M. Fontaine,

Professor Nat. Hist. & Geol.

3,000 00

Ormond Stone,

Professor of Astronomy,

3,000 00

Francis P. Dunnington,

Professor Analytical Chem.

3,000 00

John W. Mallet,

Professor of Chemistry,

3,000 00

Milton W. Humphreys,

Professor of Greek,

3,000 00

James A. Harrison,

Professor Teutonic Languages

3,000 00

Richard H. Wilson,

Professor Romanic Languages

3,000 00

Thomas Fitz-Hugh,

Professor of Latin,

3,000 00

William H. Echols,

Professor of Mathematics

3,000 00

James Morris Page,

Professor of Mathematics

3,000 00

Charles W. Kent,

Professor English Literature,

3,000 00

Richard H. Dabney,

Professor of History,

3,000 00

Albert H. Tuttle,

Professor of Biol. & Agric.

3,000 00

Albert Lefevre,

Professor of Philosophy,

3,000 00

Bruce R. Payne,

Prof. Secondary Education,

2,750 00

William H. Heck,

Prof. of Education,

2,500 00

Thomas W. Page,

Prof. Political Economy,

3,000 00

Thomas S. Watson,

Prof. Economic Geology,

2,800 00

Robert M. Bird,

Collegiate Prof. of Chem.

2,500 00

Wm. H. Faulkner,

Adj.-Prof. Teutonic Lang.

600 00

Llewellyn G. Hoxton,

Adj.-Prof. Nat. Philosophy

1,500 00

Adj.-Prof. Nat. Philosophy

1,200 00

E. Preston Dargan,

Adj.-Prof. Romanic Lang.

1,000 00

Wm. M. Thornton,

Prof. Applied Mathematics

3,000 00

L. L. Holladay,

Adj.-Prof. Applied Mathematics

1,500 00

C. M. McKergow,

Adj.-Prof. Mech. Eng'r.

1,500 00

J. L. Newcomb,

Adj.-Prof. Civil Eng'r.

1,500 00

72,350 00

(b.) Instructors, Assistants, and Fellows in Academic and Engineering Dep'ts.

Albert S. Bolling,

Instructor in Latin,

600 00

Weldon T. Myers,

Instructor in Latin,

400 00

J. S. McLemore,

Instructor in Latin,

300 00

Otis B. Sears, (H M )

Instructor in Greek,

450 00

Wm. B. Stone,

Instructor in Math.

300 00

J. N. Michie,

Instructor in Math.

300 00

T. McN. Simpson,

Instructor in Math.

300 00

John J. Luck,

Instructor in Math. (spl.)

90 00

W Leipsner,

Instructor Collegiate Chem.

1,000 00

T. D. Sloan,

Instructor Analytical Chem.

500 00

W. W. S. Butler,

Instructor Natural Philos.

420 00

Forward,

$ 77,010 00

Brought forward,

77,010 00

S. Reeves

Instructor in Nat. Philos.

300 00

J. Puryear

Instructor in Nat. Philos.

100 00

(1)

Instructor in Philosophy

300 00

(1)

Instructor in Philosophy

450 00

J. W. Wayland,

Instructor in History,

500 00

J. C. Hipp,

Instructor in Economics,

300 00

W. A. Kepner,

Instructor in Biology,

900 00

(1)

in English Literature

300 00

(1)

in English Literature

300 00

(1)

in English Literature

300 00

(1) M. H. Arnold,

in English Literature

300 00

(1)

Ass't. Inst. in English Literature

200 00

(1)

Instructor in Journalism,

500 00

?

81,760 00

(1) J. M. Gallalee,

Ass't. Inst. in Engineering,

200 00

(1) G. F. R. Jackson,

Ass't. Inst. in Engineering,

200 00

(1)

Instructor in Engineering,

700 00

(1)

Instructor in Engineering,

700 00

(1)

Instructor in Geology,

500 00

H. H. Lannigan,

Associate Director of Athletics,

300 00

(1)

Instructor in Physical Culture,

100 00

(1) Chas. W. Paul, 900

Instructor in Public Speaking

800 00

85,260 00

(c) Professors in Department of Law -

William M. Lile,

Prof. Law. of Persons, etc.

1,500 00

Charles A. Graves,

Prof. Law. of Contracts, etc.

3,000 00

Raleigh C. Minor,

Prof. Law. of Real Property, etc.

3,000 00

Armistead M. Dobie,

1,500 00

C. M. Chichester,

Instructor in Law,

750 00

A. S. Robertson,

Instructor in Law,

750 00

95,760 00

(d) Professors, Adjunct Professors, and Instructors in Department of Medicine,-

Paul B. Barringer,

Prof. Therapeutics & Pharm.

3,000 00

John Staige Davis,

Prof. Prac. of Med. & Pediatrics

3,000 00

Wm. A. Lambeth,

Prof. of Hygiene,

2,500 00

Richard H. Whitehead,

Prof. of Anatomy,

3,000 00

Charles H. Bunting,

Prof. of Pathology, etc.

3,000 00

Theodore Hough,

Prof. of Physiology,

3,000 00

W. D. Macon,

Prof. of Obstetrics,

1,000 00

S. H. Watts,

Prof. of Surgery,

3,000 00

Adj.-Prof. of Surgery,

1,250 00

J. C. Flippin,

Adj.-Prof. of Clinical Medicine

1,500 00

120,010 00

C. M. Byrnes,

Adj.-Prof. of Anatomy,

1,100 00

H. E. Jordan,

Adj.-Prof. Anat. Histol. & Emb.

1,250 00

BB Brown C. R. Meloy,

Instructor in Pathology

1,000 00

J. A. Norford,

Instructor in Anatomy,

400 00

(1)

Instructor in Physiology,

600 00

124,360 00

Forward,

124,360 00

124,360 00

124,360 00

124,360 00

I. K. Moran,

Bursar,

1,500 00

R. Marshall Price,

Secretary

1,100 00

Howard Winston,

Registrar,

850 00

James M. Page,

Dean,

300 00

Richard H. Whitehead,

Dean of Med. Faculty

250 00

William A. Lambeth,

Sup't. Buildings & Grounds,

750 00

John S. Patton,

Librarian,

1,200 00

Anna S. Tuttle,

Assistant Librarian,

530 00

John W. Wayland,

Assistant in Library,

100 00

James G. Johnson,

Assistant in Library,

200 00

Virginia E. Moran,

Assistant to Bursar,

300 00

Samuel B. Woods,

Commissioner of Accounts,

150 00

Secretary,

Board of Visitors,

100 00

Messenger,

For Secretary's Office,

240 00

Stenographer,

For Executive Offices,

660 00

8230 00

132590 00

(b) Wages of Employèes, Janitors, and Laborers,-

1 Chief Mechanic

1,000 00

1 Engineer for Lighting Plant,

600 00

1 Engineer for Heating Plant, (9 months)

495 00

1 Fireman for Heating Plant, (9 months)

405 00

1 Night Police and Watchman,

420 00

1 Foreman of Labor,

540 00

8 Laborers on Grounds,

&commat; 25$ per month

2,400 00

2 Janitors, Library & Rotunda,

&commat; 25$ per month

600 00

1 Janitor, Dissecting Hall,

&commat; 25$ per month

300 00

1 Janitor, Museum,

&commat; 15$ per month

180 00

1 Janitor, Mechanical Lab'y, &c.

&commat; 20$ per month

240 00

1 Janitor, Dispensary,

&commat; 8$ per month

96 00

1 Janitor, Administration B'ld'g.

&commat; 7$ per month

84 00

2 Janitor, -s, General, on Grounds & Buildings,

&commat; 18$

432 00

1 Janitor, Chemical Laboratory,

&commat; 15$ for 9 months

135 00

1 Janitor, Medical Hall,

&commat; 15$ for 9 months

135 00

1 Janitor, Physical Laboratory,

&commat; 15$ for 9 months

135 00

1 Janitor, Academic Building,

&commat; 15$ for 9 months

135 00

1 Janitor, Randall Building,

&commat; 15$ for 9 months

135 00

1 Janitor, Randall Building,

&commat; 20$ for 9 months

180 00

1 Janitor, Alumni Hall, (Dr.Green)

&commat; 3$ for 9 months

27 00

1 Janitor, New Chemical Laboratory;

&commat; 25$ for 9 months

225 00

1 Janitor, Gymnasium,

&commat; 25$ for 9 months

225 00

1 Janitor, Geological Laboratory,

&commat; 25$ for 9 months

225 00

1 Janitor, -s, Students' Dormitories,

&commat; 15$ for 9 months

1,890 00

11,239 00

Forward,

143,829 00

143,829 00

3 Vanderbilt, (Observatory), &commat; 350$

1,050 00

1 John Y. Mason, (J. J. Luck) &commat;

210 00

1 Wm. C. Rives, (Hist. & Econ.) J. W. Wayland,

&commat;

200 00

1 Board of Visitors, (Eng. Lit.) M H Arnold

&commat;

200 00

1 Board of Visitors, (Teut. Lang.) W. H

&commat;

200 00

1 Board of Visitors, (Rom. Lang.) E P gan

&commat;

200 00

3 Miller Board Scholarships, &commat; 250$

750 00

1 J. Thompson Brown, Scholarship, C S

&commat;

90 00

1 Valentine Birely, Scholarship, U S R

&commat;

210 00

1 Henry Coalter Cabell Scholarship, I R wpp

&commat;

72 00

High Schools,

&commat;

100 00

3282 00

147,111 00

IV. Laboratories, Libraries, Advertising, Catalogue, etc.

Anatomical Laboratory,

750 00

Astronomical Laboratory, (McCormick Observatory)

405 00

Biological Laboratory,

450 00

Chemical Laboratory, (General and Analytical)

450 00

Chemical Laboratory, (Physiological

Chemical Laboratory, (Collegiate)

Bacteriology & Pathological Laboratory,

600 00

Histological Laboratory,

350 00

Physical Laboratory,

1,000 00

Mechanical Laboratory, (Eng'r. Dep't.)

500 00

Geol. & Zool. Laboratory, (Brooks Museum)

xx xx

Dispensary,

200 00

Gymnasium, (Equipment, etc.)

450 00

Hospital, (operating)

6,500 00

158,766 00

Library, (Law Dep't.)

1,300 00

Library, (from 4 Endowment Funds)

948 00

Library, -general- (special app. for Development)

1,500 00

Library, School of Economics-(special app. for Development)

150 00

Library, Linden Kent School- (special app. for Development)

48 00

Advertising,

3,000 00

Alumni Bulletin,

1,200 00

Catalogue,

1,500 00

21301 00

168,412 00

V. Fuel & Lights—;Repairs & Improvements:-

Fuel for Heating & Lighting,

3,500 00

Electric Lighting Department, (Supplies, etc.)

500 00

Gas, for special Lighting & Laboratory Work,

600 00

Repairs,

5,000 00

Improvements,

2,500 00

Special Improvements,-(1) Laboratory in Geol. (Equip't.)

3,000 00

(2) Anatomical Laboratory(Equip't.)

145 00

(3) Interior of Chapel-

275 00

16,620 00

Forward,

183,932 00

183,932 00

183,932 00

183,932 00

President,

1,200 00

Prof. N. K. Davis, (special)

400 00

Dr. Barringer,

300 00

Dr. Whitehead,

300 00

Dr. Davis,

300 00

Prof. Dabney,

300 00

Prof. Dunnington,

300 00

Prof. Fontaine,

300 00

Prof. Humphreys,

300 00

Prof. Page,

300 00

Prof. Wilson,

300 00

4,300 00

188,232 00

Dr Bag

$ 300 00

Interest on Bonded Debt,

8,000 00

Sinking Fund for Bonded Debt,

2,000 00

Insurance Renewals,

635 00

10,635 00

198,867 00

VIII. Miscellaneous:-

Contingent Fund,

3,500 00

Diplomas,

200 00

Printing,

400 00

Reception to Graduates at Finals

150 00

Alumni Entertainment at Finals

150 00

Literary Societies,

100 00

Development School of Education (Trav. Exp. Prof. Payne)

500 00

Barbour-Page Lecture Fund,

320 00

Legal Counsel, (Special Retainer)

100 00

Reservoir and Water Line,

330 00

Madison Hall, (for heating and lighting)

200 00

Organist,

300 00

Summer School, (Summer 1907)

1,500 00

Literary Society - (B. of V. Debater's Medal)-

50 00

Temporary Subsidy to Dining Hall,

600 00

8,400 00

207,267 00

207,267 00

Forward

$207,267 00

207,267 00

Brought forward,

$207,267 00

207,267 00

Total Estimated Expenditures,

207,267 00

Total Estimated Resources,

205,300 00

Balance Estimated Deficit,

$ 1,967 00

Resources

Balance Surplus 1906-'7, (Deficit $341 72)

2,000 00

Annuity from State,

75,000 00

Interest on Endowments, etc.,

33,013 00

Austin Estate,

8,000 00

P. W. Rouss Donation,

3,000 00

W. A. Clark Donation,

500 00

General Education Board,

3,000 00

Rents, Heating, Lights, etc.

2,400 00

Students' Notes,

1,250 00

Students' Fees, 825 &commat; $93.50

77,137 00

205,300 00

Expenditures.

I. Instruction,

800 00

123,560 00

II. Administration, (&commat;) Salaries of Officers,

8,230 00

(b) Wages of Employees, Janitors & Laborers

11,239 00

III. Fellowships & Scholarships,

3,282 00

IV. Laboratories, Libraries, Advertising, Catalogue, &c.

21,301 00

V. Fuel, Lights, Repairs, and Improvements,

15,520 00

VI. Commutation of Rents,

4,300 00

VII. Interest, Sinking Fund, Insurance,

10,635 00

VIII. Miscellaneous,

8,400 00

207,267 00

Balance Deficit,

$ 1,967 00

Balance deficit as above

$ 1,967 00

salau additional added at meetings

3,004 00

Special improvements

2,550 00

Insurance on new Buildings

750 00

Balance estimated surplus 1906-7 - unrealized -

2,000 00

Balance real deficit for 1906-7 - Bu Report

341 72

Students fees (difference an account of 825)

4,207 50

20 22

Dr Barringer's Salary off

3,000 00

11,820 22

\[President's "Financial Budget", referred to on Page 212.\]

Estimated Expenditures.

I respectfully resign my office as Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Virginia; the resignation to take effect at the close of the present session.

Will you kindlytransmit the accompanying open letter to the Rector at the next meeting of the Board of Visitors?

This action on my part has been long contemplated. The hour seems to me plainly to have come when I ought to resign to younger and abler hands, the duties of my office.

I lay down my work with a heart full of gratitude for the kindness and forbearance of a long line of distinguished men, visitors, professors, and students, with whom it has been my honor and my good fortune to be associated. Among these happy years, I count those not least which I have spent under your presidency. I cannot say all that I feel, but I retire from the University in the hearty faith that her best days are to come.

I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 3rd inst., conveying to the Rector of the University, the Honorable Armistead C. Gordon, and to myself, your resignation of the professorship of Natural Philosophy in the University of Virginia.

It is difficult for me to tell you how sincerely I regret that you have reached this conclusion. I am aware, as a mere matter of fact, that you have reached an age when earnest men have earned rest and freedom from constant toil. But you will permit me to say that I cannot see that age has touched you at all, in spirit, in method, in point of view, and in capacity of real work, and it would give me profound satisfaction if you could feel that it was best for you to go on with the work which you have carried forward so splendidly for fifty-seven years, and which you are doing to-day with the vigor and enthusiasm of youth.

I count it one of the privileges of my life, as a college president, to have been associated with you; to have known something of your fairmindedness and just spirit, of your scholarly ideals, and of your gentleness mingled with strength, which marks everywhere the complete man.

The news of your resignation will touch the hearts of thousands of men throughout the country, who have felt the inspiration of your teaching; but they will, I believe, have a certain pride in the knowledge that you claim your rest in the full strength of unimpaired power. It is a rare thing that a chair in an American University, existing over a period of eighty-two years, should have been guided for seventy-two years entirely by two men, and by two such men as William B. Rogers and Francis H. Smith. This fact, with other obvious considerations, will make the task of filling the place made vacant by your resignation, one of the severest difficulty. I shall claim the privilege of leaning heavily upon you for guidance and counsel in this large responsibility.

I know that your great zeal will cause you to continue work in the higher reaches of your science, and I want you to know that the University will feel itself honored if you will think of its laboratories, especially your own laboratory, as open to you at all times, for the prosecution of any work you may have on hand, and you must not fancy that I shall spare you in seeking often to have you speak to our students and to our faculty for their good. It is assumed, of course, that you will not lay down your work here until after the close of the session 1906-1907.

I thank you for your kind expression of confidence in me. Such an expression gives me courage and hope for the task I have to perform.

Wishing for your green old age the pleasure of the scholar, and the satisfaction of an unselfish life, I have the honor to remain, with great respect and esteem,