Board of Visitors minutes (1911) May 30, 1911
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 30, 1911

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a called meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia on above date in the Presidents' Office.

Present: The Rector, Visitors White, Shackleford, Harmon, Drewry, and President Alderman,

The Board having been called to order at 10:00 by the Rector, the following was adopted:-

Resolved: That George Boardman Eager, Jr., be elected Adjunct Professor of Law in the Department of Law of the University of Virginia, at a salary of $1,500, his duties to begin on the 12th of September 1911.

Resolved: That President Alderman be empowered to make such arrangements as may be necessary for the other appointments needful for the carrying forward of the University work during the summer months, subject to the ratification of the Board at their fall meeting in October.

Resolved: That the McCormick Scholarship be awarded to Mr. Lant Rader Slaven for the session of 1911-1912.

In pursuance of a resolution of November 18th, 1910, the committee appointed to consider a communication from Mr. R. Hall McCormick, submitted the following report, which was adopted, and ordered spread upon the record,—;

To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia:

Your Committee, to whom was referred the correspondence with R. Hall McCormick, Esq., Trustee of the Estate of Leander J. McCormick, making certain suggestions as to the proper scope of the work of the Professor of Astronomy and Director of the Leander McCormick Observatory, beg leave to report.

Mr. McCormick, in his letter of June 11, 1911, addressed to the President, summarizes his conclusions as follows:

"First, that the donor of the telescope and observatory made his gifts for the purpose of their being used along lines of scientific astronomical research, which is the only lines along which they can be used.

"Second, that it was the intention of the Alumni who made the endowment to provide the observatory with a trained astronomer, all of whose time should be devoted to the use of the telescope."

An analysis of these conclusions leads to the result that as the whole time of the professor should be devoted to the use of the telescope and the telescope should be used only along lines of scientific astronomical research, the whole time of the professor should be devoted to research work. This would exclude not only all teaching in Theoretical Astronomy, but also a part of the teaching in practical astronomy.

The memorial presented to the Rector and Visitors by the Society of Alumni on June 29, 1881, turning over the funds collected for the endowment of the Professorship and Working Fund of the Leander McCormick Observatory, contains the following: "Another condition is imposed upon the gift in accordance with the earnest desire of Mr. McCormick to promote active astronomical work by his foundation, and that is that the Directors of the Observatory, (Professor of Astronomy) shall have no teaching to do except in practical or theoretical astronomy."

The action of the Board of Visitors is shown by the following resolution adopted by them at a meeting held March 30, 1881:

"That a new \`School' shall be established at the University to be known as \`The School of Astronomy,' which shall be opened as soon as the buildings shall be in a suitable state. The salary of the Professor shall be the same as those of other \`Schools' and he shall teach theoretical and practical astronomy and no other subject. He shall be Director of the McCormick Observatory, and shall devote his time, when not occupied with instruction of classes, to astronomical investigations and practical use of the observatory for systematic exploration and work."

It thus appears that the work of teaching is the primary duty of the Professor, and he is to devote his time to astronomical investigation only when not occupied with instruction of classes. The University is primarily an educational institution and this is recognized by Mr. McCormick in his letter of June 5, 1882, acknowledging notification of the election of his nominee, Professor Stone. We quote as follows:

"And I feel confident that with Professor Stone in the Chair of Astronomy and in charge of the Observatory, the educational interests of the State will be greatly advanced."

The present scheme has been worked out as the result of the best thought and most zealous care of those in charge; it is believed to conform in letter and spirit to the conditions imposed by the generous donors.

As a matter of fact, research work of great importance has been engaged in continuously, as is illustrated by a memorandum attached, showing work done in the last few years.

We wish again to put on record the resolution of the Board of Visitors at its meeting of June 26, 1884, which expresses the sentiment which always has and always will control the management of the University's endowments.

"Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia take pleasure in giving assurance to Leander J. McCormick, Esq., the munificent benefactor of the university, that the liberal fund he has donated to the University has been, and will continue to be regarded as a sacred fund, never to be diverted in any manner from the original purposes contemplated by the generous donor."

Memorandum of Astronomical Observations made at the Leander McCormick Observatory during the three years ending March 1, 1911.

1\. Observations made with the 26 inch equatorial.

a. Long period variables which at minimum are too faint to be observed with smaller telescopes,

546 observations made during year ending March 1, 1909—;

742 observations made during year ending March 1, 1910—;

652 observations made during year ending March 1, 1911—;

b) Micrometrical measurements of double stars,

342 during the year ending March 1, 1909—;

42 during the year ending March 1, 1910—;

c. Observations of stars in the Huyghenian region of the Nebula of Orion—;

459 Micrometric measurements of position during the year ending March 1, 1909—;

408 ditto during the year ending March 1, 1910—;

232 photometric determinations of brightness during the year ending March 1, 1911—;

2\. Numerous observations of bright-variables, meteors and sun spots made with smaller instruments, and with the naked eye.

The following statement was presented by the President, and ordered to be placed on record as follows:

I beg to submit to you the following reports from the Faculty of the Department of Graduate Studies of the University of Virginia and the Faculty of the College of the University of Virginia, the two comprising the Academic Department of the Institution. I submit these reports with my entire approval and endorsement. They are the result of patient study of specially appointed committees of these faculties extending over a period of two years. They have been carefully considered and discussed by the Faculties themselves in utmost detail. In some cases they have been held up for months with a view of obtaining the best information on all subjects connected with the curriculum and the methods of teaching in modern colleges. They have passed the Facilties of the Department of Graduate Studies and of the College with practical unanimity. The report of the Faculty of the Graduate Department is unanimous, and the report from the Faculty of the College comes to you with only one dissenting vote. The fundamental purpose in these proposed modifications is to increase the power, to elevate the standards, and to place on a surer pedagogic basis all instruction given at the University of Virginia.

The reasons for the action of the Faculty of the College are set forth in detail, and demonstrates, I believe, that if the modification be adopted the work of the College in amount, in intensive value, and in proper adjustment to teaching and private study, will be immensely advanced. In the case of the Graduate School, the highest standards of this School are maintained, and yet arrangement is made by which the Graduate School of the University of Virginia can bear that relation to the colleges of this State and nation that graduate schools should bear in their very nature to the educational forms just below them. The reasons influencing the Faculty of the Department of Graduate Studies are also set forth in detail. It is my hope that it will be within your wisdom to ratify these actions of the two faculties.

The President and Faculty of the Department of Graduate Studies recommend to the Rector and Visitors of the University the adoption of the following regulations:

I. No student shall take the Master's degree until at least one year after the pre-requisite Bachelor's degree has been conferred, except with the special consent of the Academic Faculty.

II. No candidate for an advanced degree holding a baccalaureate degree from an institution having the standard prescribed by the State Board of Education of the Commonwealth of Virginia on February 3, 1911, in its definition of a college or university, will be required to take any undergraduate work except such as the Committee on Rules and Courses or the professors in charge may consider necessary for the successful prosecution of the graduate courses elected for the advanced degree.

The applications of students from chartered institutions of learning not coming within the above definition and desiring admission to candidacy for an advanced degree will be considered individually by the Committee on Rules and Courses, which will note especially the candidate's deficiencies, for the purpose of prescribing such courses as will supply them.

III. The degree of Master of Science will be conferred upon the holder of the vocational degree of Bachelor of Science upon conditions similar to those required of the holder of the cultural degree; provided that the graduate courses pursued by the candidate shall be chiefly those in continuation of the principal subject of his work for the Bachelor's degree, and shall be chosen with the approval of the professor or professors concerned; and provided also that the name of this principal subject shall be inscribed upon his diploma.

IV. In case the Board should adopt the recommendations of the Academic Faculty in regard to the re-organization of the courses leading to the baccalaureate degrees, no "C" course shall be counted for an advanced degree unless preceded by two "B" courses from the same group; which courses must be approved by the professor in charge of the "C" course in question.

The President and the Academic Faculty recommend to the Rector and Visitors of the University,

That hereafter each student in the College shall be required to take a minimum of 15 class hours a week,—; two hours of laboratory work being counted as one hour of lecture, or one class hour.

The President and the Academic Faculty also request the Rector and Visitors that the President and the Academic Faculty be given authority to work out the changes in detail made necessary by the above recommendation, as stated in general in the following statement:

A Brief Statement of the Faculty Reasons

For Making the above Recommendation.

The purposes of the above recommendation of the President and the Academic Faculty may be summarized as follows:

1\. To adjust the work and methods of the college more accurately to the work of the secondary schools on the one side and to the work of the graduate and professional departments on the other.

2\. To give to all candidates for the B. A. and B. S. degrees the same amount of personal teaching in language, literature, history, philosophy, and mathematics as is already given such candidates in the schools of natural science in this University, and in all subjects in other American colleges of high standing.

Incidentally, the change above recommended will bring to the college of the University of Virginia the recognition due its work from the educational and professional examining boards of other sections of the country. There will then be associated with this change considerable administrative advantage. The Faculty, however, while recognizing such advantage, is of the opinion that no administrative or merely formal advantage should or could be adduced as argument for any essential change in our present system of instruction. The recommendation of the faculty, which was passed with only one dissenting vote, is based on the belief that the change recommended would be the logical evolution and continuance of the high ideals of scholarship, sound learning, and intensive thoroughness of study and instruction, which have, since its foundation, characterized the work of the University of Virginia.

The change above recommended is not in any way revolutionary in the history of the University. There has never been at any period a law of the Visitors or of the Faculty which forbade a student to take more than three courses a session or to attend more than nine hours of lectures a week. This was set merely as the minimum amount of work required of each student. At all periods any student who possessed ability has been allowed to take as many courses, within certain limits, as he could carry, and statistics show that a large proportion of the successful students have regularly averaged more than three courses passed a session. In fact, the minimum requirement of three courses a session had its origin at the time when the tuition fees in individual subjects were paid into the respective academic schools, and was the result of a proper desire that each school should receive a fair proportion of these fees. At that time each lecture lasted two hours. The number of two hour periods in a week is necessarily less than the number of one hour periods,- hence, the expediency of the regulation passed then requiring special permission of the faculty, if a student wished to take more than three subjects. When the lectures were reduced in length from two hours to one, hard necessity dictated the continuance of the system of three lectures a week and the completion of each course in a single session.

The Professors were few in number and were overworked even under this plan. No higher tribute could be paid to their devotion and genius as teachers than to point to the zeal and love of learning which they inspired, despite the necessarily limited number of hours of instruction.

But changed conditions bring with them the necessity of changed methods. The faculty has increased in numbers, the students as well. Science and learning have opened up new fields of thought. The secondary school system, both public and private, has developed tremendously. To fit these new conditions, the schools of natural science in this University some time ago more than doubled for the individual student the amount of personal teaching and contact with the teaching force, and with the subject of study, by instituting laboratory instruction in addition to the three hours of lectures a week. The Academic Faculty feels that the time has come to do the same in other schools of the University,—;feels also that the changes recommended carry with them in every particular, distinct educational and cultural advantages over the present plan. Nor is the change recommended radical, in the sense that it will affect all of the courses now offered in the academic schools as group electives for the baccalaureate degrees. The seven B. courses under Group III (Natural Science) will not be changed, as all of these courses have already three hours of lectures and 6 hours a week of laboratory per session, thus giving a time value for each course of 6 hours a week.

The courses affected will be the B courses (B. A. or B. S. Courses) in languages, literature, history, philosophy, and mathematics. As at present constituted, the work of these courses is given in a single session in three lectures a week, for each of which the student is supposed to spend four hours in preparation. Under the proposed plan, in order to provide for the increased number of class-hours required, each of these courses will be divided into two courses of one session each. In each of the new courses thus formed there will be three lectures a week, for each of which the student will spend two hours in preparation. In other words, there will be the same total number of hours given to private study, and twice as many hours of teaching. The change may be summed up, therefore, as involving primarily a re-adjustment of hours of instruction to hours spent by the student in preparation for lectures and recitations.

The educational and cultural advantages of this readjustment, as seen by the academic faculty, become most apparent when looked at from the standpoint of the individual student.

As the regulation above recommended would work out in practice, the student would in any one session be occupied with 4 or 5 subjects of study instead of with three. The work of the college student will thus serve as a better transition stage between the work of the preparatory school and the highly specialized and intensive work of the graduate and professional departments. The high-school graduates coming from a system of many topics and frequent recitations, faces two difficulties,—;not enough topics of study to keep him mentally alert, and not enough class hours to spur him to industry. The combined experience of American colleges has worked out the 4 or 5 course system, as the golden mean of the two extremes of the diversified high school curriculum and the concentrated graduate and professional study. From the general educational and cultural standpoint also, the 4 or 5 course-a-year plan is to be preferred to the 3 course system. If a college education means anything, it should mean an opportunity for the student to find himself in the intellectual world, and to be able, thus to select wisely his vocation in life. The proposed plan provides each session more opportunities for this self-finding, more outlooks on the world of thought, more outlets for intellectual activity, more and a wider range of choice of subjects for graduate work, as well as a broader basis for the choice of a profession.

The academic faculty desires to emphasize its continued faith in intensive work, and its belief that the plan recommended would contribute greatly to intensiveness of work in any one subject by the individual student. In languages, literature, history, philosophy, and mathematics the student will receive twice as much instruction as under our present plan. This will make possible and increase content in these courses, a more thorough understanding of them by the student, even though there should be no change in the total number of hours given to preparation. In addition to this advantage, the student will be in contact with such subjects two years instead of one. This increased time of contact will aid mental digestion and assimilation,necessary if acquired knowledge is to become a part of the learner. Of even greater importance for intensive work is the fact that under the proposed plan the work of the student will advance in grade and quality as he advances toward graduation. Under our present system, it is always possible, and not at all unusual for a student to have in his graduating year, work no more advanced in grade, though differing in subject, than in the courses taken during his first session. Under the proposed plan, this will no longer be possible.

The last two considerations have an important bearing on the work of the college as preliminary to work in the graduate department, more especially to work for the Master's degree. The candidate for a B. S. or a B. A. degree who plans to continue work as a candidate for the master's degree in languages, literature, history, philosophy and mathematics, will be, under the proposed plan, in contact with the subjects leading up to his four master's courses at least two years before entering the graduate department. This contact will be in courses in which the second year's work in each will approach more nearly the quality of work done in a graduate course. It is important too that the contact will be continuous, so that there will not be then, as frequently, at present, a gap of a year or more between the completion of a B. A. or B. S. course, and the beginning of a Master's course in the same subject.

In conclusion, the effect of the recommendation of the academic faculty may be summarized as an arrangement that provides for doubling the amount of teaching in the undergraduate courses in languages, literature, history, philosophy, and mathematics, but leaves unchanged the time each student is supposed to give to private study. In the latter respect, the only difference will be that whereas the student is now supposed to spend four hours in preparing for each hour in class in these subjects, then he will spend two—; but have twice as many class hours.

This increase in the amount of teaching must produce better work, sounder knowledge, more thorough training for the exceptional as well as for the average student. "Education is knowledge conveyed through personality." To increase the personal contact between teacher and taught marks, therefore, educational advance, unless the object of education be to keep the pupil away from the teacher. If that system of teaching is best in which the student receives least instruction, then the correspondence school is the royal road to learning. The President and the Academic Faculty believe, however, that the student is here to be taught and that the excellence of any course is to be reckoned not by what the course has in it, but what the student gets out of it. Believing this, the President and the Academic Faculty are convinced that any and every student will get more out of two hours of instruction with two hours study for each, than out of one hour of instruction with four hours of preparation. It is on this ground more than any other, that the President and the Academic Faculty make the recommendation to go from a nine hours-a-week to a fifteen hours-a-week schedule in the college."

After full explanation and thorough discussion by the President, Dean Page of the College, Dean Dabney of the Graduate Department, & Prof. Faulkner of the Committee, the following was unanimously adopted,

Resolved: That the foregoing recommendations of the President and Academic Faculty with regard to the reorganization of the College and of the Department of Graduate Studies be adopted; and that the reasons given for such recommendations be and the same are hereby directed to be recorded as above.

Resolved: That the recommendations of the College and Graduate Departments above adopted, with their accompanying briefs, be published in an early number of the Alumni Bulletin, and that they also be printed in pamphlet form and circulated generally among the Alumni and friends of the University.

On motion, the Board adjourned, subject to the call of the Rector.

At a called meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia on above date in the Presidents' Office.

Present: The Rector, Visitors White, Shackleford, Harmon, Drewry, and President Alderman,

The Board having been called to order at 10:00 by the Rector, the following was adopted:-

Resolved: That George Boardman Eager, Jr., be elected Adjunct Professor of Law in the Department of Law of the University of Virginia, at a salary of $1,500, his duties to begin on the 12th of September 1911.

Resolved: That President Alderman be empowered to make such arrangements as may be necessary for the other appointments needful for the carrying forward of the University work during the summer months, subject to the ratification of the Board at their fall meeting in October.

Resolved: That the McCormick Scholarship be awarded to Mr. Lant Rader Slaven for the session of 1911-1912.

In pursuance of a resolution of November 18th, 1910, the committee appointed to consider a communication from Mr. R. Hall McCormick, submitted the following report, which was adopted, and ordered spread upon the record,—;

To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia:

Your Committee, to whom was referred the correspondence with R. Hall McCormick, Esq., Trustee of the Estate of Leander J. McCormick, making certain suggestions as to the proper scope of the work of the Professor of Astronomy and Director of the Leander McCormick Observatory, beg leave to report.

Mr. McCormick, in his letter of June 11, 1911, addressed to the President, summarizes his conclusions as follows:

"First, that the donor of the telescope and observatory made his gifts for the purpose of their being used along lines of scientific astronomical research, which is the only lines along which they can be used.

"Second, that it was the intention of the Alumni who made the endowment to provide the observatory with a trained astronomer, all of whose time should be devoted to the use of the telescope."

An analysis of these conclusions leads to the result that as the whole time of the professor should be devoted to the use of the telescope and the telescope should be used only along lines of scientific astronomical research, the whole time of the professor should be devoted to research work. This would exclude not only all teaching in Theoretical Astronomy, but also a part of the teaching in practical astronomy.

The memorial presented to the Rector and Visitors by the Society of Alumni on June 29, 1881, turning over the funds collected for the endowment of the Professorship and Working Fund of the Leander McCormick Observatory, contains the following: "Another condition is imposed upon the gift in accordance with the earnest desire of Mr. McCormick to promote active astronomical work by his foundation, and that is that the Directors of the Observatory, (Professor of Astronomy) shall have no teaching to do except in practical or theoretical astronomy."

The action of the Board of Visitors is shown by the following resolution adopted by them at a meeting held March 30, 1881:

"That a new \`School' shall be established at the University to be known as \`The School of Astronomy,' which shall be opened as soon as the buildings shall be in a suitable state. The salary of the Professor shall be the same as those of other \`Schools' and he shall teach theoretical and practical astronomy and no other subject. He shall be Director of the McCormick Observatory, and shall devote his time, when not occupied with instruction of classes, to astronomical investigations and practical use of the observatory for systematic exploration and work."

It thus appears that the work of teaching is the primary duty of the Professor, and he is to devote his time to astronomical investigation only when not occupied with instruction of classes. The University is primarily an educational institution and this is recognized by Mr. McCormick in his letter of June 5, 1882, acknowledging notification of the election of his nominee, Professor Stone. We quote as follows:

"And I feel confident that with Professor Stone in the Chair of Astronomy and in charge of the Observatory, the educational interests of the State will be greatly advanced."

The present scheme has been worked out as the result of the best thought and most zealous care of those in charge; it is believed to conform in letter and spirit to the conditions imposed by the generous donors.

As a matter of fact, research work of great importance has been engaged in continuously, as is illustrated by a memorandum attached, showing work done in the last few years.

We wish again to put on record the resolution of the Board of Visitors at its meeting of June 26, 1884, which expresses the sentiment which always has and always will control the management of the University's endowments.

"Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia take pleasure in giving assurance to Leander J. McCormick, Esq., the munificent benefactor of the university, that the liberal fund he has donated to the University has been, and will continue to be regarded as a sacred fund, never to be diverted in any manner from the original purposes contemplated by the generous donor."

Memorandum of Astronomical Observations made at the Leander McCormick Observatory during the three years ending March 1, 1911.

1\. Observations made with the 26 inch equatorial.

a. Long period variables which at minimum are too faint to be observed with smaller telescopes,

546 observations made during year ending March 1, 1909—;

742 observations made during year ending March 1, 1910—;

652 observations made during year ending March 1, 1911—;

b) Micrometrical measurements of double stars,

342 during the year ending March 1, 1909—;

42 during the year ending March 1, 1910—;

c. Observations of stars in the Huyghenian region of the Nebula of Orion—;

459 Micrometric measurements of position during the year ending March 1, 1909—;

408 ditto during the year ending March 1, 1910—;

232 photometric determinations of brightness during the year ending March 1, 1911—;

2\. Numerous observations of bright-variables, meteors and sun spots made with smaller instruments, and with the naked eye.

I beg to submit to you the following reports from the Faculty of the Department of Graduate Studies of the University of Virginia and the Faculty of the College of the University of Virginia, the two comprising the Academic Department of the Institution. I submit these reports with my entire approval and endorsement. They are the result of patient study of specially appointed committees of these faculties extending over a period of two years. They have been carefully considered and discussed by the Faculties themselves in utmost detail. In some cases they have been held up for months with a view of obtaining the best information on all subjects connected with the curriculum and the methods of teaching in modern colleges. They have passed the Facilties of the Department of Graduate Studies and of the College with practical unanimity. The report of the Faculty of the Graduate Department is unanimous, and the report from the Faculty of the College comes to you with only one dissenting vote. The fundamental purpose in these proposed modifications is to increase the power, to elevate the standards, and to place on a surer pedagogic basis all instruction given at the University of Virginia.

The reasons for the action of the Faculty of the College are set forth in detail, and demonstrates, I believe, that if the modification be adopted the work of the College in amount, in intensive value, and in proper adjustment to teaching and private study, will be immensely advanced. In the case of the Graduate School, the highest standards of this School are maintained, and yet arrangement is made by which the Graduate School of the University of Virginia can bear that relation to the colleges of this State and nation that graduate schools should bear in their very nature to the educational forms just below them. The reasons influencing the Faculty of the Department of Graduate Studies are also set forth in detail. It is my hope that it will be within your wisdom to ratify these actions of the two faculties.

At a called meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia on above date in the Presidents' Office.

Present: The Rector, Visitors White, Shackleford, Harmon, Drewry, and President Alderman,

The Board having been called to order at 10:00 by the Rector, the following was adopted:-

Resolved: That George Boardman Eager, Jr., be elected Adjunct Professor of Law in the Department of Law of the University of Virginia, at a salary of $1,500, his duties to begin on the 12th of September 1911.

Resolved: That President Alderman be empowered to make such arrangements as may be necessary for the other appointments needful for the carrying forward of the University work during the summer months, subject to the ratification of the Board at their fall meeting in October.

Resolved: That the McCormick Scholarship be awarded to Mr. Lant Rader Slaven for the session of 1911-1912.

In pursuance of a resolution of November 18th, 1910, the committee appointed to consider a communication from Mr. R. Hall McCormick, submitted the following report, which was adopted, and ordered spread upon the record,—;

To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia:

Your Committee, to whom was referred the correspondence with R. Hall McCormick, Esq., Trustee of the Estate of Leander J. McCormick, making certain suggestions as to the proper scope of the work of the Professor of Astronomy and Director of the Leander McCormick Observatory, beg leave to report.

Mr. McCormick, in his letter of June 11, 1911, addressed to the President, summarizes his conclusions as follows:

"First, that the donor of the telescope and observatory made his gifts for the purpose of their being used along lines of scientific astronomical research, which is the only lines along which they can be used.

"Second, that it was the intention of the Alumni who made the endowment to provide the observatory with a trained astronomer, all of whose time should be devoted to the use of the telescope."

An analysis of these conclusions leads to the result that as the whole time of the professor should be devoted to the use of the telescope and the telescope should be used only along lines of scientific astronomical research, the whole time of the professor should be devoted to research work. This would exclude not only all teaching in Theoretical Astronomy, but also a part of the teaching in practical astronomy.

The memorial presented to the Rector and Visitors by the Society of Alumni on June 29, 1881, turning over the funds collected for the endowment of the Professorship and Working Fund of the Leander McCormick Observatory, contains the following: "Another condition is imposed upon the gift in accordance with the earnest desire of Mr. McCormick to promote active astronomical work by his foundation, and that is that the Directors of the Observatory, (Professor of Astronomy) shall have no teaching to do except in practical or theoretical astronomy."

The action of the Board of Visitors is shown by the following resolution adopted by them at a meeting held March 30, 1881:

"That a new \`School' shall be established at the University to be known as \`The School of Astronomy,' which shall be opened as soon as the buildings shall be in a suitable state. The salary of the Professor shall be the same as those of other \`Schools' and he shall teach theoretical and practical astronomy and no other subject. He shall be Director of the McCormick Observatory, and shall devote his time, when not occupied with instruction of classes, to astronomical investigations and practical use of the observatory for systematic exploration and work."

It thus appears that the work of teaching is the primary duty of the Professor, and he is to devote his time to astronomical investigation only when not occupied with instruction of classes. The University is primarily an educational institution and this is recognized by Mr. McCormick in his letter of June 5, 1882, acknowledging notification of the election of his nominee, Professor Stone. We quote as follows:

"And I feel confident that with Professor Stone in the Chair of Astronomy and in charge of the Observatory, the educational interests of the State will be greatly advanced."

The present scheme has been worked out as the result of the best thought and most zealous care of those in charge; it is believed to conform in letter and spirit to the conditions imposed by the generous donors.

As a matter of fact, research work of great importance has been engaged in continuously, as is illustrated by a memorandum attached, showing work done in the last few years.

We wish again to put on record the resolution of the Board of Visitors at its meeting of June 26, 1884, which expresses the sentiment which always has and always will control the management of the University's endowments.

"Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia take pleasure in giving assurance to Leander J. McCormick, Esq., the munificent benefactor of the university, that the liberal fund he has donated to the University has been, and will continue to be regarded as a sacred fund, never to be diverted in any manner from the original purposes contemplated by the generous donor."

Memorandum of Astronomical Observations made at the Leander McCormick Observatory during the three years ending March 1, 1911.

1\. Observations made with the 26 inch equatorial.

a. Long period variables which at minimum are too faint to be observed with smaller telescopes,

546 observations made during year ending March 1, 1909—;

742 observations made during year ending March 1, 1910—;

652 observations made during year ending March 1, 1911—;

b) Micrometrical measurements of double stars,

342 during the year ending March 1, 1909—;

42 during the year ending March 1, 1910—;

c. Observations of stars in the Huyghenian region of the Nebula of Orion—;

459 Micrometric measurements of position during the year ending March 1, 1909—;

408 ditto during the year ending March 1, 1910—;

232 photometric determinations of brightness during the year ending March 1, 1911—;

2\. Numerous observations of bright-variables, meteors and sun spots made with smaller instruments, and with the naked eye.

I beg to submit to you the following reports from the Faculty of the Department of Graduate Studies of the University of Virginia and the Faculty of the College of the University of Virginia, the two comprising the Academic Department of the Institution. I submit these reports with my entire approval and endorsement. They are the result of patient study of specially appointed committees of these faculties extending over a period of two years. They have been carefully considered and discussed by the Faculties themselves in utmost detail. In some cases they have been held up for months with a view of obtaining the best information on all subjects connected with the curriculum and the methods of teaching in modern colleges. They have passed the Facilties of the Department of Graduate Studies and of the College with practical unanimity. The report of the Faculty of the Graduate Department is unanimous, and the report from the Faculty of the College comes to you with only one dissenting vote. The fundamental purpose in these proposed modifications is to increase the power, to elevate the standards, and to place on a surer pedagogic basis all instruction given at the University of Virginia.

The reasons for the action of the Faculty of the College are set forth in detail, and demonstrates, I believe, that if the modification be adopted the work of the College in amount, in intensive value, and in proper adjustment to teaching and private study, will be immensely advanced. In the case of the Graduate School, the highest standards of this School are maintained, and yet arrangement is made by which the Graduate School of the University of Virginia can bear that relation to the colleges of this State and nation that graduate schools should bear in their very nature to the educational forms just below them. The reasons influencing the Faculty of the Department of Graduate Studies are also set forth in detail. It is my hope that it will be within your wisdom to ratify these actions of the two faculties.