Board of Visitors minutes (1912) June 29, 1912
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 29, 1912

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a called meeting of the Board of Visitors on above date,

Present: Visitors White, Drewry, Norton, Oliver and Randolph, and President Alderman,

In the absence of the Rector, Visitor Wm. H. White was called to the chair as Rector, pro tem.

The President having presented correspondence and endoresements relating to the several candidates for election to the chair of Greek, after due consideration, it was, on motion,

Resolved: That Doctor Robert Henning Webb be, and he is hereby elected Professor of Greek to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Professor Milton W. Humphreys.

Resolved, further—; That President Edwin A. Alderman be and he is hereby authorized and directed to communicate with Doctor Webb, and fix the amount of salary to be paid to him.

There being no further business, on motion, the Board adjourned.