Board of Visitors minutes (1913) November 11, 1913
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

November 11, 1913

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a called meeting of the Board of Visitors on above date, in the office of the President, East Lawn,

Present: Rector Gordon, and Visitors Craddock, Flood, Norton, Michie, Oliver, Irvine and Drewry; also legal counsel, John B. Moon,

The Rector having called the Board to order at 10:30 A.M.,

Mr. Geo. R. B. Michie, a member of the Committee from this Board appointed at the last meeting to confer with the Miller Board with a view to securing the annual appropriation from that body for the Professor of Biology and Agriculture,—;the said Board having declined to pay over to the University the usual appropriation, on the grounds that there does not now exist a Professor of said Chair, properly appointed,—;reported that a conference had been held, and submitted the following as a report of said conference:

Whereas, on the resignation of Professor Albert H. Tuttle as Miller Professor of Biology and Agriculture in the University of Virginia the Board of Visitors of the University failed to notify the Miller Board that a vacancy had occurred in the said Professorship:

And whereas, the Miller Board in consequence made no arrangement for carrying forward the work of the Miller School of Biology and Agriculture of the University for the current session;

And whereas, the Board of Visitors of the University, in ignorance of the fact that the Miller Board should initiate the arrangement for carrying forward the work of the School for the current session, made the necessary arrangements themselves;

Be it therefore Resolved, that the Miller Board hereby approve of the arrangements made temporarily by the Board of Visitors and only for the current session, and hereby appropriate the sum of fifty-seven hundred and seventy-five (5775.00) to pay for the said work, which amount includes six hundred and twenty-five (625.00) principal balance paid Professor Tuttle's salary up to September, 1913.

On motion of Mr. John B. Moon, it was

Resolved, the Board of Visitors, concurring that the Secretary of the Board of Trustees and the President of the University of Virginia proceed at once to advertise that at the June meeting 1914, that Trustees of the Miller Fund will proceed to nominate, if they so elect, and the Board of Visitors to appoint, if they so elect, a Professor of Agriculture (who shall be a scientific biologist) in the School of Scientific and Practical Agriculture in the Department of Agriculture of the University of Virginia, which School has now been named the School of Biology and Agriculture in the University of Virginia.

Resolved: That the Board of Visitors having received and duly considered the Resolution of the Miller Board passed at its meeting on November 8th, 1913, and in pursuance of the suggestions contained therein, will in conformity with the established usage of this Board instruct the President of the University to invite by publication applications from candidates for the Chair of the School of Agriculture and Biology:

Mr. A. C. Gordon, Chairman of the joint committee composed of a committee from the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia and a like committee from the Board of the Medical College of Virginia, to consider the advisability of consolidating the two medical schools of the state under the control of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, submitted the following report of the meeting of said committee. Same was read, received and ordered spread upon the minutes of this Board, viz:

Joint meeting of the Committees from the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, and the Medical College of Virginia.

Present: Messrs. A. C. Gordon, J. W. Craddock, Geo. R. B. Michie, Dr. W. F. Drewry, and Dr. R. H. Whitehead from the University of Virginia, and

Messrs. L. Z. Morris, Eppa Hunton, Jr., E. L. Bemis, J. W. Williams, and Dr. S. C. Mitchell from the Medical College of Virginia. Also Dr. George Ben Johnston by invitation.

On motion, Mr. A. C. Gordon was unanimously elected Chairman, and immediately assumed the duties of that office.

On motion, J. R. McCauley was appointed Secretary and also assumed the duties of that position.

The Chairman stated that the object of the meeting was to consider the advisability of consolidating the two medical schools of this state under the control of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

After full discussion of the matter, a Sub-Committee composed of Messrs. Gordon, Hunton and Michie, was appointed to draw up a plan of consolidation to be presented to the Joint Committee for consideration. The Committee presented the following resolution, which was adopted:

"Being convinced that the unification of the medical educational interests of the State of Virginia would result in a great medical school in this State, in order to accomplish this result the Committees of the University of Virginia and of the Medical College of Virginia, subject to the approval of their respective governing boards, agree to recommend to the General Assembly of Virginia the passage of an act to enable the Medical College of Virginia to be merged into and to become a part of the University of Virginia upon the following terms:-

1\. The Board of Visitors of the Medical College of Virginia will make an unconditional transfer of the property of the Medical College of Virginia, to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia as the nucleus of a Department of Medicine of the University of Virginia in Richmond.

2\. The task of organizing this new Medical School in all its details shall be entrusted to the authorities of the University of Virginia.

3\. The proposed school shall be a bona fide department of the University of Virginia, having the same academic and legal relationship to the University as that borne by the present Department of Medicine.

4\. The University of Virginia will discontinue either in whole or in part, the teaching of medicine at Charlottesville.

5\. The Board of Visitors shall designate and appoint from its members a Special Committee on the Medical Department consisting of three, who shall have especial charge, subject to the Board of Visitors of the details of conduct, affecting said Department, and the Board shall also appoint an Executive Officer of said Medical Department, who shall not teach, but shall be the local executive officer of the Department, subject to the authority and direction of the President of the University, and to the final control of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

6\. The above agreement is conditioned upon the assurance of securing sufficient funds to guarantee the establishment, organization and maintenance of the proposed school upon a thorough University basis in accordance with the best modern ideals.

It was moved and carried that a Committee of four, consisting of the Rector and one member from the Committee of the University of Virginia and Drs. Mitchell and Johnston from the Medical College of Virginia be appointed to confer with friends of medical education as to the above action, with a view to securing endowment.

This committee was also empowered, when the proper time arrives, to give a statement to the press.

No further business appearing, the meeting adjourned, subject to the call of the Chairman.

(signed)

Armistead C. Gordon, Chairman.

J. R. McCauley, Secretary.

The report was then taken up and discussed at length by the members, with the result that sections 1, 4, 5 and 6 were amended to read as follows:

"Section #1. The Board of Visitors of the Medical College of Virginia will make an unconditional transfer of the property of the Medical College of Virginia, subject to the existing liabilities of said Medical College, which shall be assumed by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia as the nucleus of a Department of Medicine of the University of Virginia in Richmond."

"Section #4. The University of Virginia will discontinue the teaching of Medicine at Charlottesville, except that instruction in the subjects of the first year of the curriculum may be offered there; but the entire medical course will be maintained in Richmond, and the first year of the course may be taken either in Richmond or in Charlottesville. And this provision shall become effective as soon as the transfer from Charlottesville to Richmond shall be completed."

"Section #5. The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia shall, unless and until otherwise determined by said Board, designate and appoint from its members a special committee on the new department consisting of the President, "ex officio," and three members of the Board            who shall have special charge, subject to the Board of Visitors, of the details of administration affecting said department.

The executive management of the proposed school shall, unless and until otherwise determined by said Board of Visitors, be entrusted to a Dean of the Medical Department of the University of Virginia who shall reside in Richmond, subject to the direction of the Rector and Visitors of the University."

"Section #6. The above agreement is conditioned upon the assurance satisfactory to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, of securing sufficient funds to guarantee the establishment, organization and maintenance of the proposed school upon thorough University basis in accordance with the best modern ideals."

The resolution was then redrawn to contain the sections as amended, and placed upon its passage in the following form.

A recorded vote being asked for, same was taken with the following result,- Ayes: Messrs. Craddock, Drewry, Flood, Gordon, Irvine, Michie and Norton; Noes, Oliver.

"Being convinced that the unification of the medical educational interests of the State of Virginia would result in a great medical school in this State, in order to accomplish this result the committees of the University of Virginia and of the Medical College of Virginia, subject to the approval of their respective governing boards, agree to recommend to the General Assembly of Virginia, the passage of an act to enable the Medical College of Virginia to be merged into and to become a part of the University of Virginia upon the following terms:-

1\. The Board of Visitors of the Medical College of Virginia will make an unconditional transfer of the property of the Medical College of Virginia, subject to the existing liabilities of said Medical College, which shall be assumed by the Rector and Visitors of the University, to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia as the nucleus of a Department of Medicine of the University of Virginia in Richmond.

2\. The task of orgainzing this new Medical School in all its details shall be entrusted to the authorities of the University of Virginia.

3\. The proposed school shall be a bona fide department of the University of Virginia having the same academic and legal relationship to the University as that borne by the present Department of Medicine.

4\. The University of Virginia will discontinue the teaching of medicine at Charlottesville, except that the instruction in the subjects of the first year of the curriculum may be offered there, but the entire medical course will be maintained in Richmond, and the first year of the course may be taken either in Richmond or in Charlottesville And this provision shall become effective as soon as the transfer from Charlottesville to Richmond shall be completed.

5\. The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia shall, unless and until otherwise determined by said Board, designate and appoint from its members a special committee on the new department consisting of the President of the University, "Ex officio," and three members of the Board who shall have special charge, subject to the Board of Visitors, of the details of administration affecting said department. The executive management of the proposed school shall, unless and until otherwise determined by said Board of Visitors, be entrusted to a Dean of the Medical Department of the University of Virginia who shall reside in Richmond, subject to the direction of the Rector and Visitors of the University.

6\. The above agreement is conditioned upon the assurance satisfactory to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, of securing sufficient funds to guarantee the establishment, organization and maintenance of the proposed school upon a thorough University basis in accordance with the best modern ideals."

The Rector was authorized and directed to transmit a copy of the amended resolutions to Eppa Hunton, Jr.,for transmission to the Medical College Board.

Resolved: That the Rector and Dr. Alderman constitute a committee, with authority in the Rector to make any additions to the committee, which to him may seem proper, to visit New York with a view to obtaining the endowment necessary for the consolidation of the Medical College of Virginia with that of the Medical Department of the University of Virginia, subject to the action of the Medical College of Virginia, upon the amended resolutions for consolidation this day adopted by this Board.

The following letter from Dr. W. A. Lambeth, was referred to the Executive Committee, with power to act:-

I respectfully ask that you permit me to use the land between the Cemetery branch and Mrs. Towles' line, for the purposes of pasture and gardening. At present, it is swamp land grown up in rushes and brush. It will be greatly improved by use; and of course, can be surrendered immediately on demand of the University.

The petition of the "University Golf Club" to use from the field on the left of McCormick Road, sufficient space for three additional holes, was read and granted.

A proposition was received from the Charlottesville and Albemarle Railway Co., to sell to the University, electric current; and same was disposed of in the following resolution.

Resolved: That the communication from the Charlottesville and Albemarle Railway Company, be referred to the Executive Committee for report to the Board.

Agreement in the Matter of the Will of Miss Mary Amelia Smith.

Whereas, certain questions were raised concerning the probate and validity of the will of the late Miss Mary Amelia Smith of Fauquier County which questions were adjusted and settled among all the parties interested, by a certain agreement entered into on the 20th day of November 1912, between the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Edwin A. Alderman, as President of said University, and Thomas Smith and Frederick Waugh Smith, brothers of the testatrix, all of which more fully appears by the said agreement of Nov. 20th, 1912, which will be found of record in the Clerk's Office of the Circuit Court of Fauquier County.

And Whereas, it was at the time of the execution of said agreement, the desire and purpose of the said Thomas Smith to make in favor of the said Rector and Visitors of the University such provision as would carry into effect as hereinafter stated as far as possible the will of the said Miss Mary Amelia Smith so far as it was in the favor of the said University.

Now therefore, This agreement made this 24th day of January, A.D., 1913, between the said Thomas Smith of the one part and the said Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, herein sometimes styled the University, witnesseth:

That the said Thomas Smith in consideration of the premises herebyagrees and covenants to and with the said University that he will make a last will and testament by which he will devise and bequeath to the University after the death of his wife, such an amount of his individual estate as may make up to the said University the sum of Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) without any interest thereon which is estimated to be the additional amount said University would have received as a full beneficiary from the estate of the said Miss Mary Amelia Smith under the terms and provisions of her will had all of them gone into effect and been fully carried out; but all the property and funds which may pass to the said University, under the will of the said Thomas Smith shall be taken and held by the said University for the same uses and purposes and upon the same conditions as are mentioned and specified in that clause of the will of the said Miss Mary Amelia Smith which makes a provision in favor of the said University, so as to carry into effect her wishes in regard to the same, but while the said will of Miss Mary Amelia Smith is to control as to the uses and purposes of said Thomas Smith's devise and bequest, yet he suggests and requests that it be used to promote the teaching and study of Virginia History by some professorship or assistant professorship or fellowship or by some other appropriate arrangement to be named for or in the memory of the late Major-General and Ex-Governor William Smith.

And the said Rector and Visitors of the said University, expressing their high appreciation of the generous and disinterested motives which have prompted the said Thomas Smith to enter into this agreement and acknowledging their obligation to him for his liberal and unselfish course in the matter, hereby accepts the provisions of this contract and agree to the carrying of the same into effect by way of supplement to the aforesaid contract of November 20th, 1912.

5 Witness the signature and seal of the said Thomas Smith and the signature of the said Rector and Visitors of the University by Armistead C. Gordon, the Rector, with their corporate seal hereunto affixed and attested by the Secretary.

(signed) Thomas Smith, (seal) The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, By Armistead C. Gordon, Rector.

Attest:

E. I. Carruthers, Secretary.

State of Virginia, County of Albrmarle, to-wit:

I, L. W. Wood, a Notary Public for the County aforesaid in the State of Virginia, do certify that Thomas Smith, whose name is signed to the foregoing writing bearing date on the 24th day of January, A. D., 1913, has acknowledged the same before me in my County aforesaid.

Given under my hand this 31st day of October, A. D., 1913.

(signed) L. W. Wood, Notary Public

(My commission expires June 17, 1914.)

State of Virginia, County of Augusta, to-wit:

I, James L. Gordan, a Notary Public for the County aforesaid in the State of Virginia, do certify that Armistead C. Gordon, the Rector of the University of Virginia, whose name is signed to the foregoing writing hearing date on the 24th day of January, A.D., 1913, has acknowledged the same before me in my county aforesaid.

Given under my hand this 4th day of November, A.D., 1913.

(signed) James L. Gordon, Notary Public

(My commission expires June 27, 1917)

The matter of the "Ryan Scholarships" was discussed and a committee, composed of Hon. H. D. Flood, and Judge J. K. M. Norton, was appointed to take up the matter of arranging with Mr. Ryan for the appointment of beneficiaries for said scholarships.

Resolved: That a meeting of the Board be held Thursday, December 11th, at 10:00 A.M., to consider the establishment of a Woman's Co-ordinate College, at or near the University of Virginia, and to hear argument by the advocates and opponents of the proposition, at which time three hours shall be allotted to each side.

Resolved: Second, that the Secretary be directed to communicate this resolution to Mrs. Beverly Munford and Messrs. Henry Taylor and M. M. McGuire, all of Richmond, Virginia.

There being no further business, on motion, the Board adjourned.

Joint meeting of the Committees from the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, and the Medical College of Virginia.

Present: Messrs. A. C. Gordon, J. W. Craddock, Geo. R. B. Michie, Dr. W. F. Drewry, and Dr. R. H. Whitehead from the University of Virginia, and

Messrs. L. Z. Morris, Eppa Hunton, Jr., E. L. Bemis, J. W. Williams, and Dr. S. C. Mitchell from the Medical College of Virginia. Also Dr. George Ben Johnston by invitation.

On motion, Mr. A. C. Gordon was unanimously elected Chairman, and immediately assumed the duties of that office.

On motion, J. R. McCauley was appointed Secretary and also assumed the duties of that position.

The Chairman stated that the object of the meeting was to consider the advisability of consolidating the two medical schools of this state under the control of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

After full discussion of the matter, a Sub-Committee composed of Messrs. Gordon, Hunton and Michie, was appointed to draw up a plan of consolidation to be presented to the Joint Committee for consideration. The Committee presented the following resolution, which was adopted:

"Being convinced that the unification of the medical educational interests of the State of Virginia would result in a great medical school in this State, in order to accomplish this result the Committees of the University of Virginia and of the Medical College of Virginia, subject to the approval of their respective governing boards, agree to recommend to the General Assembly of Virginia the passage of an act to enable the Medical College of Virginia to be merged into and to become a part of the University of Virginia upon the following terms:-

1\. The Board of Visitors of the Medical College of Virginia will make an unconditional transfer of the property of the Medical College of Virginia, to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia as the nucleus of a Department of Medicine of the University of Virginia in Richmond.

2\. The task of organizing this new Medical School in all its details shall be entrusted to the authorities of the University of Virginia.

3\. The proposed school shall be a bona fide department of the University of Virginia, having the same academic and legal relationship to the University as that borne by the present Department of Medicine.

4\. The University of Virginia will discontinue either in whole or in part, the teaching of medicine at Charlottesville.

5\. The Board of Visitors shall designate and appoint from its members a Special Committee on the Medical Department consisting of three, who shall have especial charge, subject to the Board of Visitors of the details of conduct, affecting said Department, and the Board shall also appoint an Executive Officer of said Medical Department, who shall not teach, but shall be the local executive officer of the Department, subject to the authority and direction of the President of the University, and to the final control of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

6\. The above agreement is conditioned upon the assurance of securing sufficient funds to guarantee the establishment, organization and maintenance of the proposed school upon a thorough University basis in accordance with the best modern ideals.

I respectfully ask that you permit me to use the land between the Cemetery branch and Mrs. Towles' line, for the purposes of pasture and gardening. At present, it is swamp land grown up in rushes and brush. It will be greatly improved by use; and of course, can be surrendered immediately on demand of the University.

Joint meeting of the Committees from the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, and the Medical College of Virginia.

Present: Messrs. A. C. Gordon, J. W. Craddock, Geo. R. B. Michie, Dr. W. F. Drewry, and Dr. R. H. Whitehead from the University of Virginia, and

Messrs. L. Z. Morris, Eppa Hunton, Jr., E. L. Bemis, J. W. Williams, and Dr. S. C. Mitchell from the Medical College of Virginia. Also Dr. George Ben Johnston by invitation.

On motion, Mr. A. C. Gordon was unanimously elected Chairman, and immediately assumed the duties of that office.

On motion, J. R. McCauley was appointed Secretary and also assumed the duties of that position.

The Chairman stated that the object of the meeting was to consider the advisability of consolidating the two medical schools of this state under the control of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

After full discussion of the matter, a Sub-Committee composed of Messrs. Gordon, Hunton and Michie, was appointed to draw up a plan of consolidation to be presented to the Joint Committee for consideration. The Committee presented the following resolution, which was adopted:

"Being convinced that the unification of the medical educational interests of the State of Virginia would result in a great medical school in this State, in order to accomplish this result the Committees of the University of Virginia and of the Medical College of Virginia, subject to the approval of their respective governing boards, agree to recommend to the General Assembly of Virginia the passage of an act to enable the Medical College of Virginia to be merged into and to become a part of the University of Virginia upon the following terms:-

1\. The Board of Visitors of the Medical College of Virginia will make an unconditional transfer of the property of the Medical College of Virginia, to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia as the nucleus of a Department of Medicine of the University of Virginia in Richmond.

2\. The task of organizing this new Medical School in all its details shall be entrusted to the authorities of the University of Virginia.

3\. The proposed school shall be a bona fide department of the University of Virginia, having the same academic and legal relationship to the University as that borne by the present Department of Medicine.

4\. The University of Virginia will discontinue either in whole or in part, the teaching of medicine at Charlottesville.

5\. The Board of Visitors shall designate and appoint from its members a Special Committee on the Medical Department consisting of three, who shall have especial charge, subject to the Board of Visitors of the details of conduct, affecting said Department, and the Board shall also appoint an Executive Officer of said Medical Department, who shall not teach, but shall be the local executive officer of the Department, subject to the authority and direction of the President of the University, and to the final control of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

6\. The above agreement is conditioned upon the assurance of securing sufficient funds to guarantee the establishment, organization and maintenance of the proposed school upon a thorough University basis in accordance with the best modern ideals.

I respectfully ask that you permit me to use the land between the Cemetery branch and Mrs. Towles' line, for the purposes of pasture and gardening. At present, it is swamp land grown up in rushes and brush. It will be greatly improved by use; and of course, can be surrendered immediately on demand of the University.