Board of Visitors minutes (1914) March 28, 1914
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 28, 1914

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Education Building (Revised Exhibit of Cost) Itemized List of Equipment
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Executive:

Michie, Craddock, Oliver, Drewry and the Rector.

Finance:

Craddock, Michie and White.

General Contract,

$43,235 00

Heating and Ventilation

4,800 00

Equipment,

3,339 00

Total.

$51,374 00

Auditorium Seats and Stage Furniture

980 00

Four main classrooms, seats, desks, rev. chairs, etc.

658 00

Office of Summer School, Typewriter desks, etc.

124 60

Domestic Science,

100 00

Manual Training Room,

300 00

Auditorium Lantern,

275 00

Toilet Furnishings and Ladies' Room,

50 00

Shades,

120 00

Vacuum Cleaner,

432 00

Incidental Expenses,

300 00

Total.

$3,339 60

The Board of Visitors met on this date at 11:30 o'clock, with the following present: Rector Gordon, and Visitors Michie, Drewry, Oliver, Stearnes and Hatton.

The following gentlemen having been appointed by the Governor and approved by the Senate as Visitors of the University for the four years from February 28th 1914, subscribed to the oaths of office as provided by law, and are filed with the papers of this meeting:

Armistead C. Gordon, (succeeded himself)

John W. Craddock, (succeeded himself)

Wm. Henry White, (succeeded himself)

Goodrich Hatton, (succeeded H. D. Flood)

John W. Chinn, (succeeded Judge Norton)

On motion of Mr. Oliver, Mr. Gordon was re-elected Rector of the University of Virginia.

On motion, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was passed by until the next meeting.

The Rector appointed the following standing committees,—;

Mr. Stearnes stated the principal matter for consideration, that of the support of the University Summer School, from the funds for that purpose as appropriated by the Legislature for summer schools generally. The matter was thoroughly considered by the Board and Conductor of the Summer School, and passed by without formal action.

Dr. Page stated to the Board that Dr. Alderman did not approve of the tenure of the Ryan Scholarships for 4 years, as provided in the rules adopted February 18th, but would approve if made two years. Dr. Page further stated that such limit was agreeable to Mr. Ryan, the donor, whereupon the following was adopted:-

Resolved: That the limit of tenure of the Ryan Scholarships be changed to read two years, instead of four years, as set out in section five (5) of the regulations for said scholarships, minute book, page 456. \[414\]

Mr. Maphis, Professor of Secondary Education, and member of the Building Committee, having in charge the construction of the Education Building, stated to the Board that the total cost of said building and equipment would be $51,374. as per the following schedule:

The donation from the Peabody Education Fund for said purpose being only $40,000., a deficit of $11,374 would have to be taken care of in some manner by the Board, whereupon it was

Resolved: That the Bursar be directed to provide the sum of $11,374., to complete the erection and equipping of the Education Building out of the current income.

Resolved: That the sum of $100.00 be and is hereby appropriated to pay Mr. W. P. McBain for work done during the present session in connection with the "High School Debaters' League."

Resolved: That the sum of $150.00 be appropriated to pay for help for the Dean of the University in the work of the Dean's Office and the President's Office during the Spring and Summer of 1914.

The Bursar recommended to the Board the purchase of a "Multigraph" printing machine, on which a majority of the University printing could be done, thereby reducing the cost of said work very materially. Such an outfit could be purchased at an expense of about $450 whereupon it was

Resolved: That the matter of purchasing a "Multigraph" and all matters relating thereto, be referred to a Committee consisting of Mr. George R. B. Michie and Mr. E. I. Carruthers, Bursar, with full power to act in the premises.

The Bursar explained to the Board that in March 1913, Mrs. Bell, who was at that time managing the "Commons," gave an order to a representative of Thomas Martindale & Co., for 6 doz. canned vegetables, amounting to $37.50; said goods to be shipped September 15, 1912; that Mrs. Bell resigned as said manager and failed to cancel the order.

R. J. Northey & Co., who took over the "Commons" for the session of 1912-13, leasing the building from the University and running it on their own responsibility, received the shipment, used the goods, but had not paid for them, and that the said company was looking to the University for the amount of said bill. The Bursar stated that he had repeatedly endeavored to get Northey to settle the claim, but had been unable to do so, and that there was very little prospect of collecting it from him.

The Board thereupon adopted the following:

Resolved: That the bill of $37.50, of Thomas Martindale & Co., be paid.

The Secretary of the Board presented a communication from Chas. J. McDermott in re—;Doremus estate, and stated that he had gone over the matter with Mr. Moon, Attorney for the University, who gave as his opinion that no disadvantage would accrue to the University by its acceptance of the notice as requested in the letter referred to, and who prepared the resolution in the matter, as set out below:-

I had some correspondence with you about a year ago relative to the Estate of Robert P. Doremus. The Executors are now filing their account.

While the University of Virginia in all probability will never become interested in this Estate, unless of course, the Washington and Lee University shall cease to exist, it is necessary to make the University of Virginia a party to the present proceeding. We ask for a formal Waiver of Citation on the part of the University of Virginia, which we herewith enclose for execution. All other parties interested in the Estate have waived or will waive the citation and consented to the entry of the decree, and we ask for a Waiver by the University of Virginia, for the reason that if we are obliged to cite the University, it will delay the proceeding six or eight weeks, and we trust that the University will help us avoid that delay.

Resolved, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a corporation existing under the laws of Virginia, that A. C. Gordon, Rector of the said Board and University, is hereby authorized and empowered on behalf of the said Board to waive the issue and service of a citation in the matter of the judicial settlement of the Executors of Robert P. Doremus, deceased, under his last will and testament, such citation being issued by the Surrogates' Court of New York County; and further consent that a decree be made settling the account of the said executors, dated March 18, 1914, as filed.

Dean Page stated to the Board that the Faculty had recommended to the Board the appointment of Messrs. J. O. Beaty and D. R. Semmes as holders of the "Green Scholarships." Whereupon, it was,—;

Resolved: That the recommendation of the faculty that J. O. Beaty and D. R. Semmes be appointed to the "Green Scholarship," be referred to a committee of three members of the Board of Visitors, with power to approve—; the approval of the Committee to operate as the action of the Board.

Committee: Mr. Michie, Mr. Hatton, Mr. Oliver.

A similar resolution was adopted with regard to appointments to the "Herndon Scholarships." The same committee to serve.

On motion, the Board adjourned to meet at 10:30 A. M. on May 8th, 1914.

E. I. Carruthers, Secretary

Armistead C. Gordon, Rector

University of Virginia May 8, 1914

The Board met on this date, pursuant to adjournment at the March 28th meeting, with the following members present: Rector Gordon, and Visitors Craddock, Drewry, Irvine, Michie, Oliver, White and Hatton.

The Budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1914, was taken up, gone over carefully and adopted tentatively, with the exception of the sections covering appropriations for the departments of Biology and Grounds and Buildings, which were passed by. Owing to the number of changes which would be made necessary by putting into operation the scheme of increase of salaries as proposed, and the elimination of the above two departments, the budget is not spread in the minutes of this date, but is carried over until the annual meeting on June 15th, for final action.

The Dean of the Faculty read and submitted to the Board a scheme looking to a systematic increase in the salaries of the Professors, which, after discussion, it was on motion,

Resolved: That the matter be referred to a committee consisting of the Rector, the President, and the Dean of the Faculty, with full power to adopt the said scheme or such modification as to them may seem proper, the same to be effective from such date as said Committee may fix.

Memorandum re Salaries.

I. The "initial" salary of a professor is the salary at which his services were first engaged by the University,—;not counting house rent in any case in which either a house was furnished rent free or the usual commutation was paid.

II. After six years of satisfactory service, the salary of any full professor may be increased by 10% of his initial salary.

III. After twelve years of satisfactory service, the salary of any full professor may again be increased by 10% of his initial salary: provided, however, that any professor who has been furnished with a house, rent free,—;or the equivalent commutation—;shall be considered to have received this second increase in salary.

The professors whose salaries are increased under Paragraph II, are the following:

Thornton, Echols, Minor, Lambeth, Page, T.W., Marshall, Dunnington, Dabney, Wilson, Whitehead, Hough, Kent, Graves, Page, J.M., Lefevre, Watts, Lile, Davis, Fitz-Hugh, Heck, Bird,

The salary of no professor will be increased for the next two or three years, under paragraph III, above.

The salaries of the following professors are, for the present, unaffected under the above plan:

Watson, Faulkner, Jordan, Mitchell, Smith, C.A., Newcomb, Maphis, Dobie, Flippin, Webb,

The above plan refers only to full professors who give their whole time to University work.

The following was unanimously adopted:

Resolved: That upon the nomination of the President and Dean, Dr. Chas. P. Oliver be elected Adjunct Professor of Astronomy, at a salary of $450.00, plus one of the Vanderbilt Fellowships.

Resolved: That the President be requested to have the authorities of the Hospital, submit to the Board an annual report of the work of said Hospital showing the number of patients treated, and generally a history of the Hospital for each year, not only for the information of the Board, but to enable it to account to the State for the appropriation made by the State for said Hospital.

The following offered by the Rector, was adopted by a vote of seven to one (7 to 1)—;Mr Oliver voting "no".—;

Resolved: That the salary of the office of Librarian be fixed at $2,000., with the understanding that the incumbent shall be required to give his whole time to the duties of the office of Librarian.

Resolved: That the appropriations as contained in the budget for "Buildings and Grounds" be referred to a special committee consisting of Rector, Mr. Michie, Dr. Alderman, and the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds, which committee is authorized to make an inspection of the Grounds and Buildings, and ascertain and report to the June meeting of the Board, the necessary repairs for which a special appropriation was made by the Legislature.

Resolved,-That the Bursar be and is hereby directed to finance the erection of the Dean's house, which was authorized to be erected by this Board, at a cost of $10,000. out of any surplus from income which may be available from the surplus from last or current fiscal year.

Whereas, certain bonds of Sadie R. and H. P. Porter aggregating $3,200 bearing interest at 6%, representing a loan from the James Estate funds, matured on April 1, 1914, and

Whereas, it is requested by the said parties that said loan be extended for a period of 3 years from that date, and

Whereas, it appears to the Board that the loan is amply secured and protected, therefore,

Resolved,—;That said loan be extended for three years from April 1st, 1914, with the stipulation that the same shall become due and payable at any interest period should the interest be not promptly paid.

The Finance Committee having considered the matter of loans authorized to be made to the "D.K.E. Fraternity" and to the University for the erection of a building at the Entrance: presented the following resolution as embodying their recommendation, same was unanimously adopted:

Whereas, This Board at its meeting February 10th, 1913, arranged to provide means from the James Estate of $20,000. to erect a new building at the Entrance to the University, which sum was on May 20, 1913, increased to $25,000., and also a loan of $6,000. from said estate to the D.K.E. Corporation, and

Whereas,- It now appears that funds are or will soon be available from the James H. Skinner and B. W. Green estates, from which said sums can be had, obviating the sale of securities of the said James estate—;which would entail some loss by reason of the market for such securities from said estate as it was purposed to sell—;to raise said amounts, therefore,

Resolved, That the securities now held in the Skinner Estate consisting of $14,100 Va. Cent. bonds, $1,000. U. S. 4's, $500. U. S. 3's, $500. 4 1/2%, $500. 4% and $100. 3 1/2% City of Staunton Bonds, be sold and the proceeds, together with $4927.36 in cash in the hands of the Bursur from the Skinner Estate, be used for said purposes, and that any deficiency be made up from cash from the Green Estate, as soon as same shall have been received by the University, and that the Bursar be authorized to make temporary arrangment with the banks, if necessary, to care for said amounts until the Green Estate shall have been received.

The Dean submitted the following letter from the President, whereupon the resolution following was adopted:-

I recently took the liberty of       suggesting to Mrs. Chas. H. Senff of 16 East 79th Street, New York City, that a great opportunity existed at the University to do a good service by building a gateway to our new entrance, which would commemorate both her husband and in a large sense, the Honor System at that institution.

Her husband rendered me a great service at a critical moment in my work for the million dollar endowment, and I have always felt very near to him. He is not living now.

I am very glad to be able to report that Mrs. Senff has contributed $10,000.00 for this purpose. I beg you will make suitable acknowledgment of this gift.

I also beg that a committee be appointed to take the matter up immediately for an appropriate gateway and suitable tablets in bronze. I suggest that the Committee consist of the Rector and Mr. Michie from the Board and from the faculty, Messrs. Lambeth, Thornton, and Forrest, and that Mr. Carl Bitter and Mr. Henry Bacon, or either of them, be asked to act as advisory members of the Committee.

Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors accept with grateful appreciation, the munificent gift of $10,000. for the building of the gateway of the University and that the Rector be requested to convey to Mrs. Senff their thanks for the donation.

Resolved: That a Committee be appointed consisting of the Rector and Mr. Michie from the Visitors, and Messrs. Lambeth, Thornton and Forrest from the Faculty, whose duty it shall be to take up at the earliest practicable moment the matter of obtaining suitable plans for an appropriate gateway at the new entrance to the University grounds, and bronze tablets thereon; and that Mr. Carl Bitter and Mr. Henry Bacon, or either of them be requested to act as advisory members of said committee; and that said committee have power to act.

Report of the Executive Committee on the Application of the Religious Exercises Committee of February 18th, 1914, and March 27th, 1914, signed by Dr. C. W. Kent: To the Rector and Visitors of the University:

Your committee has attempted to make a thorough examination of all of the available records relating to the management of the old Temperance Hall since 193 together with the disposition of the income derived therefrom. The result of this investigation is as follows:

In June, 1893, the Faculty recommended that action be taken looking to the transfer of the property to the direct control of the University.

In June, 1895, the Faculty repeated this recommendation, which was then adopted by the Rector and Visitors. The recommendation of the Faculty included a suggestion that if the building were in the hands of the University authorities, it would be preserved in good repair and good order, and the apartments at that time utilized might be employed for good purposes, and further suggested that some of the vacant apartments should be assigned to the use of the Y. M. C. A.

In June, 1898, the Rector and Visitors authorized the Proctor to make six dormitories on the Temperance Hall upper floor at a cost not exceeding $500.00. A statement from the Bursar hereto attached, shows that in June of 1899, the sum of $411.74 was expended on repairs to the dormitories.

On June 13th, 1899, the Rector and Visitors, by resolution, appropriated the sum of $300.00 out of the rents of the Temperance Hall to the Chapel Fund.

On June 11th, 1900, the Faculty made recommendation that the entire net proceeds of Temperance Hall be appropriated for religious purposes. The Rector and Visitors by resolution disapproved this recommendation of the Faculty, and ordered that its action appropriating $300.00 annually to the Chapel Fund should stand.

In June, 1902, the Faculty supported an appeal from the surviving trustees of the Temperance Hall, urging that the income from that building be no longer treated as part of the general income of the University, but the net income be paid over each year to the Religious Exercises Committee. By resolution, adopted October 18th, 1902, the Rector and Visitors provided that the net income from Temperance Hall should be said out to a special Committee of the Faculty to be known as the Committee on Temperance.

It would seem that at no time during the years 18951902, when the University collected and disbursed the rents from Temperance Hall, was there any recognition on the part of the Rector and Visitors of any claim that the Religious Exercises Committee, or any one else might have to these funds. Indeed, by resolution June 11th, 1900, disapproving the Faculty's recommendation that the whole proceeds from the building be devoted to religious purposes, the Rector and Visitors virtually denied any such claim.

Again, when the Faculty in June of 1902, made recommendation that the entire net proceeds be turned over       to the Religious Exercises Committee, the Faculty       did not suggest, or recommend, that there should be any accounting of monies already collected, but recommended that for the future they be no longer treated as belonging to the general income of the University.

It may be noted that following this recommendation, the Rector and Visitors passed a resolution ordering that for the future the net income from Temperance Hall be turned to a special faculty Committee on Temperance. The records do not show, so far as we have been able to ascertain, when, or by what authority, the income from Temperance Hall was put in the hands of the Religious Exercises Committee.

When the Religious Exercises Committee made application to the Rector and Visitors for the funds with which to erect the new building, no reference was made to this claim of the Committee to the rents collected by the University from 1895-1902.

It will be seen from the statement of the Bursar, that during the period when the University had direct charge of the building, the sum of $836.74 was expended on improvements, to say nothing of the charges for general repairs during this period. The University also doubtless paid the insurance, and any other expensed incidental to the management of the property, The Rector and Visitors also appropriated, out of the income for at least two years, $300.00 per year to the Chapel Fund.

This house was builded upon University grounds for a specific purpose. Many years ago, the use of the building for the original purpose, ceased. The property, therefore, beyond all doubt, reverted to the University of Virgina. In the years of financial distress, following the disastrous fire of October 1895, the University needed every available dollar, and every available room. It does not seem reasonable, twelve years after the University gave up the income from the property, during all which period it has been enjoyed by the Religious Exercises Committee, and a year after the building itself has been demolished, that the University should be asked to recognize that it owes, as a debt to the Religious Exercises Committee, all of the rents collected and used by it in the years following the fire.

For the above reasons your committee is constrained to recommend that the application of the Religious Exercises Committee be disapproved.

Respectfully submitted,

(signed) Geo. R. B. Michie, Armistead C. Gordon, John W. Craddock, Walter Tausill Oliver, W. F. Drewry,

Executive Committee.

May 7th, 1914

Whereas, the building erected some years ago at the entrance to the University grounds, known as the Temperance Building, has been pulled down and a new one erected, and

Whereas, the said original building was used for the Temperance Cause under an organization which has passed out of existence, and

Whereas, for the past few years a Committee of the Faculty has been the recipient of the revenues from the old building, known as the Committee on Religious Exercises and

Whereas, the said Committee last named, has petitioned the Board for some thousands of dollars alleged back revenue, and

Whereas, the Executive Committee has filed a report to this Board showing that the title to said new building and the land on which it stands is absolutely in the University, now therefore, to remove all question as to the title to said property, and the validity of the claim of said Religious Exercises Committee, it is

Resolved,—;That all former action of the Board with reference to said property is hereby rescinded, and in lieu thereof a sum not exceeding $1,200. is hereby appropriated for the annual use of said Religious Exercises Committee; said appropriation to be derived from the rents of said property.

Resolved, further,—;That said Committee shall be re-imbursed for any amount which it has expended or become responsible for in connection with the equipment of said new building, said amount not to exceed $1,500. To the Rector and Visitors of the

University of Virginia:

Gentlemen:-

Your petitioner, the Charlottesville and Albemarle Railway Company, respectfully represents that acting under authority granted it at your meeting of November 18th, 1910, it has extended the line of its tracks along the western side of the Rugby Road from Madison Hall to the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway, and that for the past two months a ten-minute car service has been maintained to the entrance of Lambeth Field and University Place, by means of a shuttle car operated to connect with the main line just below the Dispensary on West Main Street. This arrangement necessitates the transfer of all passengers to or from the University at the point of connection, a very decided inconvenience to the public at all times, and especially in bad weather.

In order to avoid this and carry our passengers directly into the University and to Lambeth Field from all points on Main Street lines without transfer, it is necessary that some means be provided whereby the cars may be turned at the University end of the line, since all of our modern main line equipment consists of cars that can be operated from one end only. A turn-table has been put in place, teated, and found to be inefficient, and after considerable study of the problem by competent engineers, we have been forced to the conclusion that nothing except a loop or turning track will afford a satisfactory means of handling the difficulty.

Believing that the necessary authority to construct such a loop upon the property of the University had been obtained, the management of the Company proceeded to purchase the rails and other material, and even went so far as to prepare the grade for the track, the plans calling for a sharp turn to the left at the Lambeth Field Terminus, into the new Carr's Hill Road, swinging in the smallest possible circle, and coming back into main track a short distance from the original point of deviation. The rails and all other material were upon the ground and the work nearing completion, when we were advised that the resolution of November 18th, 1910, included only the right to run over the bank along the western side of the Rugby Road, and that we were mistaken in supposing that we had any authority for the construction of this turning-track. Upon investigation, we found that this advice was correct in every respect, and thereupon all work was at once stopped, pending a report of the whole situation to your Honorable Body.

Your Petitioner therefore respectfully requests that the right to construct this turning-track at the point above described be granted it, so that efficient and satisfactory transportation facilities may be given to and from Madison Hall and Lambeth Field; the work to be done under the supervision of your Supertindent of Grounds and Buildings, and to be made to conform in all respects to his requirements, it being understood that if for any cause or at any time you should see fit to order the removal of the track, it is to be taken up and the ground restored to its original condition within thirty days from the receipt by your Petitioner of such order, and in the event of the failure of said Petitioner to effect such removal and restoration within said thirty-days said work may be done by the University itself and the cost thereof shall be borne by your Petitioner.

As stated above the necessary grading has been done and all meterial is in place so that the expense of completing this turning-track will be small. If Petitioner may be permitted to suggest, it would propose that it be allowed to complete the work so that the whole situation may be inspected at your meeting in June next. If, upon such inspection, the arrangement should not meet with your approval, the track and grades are to be taken up and the land restored as above stated.

Charlottesville & Albemarle Railway Co. by Perkins, Perkins & Walder, Counsel

Resolved: That it is the sense of this Board that it is not desirable for the Charlottesville and Albemarle Street Railway to lay its tracks upon the University grounds, otherwise than as heretofore permitted; and that the said railroad be requested to remove the loop at the northern extension of said road from the University grounds near the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Bridge, and restore the said ground to the condition in which it existed prior to the work done with reference to said loop.

Resolved: That the Secretary be directed to communicate this resolution to the President of said street railroad.

The Bursar brought to the attention of the Board the claim of R. B. Saunders, a student in the Law Department for the three sessions 1909-1912, for a refund on the amount charged him for tuition for the last session, basing said claim on the grounds of ill health which precluded him from completing his work within the prescribed time.

The matter was disposed of in the following offered by Mr. White, and adopted:

Whereas, R. B. Saunders, a student in the Law School of this University, paid the full tuition and University fee for each of the three sessions from 19091912, and

Whereas, said Saunders was unable to attend lectures during a part of the last two sessions, owing to illness, making it necessary for him to re-enter the Law School in January 1912, therefore be it

Resolved: That said Saunders be relieved of the charge of $60. made against him for tuition in the Law School for the session of 1912-13, and that the Bursur is hereby directed to make this credit on his account for said session.

The following petition signed by thirty residents and students living on eastern side of the Fry's Spring Road, was present, and request granted.

We the undersigned residents east of the University, beg permission to enter the University grounds near the Coal Bin.

This will be a great convenience to us and to students living in the same community.

The opening to be located at such point as may be agreed upon by the Supt. of Buildings and Grounds.

We agree to use one opening only and to protect the boundary by preventing openings be made at other points

(signatures)

Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors consent to the agreement and plan set forth in the circular letter of April 20th, 1914, of the Atlanta and Charlotte Air Line Railroad, as to the 40 shares of stock held to the credit of the Byrd Fund, as embodied in said letter; and that the Rector be authorized to execute the paper of consent forwarded by said Railroad Company; and that the Bursar be directed to make the required deposit of $50. covering our proportionate part of the costs in said matter.

Resolved: That a scholarship in the Law School of the value of $140., to the holder, be established to be known as the "Virginia Law Review Scholarship", and that this scholarship be annually awarded to the Editor-in-Chief of the Virginia Law Review by the Rectors and Visitors on the recommendation of the President and Law Faculty of the University.

Resolved: That Professor C. Alphonso Smith be and is hereby granted leave of absence to attend the International Educational Congress to be held at The Hague, September 7 to 12," 1914; and that the sum of $200 be and is hereby appropriated to defray a portion of his expenses while acting as representative of the University of Virginia at the said Congress.

Resolved: That until otherwise ordered by this Board, the rooms formerly occupied by Dr. B. W. Green, be rented to Rev. B. D. Tucker, Jr., at same rate at which they were rented to Dr. Green.

On motion, the Board adjourned to meet in annual session in June.

I had some correspondence with you about a year ago relative to the Estate of Robert P. Doremus. The Executors are now filing their account.

While the University of Virginia in all probability will never become interested in this Estate, unless of course, the Washington and Lee University shall cease to exist, it is necessary to make the University of Virginia a party to the present proceeding. We ask for a formal Waiver of Citation on the part of the University of Virginia, which we herewith enclose for execution. All other parties interested in the Estate have waived or will waive the citation and consented to the entry of the decree, and we ask for a Waiver by the University of Virginia, for the reason that if we are obliged to cite the University, it will delay the proceeding six or eight weeks, and we trust that the University will help us avoid that delay.

I recently took the liberty of       suggesting to Mrs. Chas. H. Senff of 16 East 79th Street, New York City, that a great opportunity existed at the University to do a good service by building a gateway to our new entrance, which would commemorate both her husband and in a large sense, the Honor System at that institution.

Her husband rendered me a great service at a critical moment in my work for the million dollar endowment, and I have always felt very near to him. He is not living now.

I am very glad to be able to report that Mrs. Senff has contributed $10,000.00 for this purpose. I beg you will make suitable acknowledgment of this gift.

I also beg that a committee be appointed to take the matter up immediately for an appropriate gateway and suitable tablets in bronze. I suggest that the Committee consist of the Rector and Mr. Michie from the Board and from the faculty, Messrs. Lambeth, Thornton, and Forrest, and that Mr. Carl Bitter and Mr. Henry Bacon, or either of them, be asked to act as advisory members of the Committee.

We the undersigned residents east of the University, beg permission to enter the University grounds near the Coal Bin.

This will be a great convenience to us and to students living in the same community.

The opening to be located at such point as may be agreed upon by the Supt. of Buildings and Grounds.

We agree to use one opening only and to protect the boundary by preventing openings be made at other points

(signatures)

Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors consent to the agreement and plan set forth in the circular letter of April 20th, 1914, of the Atlanta and Charlotte Air Line Railroad, as to the 40 shares of stock held to the credit of the Byrd Fund, as embodied in said letter; and that the Rector be authorized to execute the paper of consent forwarded by said Railroad Company; and that the Bursar be directed to make the required deposit of $50. covering our proportionate part of the costs in said matter.

Resolved: That a scholarship in the Law School of the value of $140., to the holder, be established to be known as the "Virginia Law Review Scholarship", and that this scholarship be annually awarded to the Editor-in-Chief of the Virginia Law Review by the Rectors and Visitors on the recommendation of the President and Law Faculty of the University.

Resolved: That Professor C. Alphonso Smith be and is hereby granted leave of absence to attend the International Educational Congress to be held at The Hague, September 7 to 12," 1914; and that the sum of $200 be and is hereby appropriated to defray a portion of his expenses while acting as representative of the University of Virginia at the said Congress.

Resolved: That until otherwise ordered by this Board, the rooms formerly occupied by Dr. B. W. Green, be rented to Rev. B. D. Tucker, Jr., at same rate at which they were rented to Dr. Green.

On motion, the Board adjourned to meet in annual session in June.

I had some correspondence with you about a year ago relative to the Estate of Robert P. Doremus. The Executors are now filing their account.

While the University of Virginia in all probability will never become interested in this Estate, unless of course, the Washington and Lee University shall cease to exist, it is necessary to make the University of Virginia a party to the present proceeding. We ask for a formal Waiver of Citation on the part of the University of Virginia, which we herewith enclose for execution. All other parties interested in the Estate have waived or will waive the citation and consented to the entry of the decree, and we ask for a Waiver by the University of Virginia, for the reason that if we are obliged to cite the University, it will delay the proceeding six or eight weeks, and we trust that the University will help us avoid that delay.

I recently took the liberty of       suggesting to Mrs. Chas. H. Senff of 16 East 79th Street, New York City, that a great opportunity existed at the University to do a good service by building a gateway to our new entrance, which would commemorate both her husband and in a large sense, the Honor System at that institution.

Her husband rendered me a great service at a critical moment in my work for the million dollar endowment, and I have always felt very near to him. He is not living now.

I am very glad to be able to report that Mrs. Senff has contributed $10,000.00 for this purpose. I beg you will make suitable acknowledgment of this gift.

I also beg that a committee be appointed to take the matter up immediately for an appropriate gateway and suitable tablets in bronze. I suggest that the Committee consist of the Rector and Mr. Michie from the Board and from the faculty, Messrs. Lambeth, Thornton, and Forrest, and that Mr. Carl Bitter and Mr. Henry Bacon, or either of them, be asked to act as advisory members of the Committee.

We the undersigned residents east of the University, beg permission to enter the University grounds near the Coal Bin.

This will be a great convenience to us and to students living in the same community.

The opening to be located at such point as may be agreed upon by the Supt. of Buildings and Grounds.

We agree to use one opening only and to protect the boundary by preventing openings be made at other points

(signatures)

Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors consent to the agreement and plan set forth in the circular letter of April 20th, 1914, of the Atlanta and Charlotte Air Line Railroad, as to the 40 shares of stock held to the credit of the Byrd Fund, as embodied in said letter; and that the Rector be authorized to execute the paper of consent forwarded by said Railroad Company; and that the Bursar be directed to make the required deposit of $50. covering our proportionate part of the costs in said matter.

Resolved: That a scholarship in the Law School of the value of $140., to the holder, be established to be known as the "Virginia Law Review Scholarship", and that this scholarship be annually awarded to the Editor-in-Chief of the Virginia Law Review by the Rectors and Visitors on the recommendation of the President and Law Faculty of the University.

Resolved: That Professor C. Alphonso Smith be and is hereby granted leave of absence to attend the International Educational Congress to be held at The Hague, September 7 to 12," 1914; and that the sum of $200 be and is hereby appropriated to defray a portion of his expenses while acting as representative of the University of Virginia at the said Congress.

Resolved: That until otherwise ordered by this Board, the rooms formerly occupied by Dr. B. W. Green, be rented to Rev. B. D. Tucker, Jr., at same rate at which they were rented to Dr. Green.

On motion, the Board adjourned to meet in annual session in June.