Board of Visitors minutes (1915) December 28, 1915
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

December 28, 1915

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

A called meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date at 8 o'clock to consider the needs of the University which should be presented to the Legislature at its approaching session, the question of establishing at the University a college for women co-ordinate therewith, and such other matters as may be presented.

There were present the Rector, Armistead C. Gordon, Wm. H. White, Goodrich Hatton, John W. Craddock, Geo. R. B. Michie, Dr. W. F. Drewry, Dr. Frank W. Lewis and Walter T. Oliver.

Dr. Alderman presented to the Board the schedule of University needs which ought to be presented to the Legislature for its consideration. The several items were discussed at length, adopted and referred to the President to be presented to the Legislature at the proper time.

The CoOrdinate College matter was disposed of in the following resolution, offered by Mr. Michie and adopted by a vote of six to two, as follows: AYES, Messrs. Gordon, Craddock, Drewry, Lewis, Oliver and Michie, (6) NOES, Messrs. White and Hatton.

WHEREAS, The conditions of our modern life render it essential to the welfare of the State that young women as well as young men, have access to collegiate training in the arts and sciences, and,

WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia believe that the most practical and efficient mode of meeting this need would be found in the erection of a woman's college near the University of Virginia, and,

WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors are convinced that such a woman's college can be established and conducted in affiliation with the University without injuriously affecting the life, spirit, and traditions of the Institution;

THEREFORE, be it

RESOLVED: That the Rector and Visitors recommend that the General Assembly authorize them to establish and maintain, as soon as sufficient funds are available by appropriation or endowment, a college for white women, co-ordinate with the College of the University of Virginia, wherein shall be offered for women courses of instruction equal, though not necessarily the same as those given in the College of the State University for men, of equal breadth and thoroughness, and of ndentical standards of teaching and examination.

RESOLVED, further, that it is the sense of the Rector and Visitors that such college for women be located on the side of Charlottesville opposite the present site of the University, and shall not be co-educational in character.

RESOLVED, further, that it is the sense of the Rector and Visitors that a sum of money, not less than $100,000 is necessary as an appropriation to provide for the initial expenses of building, equipping, and planning the college, which sum shall be available when an equal amount shall have been guaranteed to the Rector and Visitors from other sources.

On motion, a committee of three, of which the Rector should be a member, was authorized to co-operate with President Alderman in presenting the aforesaid resolution to the Legislature. The Rector appointed Mr. Craddock and Mr. Michie to serve with himself on said committee.

The Phi Delta Theta Fraternity presented a petition to the Board praying for the privilege of erecting a club house on the vacant lot along west side of Rugby Road and between the Kappa Sigma House and the C. & O. Railway.

Said petition was granted, subject to the terms and conditions governing grants to fraternities, as adopted by the Board December 2, 1907, the site to be approved by a committee consisting of Dr. Alderman, Mr. Michie and Dr. Lambeth.

The matter of the Visiting Committee for the Observatory, which was discussed at the last meeting of the Board without action, was again brought to the attention of the Board by the President, and, after a full discussion, the following offered by Mr. White was adopted:

RESOLVED: That a committee is hereby appointed to be known as the "Visitors Committee of the Leander McCormick Observatory", whose duties shall be to make periodical visits to the Observatory at the University, and make such suggestions and recommendations to the Rector and Visitors as may seem to them appropriate, and for such action as the said Rector and Visitors may, in their discretion, see fit to take, the relation of said Committee to the University shall be terminable at the instance of either party. The said Committee, until otherwise determined by the Rector and Visitors, shall consist of the following gentlemen,-the Rector, President, Dr. Mitchell, Mr. McCormick, and Prof. Pickering of Harvard University.

The Bursar transmitted to the Board a letter he had received from Mr. Herbert Noble, Trustee of the Frances. L. Wilson Estate distributing the said estate in kind as agreed to by the Board, and which is as follows:

Re Wilson Estate.

In execution of the Decree of September 9th, 1915, of one of the Surrogates of New York County, I am sending under separate cover, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia one quarter portion of the above estate, as follows:

Trustee's check for $728.99

Certificate # J 52690 for 25 shares of the Preferred

stock of the American Sugar Refining Company,

1 Mobile & Ohio $1000. No. 7091

1 Mobile & Ohio $500. 4% bond, No. 9863

1 Scioto Valley & N. E. R. R. bond, No. 3594

2 N. Y. Gas, Electric Light, Heat & Power Company bonds, Nos. 3150 & 15411.

I am sending you also for your files, copies of Trustee's account to date, copy of decree, also receipt and release, which kindly have signed and acknowledged by the proper officers before a Notary, and return.

You will note from the enclosed supplemental account of Trustee that the interest of $27.56 which has accrued to the estate when the two odd N. Y. Gas, etc. Company bonds were sent to you on the 4th inst, which should have been included in the draft sent with the bonds, has been deducted from the check.

The Bursar stated that the cash and securities received by the University under the foregoing distribution would be of the value of about $7,500.

The following resolution authorizing the Rector to execute a receipt and also a release in said estate, was adopted:

WHEREAS, Herbert Noble, as Trustee under the last will of Frances Louise Wilson, deceased, has made a distribution of the estate of said Frances Louise Wilson under an agreement entered into by the life tenant, Dr. Henry F. Owsley, Visitors and Governors of St. John's College, the Johns Hopkins University, and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, as Remaindermen, whereby the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia have received one-fourth of the corpus of said estate, said agreement having been entered into on behalf of the said Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia by its Executive Committee at a meeting held August 11, 1915, which act is hereby ratified and confirmed, therefore, be it resolved, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia at a meeting held this 28th day of December 1915.

That the Rector is hereby authorized to execute on behalf of said Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia a receipt and release to said Herbert Noble, as Trustee under the last Will and Testament of Frances Louise Wilson, late of the County and State of New York, deceased.

The following offered by Mr. Michie, was adopted:

RESOLVED, The contracts entered into between the University and the City of Charlottesville, Virginia, executed by the Rector on October 7th, 1915, be and are hereby approved, ratified and confirmed, and ordered spread on the minutes.

The first contract provides for the use by the University of the sewers of the City, under certain conditions and regulations, in consideration of the sum of $9,125., and is as follows:

THIS CONTRACT made this 7th day of October, 1915, by and between the City of Charlottesville, hereinafter called the City, of the first part, and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, hereinafter called the University, of the second part

\-WITNESSETH-

That for and in consideration of the sum of Nine Thousand One Hundred Twenty-five Dollars ($9,125.00) cash in hand paid by said University to said City, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, the said City doth hereby grant to the said University the right to use the sewerage system of said City in the following manner, that is to say:

FIRST. Subject to the conditions hereinafter expressed, the University shall have the right to discharge its dewage into the sewers of the City of Charlottesville at such points as may be necessary, upon any of the three following sewer lines: —; 1st. Into the new ten-inch sewer line to be constructed by the City from a point at its main line near the South end of the Ridge Street extended, to a point on the North-west side of the Southern Railway line, near the culvert through which the University sewage now flows: —; 2nd, It may connect the building known as the University Dispensary with that line of the City sewer most accessible thereto; —;3rd, for the purpose of providing sewerage facilities to the Kappa Sigma Fraternity House and Delta Tau Delta Fraternity House, it may run a line into the sewer known as "The Dunnington Sewer", which is at present connected with the City's general system, and with this last named line that said University shall have the right to make such connections as may be necessary to provide proper sewerage for any other buildings that may be hereafter erected upon that portion of the University's property which lies North of the Fayerweather Gymnasium, and West of the Rugby Road, it being distinctly understood, however, that the total number of houses hereafter connected in this location shall not exceed three. That is to say, only five buildings in all shall be connected with said Dunnington Sewer.

In each case the location of such points of connection with the City sewer and with the Dunnington sewer are to be approved by the Mayor of said City, and its Committee on Water and Sewers.

SECOND. The pipes to be used by said University shall not exceed six inches in diameter at point of connection.

THIRD. The said University may connect with said ten-inch sewer line above referred to any or all buildings now or hereafter erected upon land owned by it.

It is distinctly understood and agreed, however, that no rain water or surface water of any kind is to be discharged through such connection into the sewers of said City, and the University covenants with the City that it will require grease traps at all points where domestic sewage or grease is to put into the system, and will establish such rules and regulations in connection with the use of the sewers as may be necessary to conform to present sewer ordinances and regulations of the City to prevent the discharge of material into said pipes which is likely to obstruct or impair the efficiency of the system.

It is further agreed and understood that the right herein given to the University by the City to connect with said sewers shall continue so long as the City shall maintain a sewerage system.

This contract is executed in duplicate.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the City has caused its name to be signed and its official seal affixed by A. V. Conway, its Mayor, and the University has caused its name to be signed and its official seal to be affixed hereto by Armistead C. Gordon, Rector.

The other contract is between the City and University, and provides for the payment by the City to the University of $5,000 per year for two years for erection of new wing, and $2,000 per year in perpetuity for the support of the Hospital, and is as follows:

THIS agreement made and entered into by the City of Charlottesville, a corporation hereinafter called the City, party of the first part, and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a corporation, hereinafter called the University, party of the second part.

WITNESSETH: That whereas the University is about to begin the erection of a new wing to its hospital for the purpose of increasing its facilities for the treatment of patients, and whereas the Council of the City of Charlottesville by resolution adopted on the 31st, day of May, 1914, has appropriated to the building fund for said hospital the sum of $10,000, and directed that a contract be executed providing for the payment of said sum and regulating the admission of certain classes or persons of the City to the hospital for treatment, and providing for the annual payment of the sum of $2,000 to the University for such services,

NOW THEREFORE, pursuant to said resolution and in consideration of the benefits which will accrue to the City from such increased facilities in said hospital, the City doth hereby agree and bind itself to pay to the University the sum of $10,000. the payment of the said sum of $10,000 shall be made at the times and in amounts as follows: $5000 upon the execution of this contract and the residue ($5,000) on November 15th, 1916, but no interest shall be paid on said sum or any part thereof.

And in addition to the payments to be made by the City to the University, as provided above, the City agrees and binds itself to pay to the University the sum of $2,000 annually, the year to begin on the first day of September, 1915. Such annual sum to be paid in installments of $500 each; the first installment to be due and payable on the first day of December, 1915; the second installment on the first day of March, 1916; the third installment on the first day of June, 1916; and the last installment on the first day of September, 1916; and this order of payment shall be controlling through the succeeding or any subsequent year during the continuance of this contract.

In consideration of the payment of the annual sum of $2,000 above set forth, the University agrees and binds itself to render to the City, until such time as it shall be notified by the Mayor or other officers of the City, that such services are no longer needed or desired, medical and hospital services under the restrictions and provisions herein contained.

1\. The University will admit to its wards in its hospital all needy patients, which shall also include needy persons in the employment of the City, or persons on the City's chain gang, or held in confinement under the law, when requested to do so by the overseer of poor, the City physician, the chief-of-police, the Mayor or district nurse, if upon examination by a member of the hospital staff such person or persons are found suitable for hospital treatment; but cases of contagious diseases may not be admitted to the hospital.

2\. There shall be admitted to the hospital (not necessarily to wards, but in proper cases to private rooms) the emergency cases of injury occurring to persons serving the City without compensation.

3\. The hospital authorities shall have the right to discharge such patients, when in their judgment, they no longer require hospital treatment, or are not likely to be benefited by further hospital treatment, such as chronic diseases in patients who might be treated with equal benefit in their homes or other places than the hospital.

It is further agreed and understood that the treatment herein provided for shall include treatment of all indigent cases at the dispensary as well as in the hospital.

It is agreed and understood by the parties hereto that this contract in so far as it relates to the hospital services, and the annual payment of $2000, as herein set forth, may be terminated by either of the parties hereto, upon 60 days notice to the other party of the intention so to do.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the University has caused its name to be hereto signed by Armistead C. Gordon, Rector, and its corporate seal to be hereto affixed, and the City has caused its name to be signed hereto and its corporate seal to be hereto affixed, in this the 7th day of October, 1915.

RESOLVED, The contract between the University and the Board of Supervisors of Albemarle County, submitted by the Chairman of The Executive Committee, be and is hereby approved, and the Rector is hereby authorized to execute same for the University.

THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into by the Board of Supervisorr of Albemarle County, hereinafter called the Board, parties of the first part, and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a corporation, hereinafter called the University, party of the second part.

WITNESSETH:-

THAT WHEREAS, The University has begun the erection of a new wing to its Hospital for the purpose of increasing its facilities for the treatment of patients; and

WHEREAS, The Board, by its resolution adopted the 5th day of June, 1914, has has appropriated the sum of thirty-five hundred dollars ($3500.00) per annum for two years, payable January 1st, 1916 and January 1st, 1917, for the maintenance and support of said Hospital for two years, and from and after the 1st day of January 1918, the sum of one thousand dollars ($1000.00) per annum, commencing January 1st, 1918, for the like maintenance and support of said Hospital, said appropriation, however, not to be paid until the construction of the new wing of the Hospital is commenced and under way, and in consideration of said appropriation the University is to take in and treat at the said University Hospital and at the Dispensary connected with the said University, or elsewhere in Albemarle County, as may be mutually agreed upon, the indigent sick and injured persons of this County, a proper contract between said University and said Board to be drawn and adopted, covering the points set out in this resolution before a committee consisting of the Chairman of the Board, the Attorney for the Commonwealth, and Dr. H. S. Hedges, appointed to confer with the Board of Visitors as to such contract; and the said Chariman, the said Attorney, and the said H. S. Hedges having duly conferred with the said Board of Visitors, this contract is made between the said Board and the said University as follows:-

IN CONSIDERATION of the payment of thirty-five hundred dollars ($3500.00) for the years 1916 and 1917, as aforesaid, and in consideration of the promise and obligation hereafter to pay one thousand dollars (1000.00) per annum, commencing January 1st, 1918, which this Board hereby agrees to pay, the University agrees and binds itself to render to the County, until such time as it shall be notified by the proper authorities of said County that such services are no longer needed or desired, medical and hospital services under the restrictions and provisions herein contained:

FIRST: The University will admit to its wards in this Hospital, care for and treat free of all charges, all needy patients properly chargeable to the County of Albemarle, when requested to do so by any Overseer of the Poor of the County, the County Physician, the Sheriff, the Chairman of the Board of Supervisors, or the District Nurse, if upon examination by a member of the Hospital Staff, such person or persons are found suitable for hospital treatment, but cases of contagious diseases shall not be admitted to the Hospital.

SECOND: There shall be admitted to the Hospital, cared for and treated free of all charges, either in wardsor in private rooms, as the authorities of the Hospital may deem best, the emergency cases of injury occurring to persons in the County of Albemarle, who shall be certified to the Hospital authorities by any of the above mentioned authorities of the County.

THIRD: The said Hospital will also treat such indigent sick and injured persons of this County free of charge, at such other places in Albemarle County as may be mutually agreed upon between the said University and the said Board.

FOURTH: The Hospital authorities shall have the right to discharge such patients when in their judgment they no longer require hospital treatment or are not likely to be benefited by further hospital treatment, such as chronic diseases in patients who might be treated with equal benefit in their homes, or otherplaces than the Hospital.

It is further agreed and understood that the treatment herein provided for shall include treatment of all indigent cases at the Dispensary, as well as the Hospital.

FIFTH: It is agreed and understood by the parties hereto that this contract in so far as it relates to the Hospital services and the annual payment of one thousand dollars ($1000.00) as herein set forth, may be terminated by either of the parties hereto upon sixty days notice to the other party of the intention so to do.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The University has caused its name to be hereto signed by Armistead C. Gordon, Rector, and its Corporate Seal to be hereto attached; and the Board has caused the name of said County to be signed hereto by R. H. Wood, Chairman, attested by its Clerk, and under its seal, by order of said Board, passed at its meeting held April 19th, 1916.

On motion, the Board adjourned, subject to call of the Rector.

Re Wilson Estate.

In execution of the Decree of September 9th, 1915, of one of the Surrogates of New York County, I am sending under separate cover, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia one quarter portion of the above estate, as follows:

Trustee's check for $728.99

Certificate # J 52690 for 25 shares of the Preferred

stock of the American Sugar Refining Company,

1 Mobile & Ohio $1000. No. 7091

1 Mobile & Ohio $500. 4% bond, No. 9863

1 Scioto Valley & N. E. R. R. bond, No. 3594

2 N. Y. Gas, Electric Light, Heat & Power Company bonds, Nos. 3150 & 15411.

I am sending you also for your files, copies of Trustee's account to date, copy of decree, also receipt and release, which kindly have signed and acknowledged by the proper officers before a Notary, and return.

You will note from the enclosed supplemental account of Trustee that the interest of $27.56 which has accrued to the estate when the two odd N. Y. Gas, etc. Company bonds were sent to you on the 4th inst, which should have been included in the draft sent with the bonds, has been deducted from the check.

THIS CONTRACT made this 7th day of October, 1915, by and between the City of Charlottesville, hereinafter called the City, of the first part, and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, hereinafter called the University, of the second part

\-WITNESSETH-

That for and in consideration of the sum of Nine Thousand One Hundred Twenty-five Dollars ($9,125.00) cash in hand paid by said University to said City, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, the said City doth hereby grant to the said University the right to use the sewerage system of said City in the following manner, that is to say:

FIRST. Subject to the conditions hereinafter expressed, the University shall have the right to discharge its dewage into the sewers of the City of Charlottesville at such points as may be necessary, upon any of the three following sewer lines: —; 1st. Into the new ten-inch sewer line to be constructed by the City from a point at its main line near the South end of the Ridge Street extended, to a point on the North-west side of the Southern Railway line, near the culvert through which the University sewage now flows: —; 2nd, It may connect the building known as the University Dispensary with that line of the City sewer most accessible thereto; —;3rd, for the purpose of providing sewerage facilities to the Kappa Sigma Fraternity House and Delta Tau Delta Fraternity House, it may run a line into the sewer known as "The Dunnington Sewer", which is at present connected with the City's general system, and with this last named line that said University shall have the right to make such connections as may be necessary to provide proper sewerage for any other buildings that may be hereafter erected upon that portion of the University's property which lies North of the Fayerweather Gymnasium, and West of the Rugby Road, it being distinctly understood, however, that the total number of houses hereafter connected in this location shall not exceed three. That is to say, only five buildings in all shall be connected with said Dunnington Sewer.

In each case the location of such points of connection with the City sewer and with the Dunnington sewer are to be approved by the Mayor of said City, and its Committee on Water and Sewers.

SECOND. The pipes to be used by said University shall not exceed six inches in diameter at point of connection.

THIRD. The said University may connect with said ten-inch sewer line above referred to any or all buildings now or hereafter erected upon land owned by it.

It is distinctly understood and agreed, however, that no rain water or surface water of any kind is to be discharged through such connection into the sewers of said City, and the University covenants with the City that it will require grease traps at all points where domestic sewage or grease is to put into the system, and will establish such rules and regulations in connection with the use of the sewers as may be necessary to conform to present sewer ordinances and regulations of the City to prevent the discharge of material into said pipes which is likely to obstruct or impair the efficiency of the system.

It is further agreed and understood that the right herein given to the University by the City to connect with said sewers shall continue so long as the City shall maintain a sewerage system.

This contract is executed in duplicate.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the City has caused its name to be signed and its official seal affixed by A. V. Conway, its Mayor, and the University has caused its name to be signed and its official seal to be affixed hereto by Armistead C. Gordon, Rector.

THIS agreement made and entered into by the City of Charlottesville, a corporation hereinafter called the City, party of the first part, and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a corporation, hereinafter called the University, party of the second part.

WITNESSETH: That whereas the University is about to begin the erection of a new wing to its hospital for the purpose of increasing its facilities for the treatment of patients, and whereas the Council of the City of Charlottesville by resolution adopted on the 31st, day of May, 1914, has appropriated to the building fund for said hospital the sum of $10,000, and directed that a contract be executed providing for the payment of said sum and regulating the admission of certain classes or persons of the City to the hospital for treatment, and providing for the annual payment of the sum of $2,000 to the University for such services,

NOW THEREFORE, pursuant to said resolution and in consideration of the benefits which will accrue to the City from such increased facilities in said hospital, the City doth hereby agree and bind itself to pay to the University the sum of $10,000. the payment of the said sum of $10,000 shall be made at the times and in amounts as follows: $5000 upon the execution of this contract and the residue ($5,000) on November 15th, 1916, but no interest shall be paid on said sum or any part thereof.

And in addition to the payments to be made by the City to the University, as provided above, the City agrees and binds itself to pay to the University the sum of $2,000 annually, the year to begin on the first day of September, 1915. Such annual sum to be paid in installments of $500 each; the first installment to be due and payable on the first day of December, 1915; the second installment on the first day of March, 1916; the third installment on the first day of June, 1916; and the last installment on the first day of September, 1916; and this order of payment shall be controlling through the succeeding or any subsequent year during the continuance of this contract.

In consideration of the payment of the annual sum of $2,000 above set forth, the University agrees and binds itself to render to the City, until such time as it shall be notified by the Mayor or other officers of the City, that such services are no longer needed or desired, medical and hospital services under the restrictions and provisions herein contained.

1\. The University will admit to its wards in its hospital all needy patients, which shall also include needy persons in the employment of the City, or persons on the City's chain gang, or held in confinement under the law, when requested to do so by the overseer of poor, the City physician, the chief-of-police, the Mayor or district nurse, if upon examination by a member of the hospital staff such person or persons are found suitable for hospital treatment; but cases of contagious diseases may not be admitted to the hospital.

2\. There shall be admitted to the hospital (not necessarily to wards, but in proper cases to private rooms) the emergency cases of injury occurring to persons serving the City without compensation.

3\. The hospital authorities shall have the right to discharge such patients, when in their judgment, they no longer require hospital treatment, or are not likely to be benefited by further hospital treatment, such as chronic diseases in patients who might be treated with equal benefit in their homes or other places than the hospital.

It is further agreed and understood that the treatment herein provided for shall include treatment of all indigent cases at the dispensary as well as in the hospital.

It is agreed and understood by the parties hereto that this contract in so far as it relates to the hospital services, and the annual payment of $2000, as herein set forth, may be terminated by either of the parties hereto, upon 60 days notice to the other party of the intention so to do.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the University has caused its name to be hereto signed by Armistead C. Gordon, Rector, and its corporate seal to be hereto affixed, and the City has caused its name to be signed hereto and its corporate seal to be hereto affixed, in this the 7th day of October, 1915.

THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into by the Board of Supervisorr of Albemarle County, hereinafter called the Board, parties of the first part, and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a corporation, hereinafter called the University, party of the second part.

WITNESSETH:-

THAT WHEREAS, The University has begun the erection of a new wing to its Hospital for the purpose of increasing its facilities for the treatment of patients; and

WHEREAS, The Board, by its resolution adopted the 5th day of June, 1914, has has appropriated the sum of thirty-five hundred dollars ($3500.00) per annum for two years, payable January 1st, 1916 and January 1st, 1917, for the maintenance and support of said Hospital for two years, and from and after the 1st day of January 1918, the sum of one thousand dollars ($1000.00) per annum, commencing January 1st, 1918, for the like maintenance and support of said Hospital, said appropriation, however, not to be paid until the construction of the new wing of the Hospital is commenced and under way, and in consideration of said appropriation the University is to take in and treat at the said University Hospital and at the Dispensary connected with the said University, or elsewhere in Albemarle County, as may be mutually agreed upon, the indigent sick and injured persons of this County, a proper contract between said University and said Board to be drawn and adopted, covering the points set out in this resolution before a committee consisting of the Chairman of the Board, the Attorney for the Commonwealth, and Dr. H. S. Hedges, appointed to confer with the Board of Visitors as to such contract; and the said Chariman, the said Attorney, and the said H. S. Hedges having duly conferred with the said Board of Visitors, this contract is made between the said Board and the said University as follows:-

IN CONSIDERATION of the payment of thirty-five hundred dollars ($3500.00) for the years 1916 and 1917, as aforesaid, and in consideration of the promise and obligation hereafter to pay one thousand dollars (1000.00) per annum, commencing January 1st, 1918, which this Board hereby agrees to pay, the University agrees and binds itself to render to the County, until such time as it shall be notified by the proper authorities of said County that such services are no longer needed or desired, medical and hospital services under the restrictions and provisions herein contained:

FIRST: The University will admit to its wards in this Hospital, care for and treat free of all charges, all needy patients properly chargeable to the County of Albemarle, when requested to do so by any Overseer of the Poor of the County, the County Physician, the Sheriff, the Chairman of the Board of Supervisors, or the District Nurse, if upon examination by a member of the Hospital Staff, such person or persons are found suitable for hospital treatment, but cases of contagious diseases shall not be admitted to the Hospital.

SECOND: There shall be admitted to the Hospital, cared for and treated free of all charges, either in wardsor in private rooms, as the authorities of the Hospital may deem best, the emergency cases of injury occurring to persons in the County of Albemarle, who shall be certified to the Hospital authorities by any of the above mentioned authorities of the County.

THIRD: The said Hospital will also treat such indigent sick and injured persons of this County free of charge, at such other places in Albemarle County as may be mutually agreed upon between the said University and the said Board.

FOURTH: The Hospital authorities shall have the right to discharge such patients when in their judgment they no longer require hospital treatment or are not likely to be benefited by further hospital treatment, such as chronic diseases in patients who might be treated with equal benefit in their homes, or otherplaces than the Hospital.

It is further agreed and understood that the treatment herein provided for shall include treatment of all indigent cases at the Dispensary, as well as the Hospital.

FIFTH: It is agreed and understood by the parties hereto that this contract in so far as it relates to the Hospital services and the annual payment of one thousand dollars ($1000.00) as herein set forth, may be terminated by either of the parties hereto upon sixty days notice to the other party of the intention so to do.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The University has caused its name to be hereto signed by Armistead C. Gordon, Rector, and its Corporate Seal to be hereto attached; and the Board has caused the name of said County to be signed hereto by R. H. Wood, Chairman, attested by its Clerk, and under its seal, by order of said Board, passed at its meeting held April 19th, 1916.

Re Wilson Estate.

In execution of the Decree of September 9th, 1915, of one of the Surrogates of New York County, I am sending under separate cover, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia one quarter portion of the above estate, as follows:

Trustee's check for $728.99

Certificate # J 52690 for 25 shares of the Preferred

stock of the American Sugar Refining Company,

1 Mobile & Ohio $1000. No. 7091

1 Mobile & Ohio $500. 4% bond, No. 9863

1 Scioto Valley & N. E. R. R. bond, No. 3594

2 N. Y. Gas, Electric Light, Heat & Power Company bonds, Nos. 3150 & 15411.

I am sending you also for your files, copies of Trustee's account to date, copy of decree, also receipt and release, which kindly have signed and acknowledged by the proper officers before a Notary, and return.

You will note from the enclosed supplemental account of Trustee that the interest of $27.56 which has accrued to the estate when the two odd N. Y. Gas, etc. Company bonds were sent to you on the 4th inst, which should have been included in the draft sent with the bonds, has been deducted from the check.

THIS CONTRACT made this 7th day of October, 1915, by and between the City of Charlottesville, hereinafter called the City, of the first part, and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, hereinafter called the University, of the second part

\-WITNESSETH-

That for and in consideration of the sum of Nine Thousand One Hundred Twenty-five Dollars ($9,125.00) cash in hand paid by said University to said City, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, the said City doth hereby grant to the said University the right to use the sewerage system of said City in the following manner, that is to say:

FIRST. Subject to the conditions hereinafter expressed, the University shall have the right to discharge its dewage into the sewers of the City of Charlottesville at such points as may be necessary, upon any of the three following sewer lines: —; 1st. Into the new ten-inch sewer line to be constructed by the City from a point at its main line near the South end of the Ridge Street extended, to a point on the North-west side of the Southern Railway line, near the culvert through which the University sewage now flows: —; 2nd, It may connect the building known as the University Dispensary with that line of the City sewer most accessible thereto; —;3rd, for the purpose of providing sewerage facilities to the Kappa Sigma Fraternity House and Delta Tau Delta Fraternity House, it may run a line into the sewer known as "The Dunnington Sewer", which is at present connected with the City's general system, and with this last named line that said University shall have the right to make such connections as may be necessary to provide proper sewerage for any other buildings that may be hereafter erected upon that portion of the University's property which lies North of the Fayerweather Gymnasium, and West of the Rugby Road, it being distinctly understood, however, that the total number of houses hereafter connected in this location shall not exceed three. That is to say, only five buildings in all shall be connected with said Dunnington Sewer.

In each case the location of such points of connection with the City sewer and with the Dunnington sewer are to be approved by the Mayor of said City, and its Committee on Water and Sewers.

SECOND. The pipes to be used by said University shall not exceed six inches in diameter at point of connection.

THIRD. The said University may connect with said ten-inch sewer line above referred to any or all buildings now or hereafter erected upon land owned by it.

It is distinctly understood and agreed, however, that no rain water or surface water of any kind is to be discharged through such connection into the sewers of said City, and the University covenants with the City that it will require grease traps at all points where domestic sewage or grease is to put into the system, and will establish such rules and regulations in connection with the use of the sewers as may be necessary to conform to present sewer ordinances and regulations of the City to prevent the discharge of material into said pipes which is likely to obstruct or impair the efficiency of the system.

It is further agreed and understood that the right herein given to the University by the City to connect with said sewers shall continue so long as the City shall maintain a sewerage system.

This contract is executed in duplicate.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the City has caused its name to be signed and its official seal affixed by A. V. Conway, its Mayor, and the University has caused its name to be signed and its official seal to be affixed hereto by Armistead C. Gordon, Rector.

THIS agreement made and entered into by the City of Charlottesville, a corporation hereinafter called the City, party of the first part, and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a corporation, hereinafter called the University, party of the second part.

WITNESSETH: That whereas the University is about to begin the erection of a new wing to its hospital for the purpose of increasing its facilities for the treatment of patients, and whereas the Council of the City of Charlottesville by resolution adopted on the 31st, day of May, 1914, has appropriated to the building fund for said hospital the sum of $10,000, and directed that a contract be executed providing for the payment of said sum and regulating the admission of certain classes or persons of the City to the hospital for treatment, and providing for the annual payment of the sum of $2,000 to the University for such services,

NOW THEREFORE, pursuant to said resolution and in consideration of the benefits which will accrue to the City from such increased facilities in said hospital, the City doth hereby agree and bind itself to pay to the University the sum of $10,000. the payment of the said sum of $10,000 shall be made at the times and in amounts as follows: $5000 upon the execution of this contract and the residue ($5,000) on November 15th, 1916, but no interest shall be paid on said sum or any part thereof.

And in addition to the payments to be made by the City to the University, as provided above, the City agrees and binds itself to pay to the University the sum of $2,000 annually, the year to begin on the first day of September, 1915. Such annual sum to be paid in installments of $500 each; the first installment to be due and payable on the first day of December, 1915; the second installment on the first day of March, 1916; the third installment on the first day of June, 1916; and the last installment on the first day of September, 1916; and this order of payment shall be controlling through the succeeding or any subsequent year during the continuance of this contract.

In consideration of the payment of the annual sum of $2,000 above set forth, the University agrees and binds itself to render to the City, until such time as it shall be notified by the Mayor or other officers of the City, that such services are no longer needed or desired, medical and hospital services under the restrictions and provisions herein contained.

1\. The University will admit to its wards in its hospital all needy patients, which shall also include needy persons in the employment of the City, or persons on the City's chain gang, or held in confinement under the law, when requested to do so by the overseer of poor, the City physician, the chief-of-police, the Mayor or district nurse, if upon examination by a member of the hospital staff such person or persons are found suitable for hospital treatment; but cases of contagious diseases may not be admitted to the hospital.

2\. There shall be admitted to the hospital (not necessarily to wards, but in proper cases to private rooms) the emergency cases of injury occurring to persons serving the City without compensation.

3\. The hospital authorities shall have the right to discharge such patients, when in their judgment, they no longer require hospital treatment, or are not likely to be benefited by further hospital treatment, such as chronic diseases in patients who might be treated with equal benefit in their homes or other places than the hospital.

It is further agreed and understood that the treatment herein provided for shall include treatment of all indigent cases at the dispensary as well as in the hospital.

It is agreed and understood by the parties hereto that this contract in so far as it relates to the hospital services, and the annual payment of $2000, as herein set forth, may be terminated by either of the parties hereto, upon 60 days notice to the other party of the intention so to do.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the University has caused its name to be hereto signed by Armistead C. Gordon, Rector, and its corporate seal to be hereto affixed, and the City has caused its name to be signed hereto and its corporate seal to be hereto affixed, in this the 7th day of October, 1915.

THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into by the Board of Supervisorr of Albemarle County, hereinafter called the Board, parties of the first part, and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a corporation, hereinafter called the University, party of the second part.

WITNESSETH:-

THAT WHEREAS, The University has begun the erection of a new wing to its Hospital for the purpose of increasing its facilities for the treatment of patients; and

WHEREAS, The Board, by its resolution adopted the 5th day of June, 1914, has has appropriated the sum of thirty-five hundred dollars ($3500.00) per annum for two years, payable January 1st, 1916 and January 1st, 1917, for the maintenance and support of said Hospital for two years, and from and after the 1st day of January 1918, the sum of one thousand dollars ($1000.00) per annum, commencing January 1st, 1918, for the like maintenance and support of said Hospital, said appropriation, however, not to be paid until the construction of the new wing of the Hospital is commenced and under way, and in consideration of said appropriation the University is to take in and treat at the said University Hospital and at the Dispensary connected with the said University, or elsewhere in Albemarle County, as may be mutually agreed upon, the indigent sick and injured persons of this County, a proper contract between said University and said Board to be drawn and adopted, covering the points set out in this resolution before a committee consisting of the Chairman of the Board, the Attorney for the Commonwealth, and Dr. H. S. Hedges, appointed to confer with the Board of Visitors as to such contract; and the said Chariman, the said Attorney, and the said H. S. Hedges having duly conferred with the said Board of Visitors, this contract is made between the said Board and the said University as follows:-

IN CONSIDERATION of the payment of thirty-five hundred dollars ($3500.00) for the years 1916 and 1917, as aforesaid, and in consideration of the promise and obligation hereafter to pay one thousand dollars (1000.00) per annum, commencing January 1st, 1918, which this Board hereby agrees to pay, the University agrees and binds itself to render to the County, until such time as it shall be notified by the proper authorities of said County that such services are no longer needed or desired, medical and hospital services under the restrictions and provisions herein contained:

FIRST: The University will admit to its wards in this Hospital, care for and treat free of all charges, all needy patients properly chargeable to the County of Albemarle, when requested to do so by any Overseer of the Poor of the County, the County Physician, the Sheriff, the Chairman of the Board of Supervisors, or the District Nurse, if upon examination by a member of the Hospital Staff, such person or persons are found suitable for hospital treatment, but cases of contagious diseases shall not be admitted to the Hospital.

SECOND: There shall be admitted to the Hospital, cared for and treated free of all charges, either in wardsor in private rooms, as the authorities of the Hospital may deem best, the emergency cases of injury occurring to persons in the County of Albemarle, who shall be certified to the Hospital authorities by any of the above mentioned authorities of the County.

THIRD: The said Hospital will also treat such indigent sick and injured persons of this County free of charge, at such other places in Albemarle County as may be mutually agreed upon between the said University and the said Board.

FOURTH: The Hospital authorities shall have the right to discharge such patients when in their judgment they no longer require hospital treatment or are not likely to be benefited by further hospital treatment, such as chronic diseases in patients who might be treated with equal benefit in their homes, or otherplaces than the Hospital.

It is further agreed and understood that the treatment herein provided for shall include treatment of all indigent cases at the Dispensary, as well as the Hospital.

FIFTH: It is agreed and understood by the parties hereto that this contract in so far as it relates to the Hospital services and the annual payment of one thousand dollars ($1000.00) as herein set forth, may be terminated by either of the parties hereto upon sixty days notice to the other party of the intention so to do.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The University has caused its name to be hereto signed by Armistead C. Gordon, Rector, and its Corporate Seal to be hereto attached; and the Board has caused the name of said County to be signed hereto by R. H. Wood, Chairman, attested by its Clerk, and under its seal, by order of said Board, passed at its meeting held April 19th, 1916.