Board of Visitors minutes (1917) November 27, 1917
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

November 27, 1917

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date at 10:3- o'clock, with the following present: Rector Gordon and Visitors Craddock, Michie, Turnbull, Hatton and Walker, and President Alderman.

Mr Cyrus Harding Walker, appointed to fill the unexpired term of Dr. Frank W. Lewis, resigned, presented the certificate of his qualifications as a Visitor, and was welcomed as a member of the body.

The special matter for consideration by the Board was that concerning certain utterances made by Prof. Leon R. Whipple, Adjunct Professor and Director of the School of Journalism in the University, in an address before the Current Events Club of Sweet Briar Institute on November 20, 1917, in the following words, which he admitted he had been caused to be printed in the public press:

PROF. WHIPPLE A PACIFIST

Sweet Briar, Va., Nov. 20. —;"I am a pacifist for the plain, logical reason that war just does not work. War does not remove the menace of autocracy, or make the world safe for democracy, or even protect our own democracy. Therefore peace is only a common-sense alternative, and we as practical people, should be busy trying new, noble, even visionary methods of securing peace with the results we say we seek."

This view was stated by Prof. Leon Whipple, director of the School of Journalism of the University of Virginia in an address on "The Meaning of Pacifism" before the Current Events Club of Sweet Briar College this evening. Mr. Whipple was an editorial writer in Richmond and Washington and has been prominent in social service movements in Virginia, as well as a contributor to leading magazines. He served in the Publicity Department of the Peoples Council—;the leading pacifist organization this summer.

"So I believe to work for peace, most of all during war, is the highest humanity," continued Mr. Whipple, "That is why I gave money to the cause of Morris Hillquit, instead of investing in Liberty Bonds at four per cent. I was moved by the same spirit, I hope, that made two of my ancestors sign the Declaration of Independence, and my grandfather enlist under Jeb Stuart. That spirit today serves freedom by peace, not war.

"I believe we can still make this United States glorious by its stand for peace, despite the fact that the nation sacrificed its grandest oppotrunity when it entered the war. It lost this because we did not have the courage to remain too sensible to fight and because we could not welcome with brains and vision any substitute for war. War is the easiest way for it is conventional, common-place, while the creation of new ideals is hard and dangerous. But we can begin everywhere to take advantage of ways toward peace, for the least of them is better than war which gets nowhere at all.

"Russia has had courage and vision we failed to reveal. She is not afraid to try new hopes in her own life, and toward all the peoples of earth. She will be the spiritual leader of the next generation because she has faith. No real catastrophe can happen to Russia —; her inner spirit protects her, and will convert even the Germans who may invade her. You cannot exploit a nations' soul.

"Cries of treason, suppression of free speech and press cannot stop the peace labors. Compare the spirit of Jane Addams, Herbert Bigelow, David Starr Jordan, lives dedicated for years to human service, with the spirit of the politicians, money-masters, and exploiters who are now loudest for war and democracy while they were before its gravest perils. Which will win?

"It is silly and futile for pacifists to talk about resisting conscription. I am conscripted. Every time I send a word of love by mail to my mother, I give an extra cent to help kill some other mother's sons. The only way I can escape is by dying. My conscience cannot protect me from sharing in this slaughter. But it can keep me from acquiescing.

"Is democracy safe in America when women may be called to face this —; that a son be ordered to France to die in the trenches to make the world safe for democracy, while at the same time his mother, whose home he seeks to protect, is thrown into jail with criminals because she asks the first right of any democracy —; the right of suffrage? Do you wonder women are pacifists?

"Peace without victory is still the only peace, for all others are truces before worse wars. We might exterminate the German nation, or wall them in with armed men, but thus they would defeat us still by making us autocrats. We can win only be freeing the spirit of democracy in the German by good will, not war. We may win, or draw, this war, but the task of democracy remains just the same—; to purify our own life and to act toward all nations so they may trust us, and desire to enjoy the blessings of peace and goodwill and democracy we show them we have won."

President Alderman stated that immediately upon reading the account of the speech furnished to the press by Prof. Whipple, he issued a statement to the press giving his personal and official repudiation of the sentiments and doctrines therein set forth, and that a committee of the faculty, acting voluntarily, drew up a statement of their views upon the matter, which was signed by all who could at the time be reached, which statement was also given immediately to the press, and that at a general meeting of the faculty the matter was discussed, and resolutions condemning the said utterance adopted unanimously. President Alderman further stated that he had received a large number of telegrams and letters from prominent alumni and alumni chapters throughout the country condemning the utterances and calling for action on the part of the University. Among the telegrams and letters received may be mentioned the following:

Governor H. C. Stuart,

Senators Thomas S. Martin and Claude A. Swanson,

Congressmen Hal. D. Flood, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the House of Representatives, and Carter Glass, Chairman Committee on Banking and Finance,

Eppa Hunton, Jr.,

Gordon McCabe,

The Lynchburg Alumni Chapter,

The Staunton Alumni Chapter,

The Washington Alumni Chapter,

The Newport News Alumni Chapter,

The Richmond Alumni Chapter,

The Roanoke Alumni Chapter.

President Alderman stated that he had requested Prof. Whipple to be present at this meeting of the Board. Prof. Whipple was then invited to appear, and did so, and remained throughout the consideration of the case.

It was the consensus of opinion of the Board that the meeting should be an open one and that any one who cared to attend should be admitted. The Rector stated to Prof. Whipple that he had the right to have counsel appear in his behalf, if he so desired, or any other person or persons whom he might desire, and further cautioned him that he was privileged, as he saw fit, to answer, or decline to answer, any questions that might be propounded to him. It was learned that Prof. R. H. Wilson desired to be heard in Prof. Whipple's behalf, and was invited to attend.

President Alderman laid before the Board his official report upon the matter as follows:

I hereby lay before you, in the discharge of my duty as President of the University, a portion of an address made on November 20th at Sweet Briar College by Professor Leon R. Whipple, Adjunct Professor of Journalism in this University, and certain letters showing that it was the deliberate purpose of Professor Whipple, in his capacity as a professor of this University, to conduct a far-reaching propaganda for the promulgation of the sentiments therein expressed.

In the further discharge of a duty inherent in the nature of my office, I am required to accompany these presentments of fact with a definite recommendation for action.

In the performance of his normal duties as a teacher here, Professor Whipple has exhibited energy, capacity, and attention to duty, and in many external ways has been a very useful member of the faculty. As student and teacher, I have always had for him feelings of kindliness and good will. The sacred right of freedom of speech so closely bound up with our University spirit has been freely accorded to Professor Whipple as to all members of the teaching staff, but manifestly there is a limit, in law and reason, to this right, and Professor Whipple has plainly abused and distorted that right. In my judgment and in the judgment of all of his colleagues the address of Prof. Whipple herein submitted, however sincerely held or sincerely uttered, constitutes in its totality and in its specific utterances a document of disloyalty; a counsel of national dishonor; a frank incitement to inactivity in the presence of aggression; a condemnation of the Government and of national leadership; a plea for the impairment of the nation's spirit and energy in the face of grave internal peril and foreign war; a disparagement of those who are willing to die to win a peace based on freedom rather than to accept; without a struggle, a peace based on servitude.

Holding this judgment of Prof. Whipple's utterances and knowing that he not only believes what he says but feels in duty bound to propagate his theories everywhere within his power outside of his class-room, I reach the conclusion, with deep personal regret, that Professor Whipple cannot longer properly discharge the duties of a professor in this University, which is committed to the necessity and righteousness of this war and is proudly sending its sons, graduate and undergraduate, to the battle line. It is therefore, incumbent upon me to recommend to the Rector and Visitors that they declare the appointment of Leon R. Whipple as Adjunct Professor of Journalism to be rescinded and the Chair of Journalism to be vacant from this date.

President Alderman then presented the resolutions adopted by the General Faculty, as follows:

It having come to the attention of the General Faculty of the University that in a recent public address (a copy of which is hereto attached) Prof. Leon R. Whipple, Director of the School of Journalism, has given utterance to sentiments which, in the judgment of the members of this Faculty, are unpatriotic and disloyal - if not seditious - and which, in the face of a foreign war, gravely threatening the safety and honor of this Republic, plainly tend to give aid and comfort to its enemies;

And it appearing further that Prof. Whipple's offense has been aggrevated by the circumstances that advance copies of his address were supplied by him to the public press of this State, with the obvious purpose of disseminating these disloyal opinions among the people - opinions the more rapidly made current when uttered by of professor of the State University;

This Faculty, in the exercise of that academic freedom which it profoundly cherishes, and which it believes Prof. Whipple to have distorted and abused, now places on record its repudiation of Prof. Whipple's sentiments, its condemnation of his propaganda, and its judgment that the deliberate public expression of such opinions is discreditable to a teacher in this University, the consistent policy of which has been, from the inception of the present war, to instill into its sons, graduate and undergraduate, the spirit of loyalty to their Government and the determination to present an undivided front to its enemies.

President Alderman submitted Prof. Whipple's letter to the Lynchburg News, enclosing advance copy of his proposed address to be delivered at Sweet Briar, and also the letter to Prof. Maphis, Chairman of the Extension Bureau of the University, in which Prof. Whipple requested that his name be placed on the list of available speakers for addresses to be delivered on a subject entitled "The Ideals of a Pacifist". Prof. Whipple was shown both of these letters and acknowledged that he wrote them. The letters are as follows:

I enclose an advance story on an address I shall make at Sweet Briar College tonight. I think it may be of interest in your territory as a Sweet Briar event, and also because of the larger interests involved. I hope you will find room for at least some of this as these principles cannot be too often enunciated.

Your editor, Mr. Addison, can guarantee my responsibility if any need arise.

I will appreciate your courtesy, and I am

I response to your recent request to the Faculty of the University for changes in, or additions to, the list of subjects to be offered as free extension lectures, I desire to ask for the following changes:

Please list me for the following addresses -

1\. The Ideals of a Pacifist (Current Events)

2\. The Modern Newspaper (Popular)

3\. Poems of Childhood (Popular Reading)

Please cancel the offering of all other subjects offered by me in the past to throw emphasis on these, and especially on the lecture on "The Ideals of a Pacifist." I ask specifically that you print this subject, and I hope in the first position for emphasis. I am anxious to offer this as my single subject, and should this meet with your approval I trust you will announce this and nothing else.

I will fill any dates at any place in so far as my University work and strength permit. I will pay my own travelling expenses and board so that you can offer this especial lecture absolutely without cost to any group. If you receive requests for free speakers, I hope you will inform me that I may consider filling such engagements. Of your action in this matter I would be glad to be informed, and I shall be pleased to confer with you at once, or hereafter.

The reason for this request is my deep belief that a knowledge of the facts and actions of the peace movement, and a true understanding of the aims of pacifism, is of the greatest value, now in war, and to help make the peace that sometime waits us. The pacifist movement is so strong in this nation and the world that we cannot advance without seeing what it means and listening to its message. The duty of the University to spread all truth for the service of the people demands that we offer some interpretation of a great, hopeful, moral factor in our lives. We cannot miss this duty without being recreant to the spirit of the Founder and of all universities. The president, Dr. Alderman, wisely put this in Faculty meeting when he declared that it would be part of the University's duty to oppose the evils of militarism. I think we must guard the ideals of peace even most carefully when they are most endangered - that is during war.

I offer myself as a means of fulfilling this part of the University's duty. I ask it both as a personal privilege and an academic right.

With expressions of appreciation to you, I am

Prof. Whipple was then requested to make any statement that he might care to touching the question, whereupon he submitted the following paper:

You are asked to dismiss me from the Faculty of the University of Virginia for uttering, publicly, the truth as revealed to my conscience. I am charged with acts that are declared not in accord with the purposes of this nation in the present war, and therefore, I can no longer be of service in this public institution, and am unfit to teach the youth who come to seek truth.

I deny that in speaking the truth so far as it can be revealted to one human being's mind and heart I injure the real and noble ideals of this nation, dim the glory of the University, or am less fitted to teach its students. I deny that I have endangered the true greatness or safety of this nation, for its single greatness and its single safety is the right of truth to prevail. I deny that I have harmed an institution founded by a great lover of human liberty, Thomas Jefferson, in order that the democracy of this State might seek and learn the truth wherever it might lead.

You know by every past progress of mankind that truth is revealed slowly, in many ways, to minorities, and that no age or majority can decalre it possesses all the truth. Therefore, no one of you or even this commonwealth can judge of my ideals, but are forced to trust to the spirit of liberty as preserved in the principle of free speech. War cannot suspend that principle for in it alone this nation, and humanity, can find their last protection from the rule of force. We can win this war at last, whatever the means, only be re-establishing the liberty of which this principle is the model in the very nations with which we are at war., and by cherishing it in our national life as the sole means of progress, and that it might be guarded as to remain the noble hope of the resurrection of our liberties in the face of all defeat.

But the right of free speech is not an academic principle; it must be exercised for its full glory, and exercised under the very conditions we face today - against the sincere and passionate belief of the majority in matters they believe of supreme importance to their existence and future. Therefore, democracy in its wisdom recognizing these facts has guaranteed to men the right to speak the truth as they see it for the sake of the democracy. The sole tests to be used are not the nature of the asserted truths, but the sincerity of the speaker, and the value of his gifts. My sincerity is asserted by all who know me, and proves itself to strangers by my frankness in the face of heavy penalties. The value of my intellectual and spiritual gifts can be judged from my life.

The only injury, then, I could do this University would be to deny the truth I possessed or to keep it secret out of fear when I knew that it could serve the people who erected this place of learning that it might seek and declare the truth - and who, in the end, will demand no other duty of this institution.

Therefore, gentlemen of the Board of Visitors, I answer to this charge that the voicing of the small part of truth which any man can have as revealed by his conscience does not injure this university; it does not sacrifice the real and noble and human aims for which we believe this nation was created to serve mankind; and it will not lessen my power to implant in young men a love of truth and a spirit of liberty - which are the most gracious gifts you could ask for the sons of Virginia, or for your own sons.

Under your solemn obligation to Virginia and the nation, and their peoples, and faced with the eternal influence your action this day will have on the spirit of the University we love, you must decide whether you will dismiss from further usefulness in this institution an individual who seeks the truth and dares proclaim to the people who founded this institution what he believes to be the truth that will help them - or whether you will guard and cherish in this University, the spirit of truth, serene and beautiful even above the passions and dangers of war, in order that here, at least in all the world, freedom may not perish from the earth, but live to light with its wisdom and guide with its hopes the peoples of this earth beyond wrath and fear into brotherhood and peace.

Prof. R. H. Wilson was afforded an opportunity to present his views of the matter, and addressed the body at some length in support of Prof. Wnipple's retention, contending that while he did not agree with the sentiments expressed by Prof. Whipple, yet thought the University, if it dismiss Prof. Whipple would be taking a step calculated to suppress the right of free speech on the part of professors of the University of Virginia.

Following a general discussion of the question, Mr. Hatton presented the following resolution, which was adopted unanimously, viz: Ayes, Messrs. Craddock, Michie, Turnbull, Hatton and Walker, and Gordon:

Whereas it has come to the attention of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that in an address to the students of Sweet Briar Institute, on the 20th day of November, 1917, Professor Leon R. Whipple, Director of the School of Journalism in the University of Virginia, has given utterance to statements which, in the opinion of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, are unpatriotic and disloyal to the United States, if not seditious, and which, at a time when the United States is defending its people in the most devastating war of all history, threaten the safety and honor of the nation and tend to give comfort and aid to its enemies.

And whereas, it appears that Professor Whipple's offense is aggravated by the fact that advance copies of his address were given by him to the press with the plain purpose to disseminate these unpatriotic and disloyal utterances among the people; and these utterances have been given special significance by the fact that they emanated from one of the faculty of this University.

Therefore, be it

Resolved, That although fully committed both in theory and practice to the freedom of academic thought and expression on the part of members of the faculty, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia do regard these utterances as a gross abuse of the freedom of speech, and do hereby place on record their condemnation of this propaganda.

Be it further

Resolved, That the appointment of Leon R. Whipple as Adjunct Professor of Journalism be and is hereby rescinded, and that the Chair of Adjunct Professor of Journalism be and is hereby declared vacant.

Messrs. White, Irvine and Norton who were unable to attend the meeting, communicated to the Board their views in the matter, as set out; to wit:

Following my telegram twenty-fourth, Mrs. White wishes Dr. Alderman and the Board of Visitors to know that the newspaper account of Whipple's utterances have been read to Mr. White, and also Senator Martin's comments upon same. Mr. White heartily endorses the matter.

Greatly regret engagement here prevents my attending Board meeting tomorrow. Assuming object is to consider Whipple, not wishing to condemn without hearing, but based on correctness of reports, my voice is for summary dismissal. Jefferson's University is not fit soil for seeds of treason.

I have just received notice from Mr. Carruthers of a meeting of the Board called for to-morrow, Tuesday. Mr. Carruthers wired me Saturday, but I was out of town until this morning.

I have an idea that the meeting is in reference to our disloyal professor. It was a great shock to me, as I supposed that if there was one place in the country that would be free from German sympathy, it would be the University of Virginia. I suppose, of course, this professor will be removed at once, but that action would not meet out the proper punishment to such a wretch.

Unfortunately, I have an engagement with Mr. Joseph Packard in Baltimore for tomorrow morning, which it is impossible for me to change, and so I cannot attend the meeting, but I am writing you with request that I may be recorded in favor of the most drastic action that can be taken. It is painful to me to feel that I cannot be present, but I am sure the whole Board will feel just exactly as I do about the matter.

The question of payment of salary to Prof. Whipple was disposed of in the following resolution, unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED: That Mr. Leon R. Whipple be paid the balance due on the salary which he received as adjunct professor, up to the first day of February, 1918.

President Alderman stated to the Board that Mrs. Eleanor A. Kent, widow of Dr. Charles W. Kent, who died on October 6th, 1917, had been placed on the list of the Carnegie Endowment for the Advancement of Teaching, as one of its beneficiaries, and would receive the sum of $77.08 per month from October 6th, and asked for instructions as to continuing the monthly payments to Mrs. Kent of the salary heretofore paid to her husband, and it was agreed that such payments should continue to December 31st, 1917.

Professor Francis H. Smith, Emeritus Professor of Natural Philosophy, who for a number of years, has made his home with his daughter, Mrs. Chas. W. Kent, made application for Pavilion V, under the usual terms, which was granted.

The matter of the legacy to the University of Virginia contained in the will of Colonel Oliver H. Payne, was considered. Prof. W. M. Lile, who had been requested to make some investigation of the law as touching the rights of the University in the case, submitted a written opinion thereon, and took part in the general discussion of the question.

The matter was disposed of in the following resolution, which was adopted:

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, occupying as they do a position of trust, and having been advised that they are legally entitled to the legacy of $200,000., under the will of the late Col. O. H. Payne, and further influenced by the implication from all the circumstances of the case, that it was the intention of the testator that such legacy should stand unrevoked, feel that they would not be justified in renouncing the legacy, and therefore, must decline to do so.

It having been brought to the attention of the Board that inconvenience is frequently experienced by the professors and students of the University residing on or having classes on the grounds of the University, by the limitations of the season for operating the central heating plant, under a resolution adopted June 10, 1907, reading:

"Resolved, That the central heating plant be operated from October 18th to May 5th of each year".

it was, on motion of Mr. Michie,

RESOLVED: That the resolution adopted June 10, 1907, be and is hereby rescinded.

On motion, the Board then adjourned.

I hereby lay before you, in the discharge of my duty as President of the University, a portion of an address made on November 20th at Sweet Briar College by Professor Leon R. Whipple, Adjunct Professor of Journalism in this University, and certain letters showing that it was the deliberate purpose of Professor Whipple, in his capacity as a professor of this University, to conduct a far-reaching propaganda for the promulgation of the sentiments therein expressed.

In the further discharge of a duty inherent in the nature of my office, I am required to accompany these presentments of fact with a definite recommendation for action.

In the performance of his normal duties as a teacher here, Professor Whipple has exhibited energy, capacity, and attention to duty, and in many external ways has been a very useful member of the faculty. As student and teacher, I have always had for him feelings of kindliness and good will. The sacred right of freedom of speech so closely bound up with our University spirit has been freely accorded to Professor Whipple as to all members of the teaching staff, but manifestly there is a limit, in law and reason, to this right, and Professor Whipple has plainly abused and distorted that right. In my judgment and in the judgment of all of his colleagues the address of Prof. Whipple herein submitted, however sincerely held or sincerely uttered, constitutes in its totality and in its specific utterances a document of disloyalty; a counsel of national dishonor; a frank incitement to inactivity in the presence of aggression; a condemnation of the Government and of national leadership; a plea for the impairment of the nation's spirit and energy in the face of grave internal peril and foreign war; a disparagement of those who are willing to die to win a peace based on freedom rather than to accept; without a struggle, a peace based on servitude.

Holding this judgment of Prof. Whipple's utterances and knowing that he not only believes what he says but feels in duty bound to propagate his theories everywhere within his power outside of his class-room, I reach the conclusion, with deep personal regret, that Professor Whipple cannot longer properly discharge the duties of a professor in this University, which is committed to the necessity and righteousness of this war and is proudly sending its sons, graduate and undergraduate, to the battle line. It is therefore, incumbent upon me to recommend to the Rector and Visitors that they declare the appointment of Leon R. Whipple as Adjunct Professor of Journalism to be rescinded and the Chair of Journalism to be vacant from this date.

I enclose an advance story on an address I shall make at Sweet Briar College tonight. I think it may be of interest in your territory as a Sweet Briar event, and also because of the larger interests involved. I hope you will find room for at least some of this as these principles cannot be too often enunciated.

Your editor, Mr. Addison, can guarantee my responsibility if any need arise.

I will appreciate your courtesy, and I am

I response to your recent request to the Faculty of the University for changes in, or additions to, the list of subjects to be offered as free extension lectures, I desire to ask for the following changes:

Please list me for the following addresses -

1\. The Ideals of a Pacifist (Current Events)

2\. The Modern Newspaper (Popular)

3\. Poems of Childhood (Popular Reading)

Please cancel the offering of all other subjects offered by me in the past to throw emphasis on these, and especially on the lecture on "The Ideals of a Pacifist." I ask specifically that you print this subject, and I hope in the first position for emphasis. I am anxious to offer this as my single subject, and should this meet with your approval I trust you will announce this and nothing else.

I will fill any dates at any place in so far as my University work and strength permit. I will pay my own travelling expenses and board so that you can offer this especial lecture absolutely without cost to any group. If you receive requests for free speakers, I hope you will inform me that I may consider filling such engagements. Of your action in this matter I would be glad to be informed, and I shall be pleased to confer with you at once, or hereafter.

The reason for this request is my deep belief that a knowledge of the facts and actions of the peace movement, and a true understanding of the aims of pacifism, is of the greatest value, now in war, and to help make the peace that sometime waits us. The pacifist movement is so strong in this nation and the world that we cannot advance without seeing what it means and listening to its message. The duty of the University to spread all truth for the service of the people demands that we offer some interpretation of a great, hopeful, moral factor in our lives. We cannot miss this duty without being recreant to the spirit of the Founder and of all universities. The president, Dr. Alderman, wisely put this in Faculty meeting when he declared that it would be part of the University's duty to oppose the evils of militarism. I think we must guard the ideals of peace even most carefully when they are most endangered - that is during war.

I offer myself as a means of fulfilling this part of the University's duty. I ask it both as a personal privilege and an academic right.

With expressions of appreciation to you, I am

You are asked to dismiss me from the Faculty of the University of Virginia for uttering, publicly, the truth as revealed to my conscience. I am charged with acts that are declared not in accord with the purposes of this nation in the present war, and therefore, I can no longer be of service in this public institution, and am unfit to teach the youth who come to seek truth.

I deny that in speaking the truth so far as it can be revealted to one human being's mind and heart I injure the real and noble ideals of this nation, dim the glory of the University, or am less fitted to teach its students. I deny that I have endangered the true greatness or safety of this nation, for its single greatness and its single safety is the right of truth to prevail. I deny that I have harmed an institution founded by a great lover of human liberty, Thomas Jefferson, in order that the democracy of this State might seek and learn the truth wherever it might lead.

You know by every past progress of mankind that truth is revealed slowly, in many ways, to minorities, and that no age or majority can decalre it possesses all the truth. Therefore, no one of you or even this commonwealth can judge of my ideals, but are forced to trust to the spirit of liberty as preserved in the principle of free speech. War cannot suspend that principle for in it alone this nation, and humanity, can find their last protection from the rule of force. We can win this war at last, whatever the means, only be re-establishing the liberty of which this principle is the model in the very nations with which we are at war., and by cherishing it in our national life as the sole means of progress, and that it might be guarded as to remain the noble hope of the resurrection of our liberties in the face of all defeat.

But the right of free speech is not an academic principle; it must be exercised for its full glory, and exercised under the very conditions we face today - against the sincere and passionate belief of the majority in matters they believe of supreme importance to their existence and future. Therefore, democracy in its wisdom recognizing these facts has guaranteed to men the right to speak the truth as they see it for the sake of the democracy. The sole tests to be used are not the nature of the asserted truths, but the sincerity of the speaker, and the value of his gifts. My sincerity is asserted by all who know me, and proves itself to strangers by my frankness in the face of heavy penalties. The value of my intellectual and spiritual gifts can be judged from my life.

The only injury, then, I could do this University would be to deny the truth I possessed or to keep it secret out of fear when I knew that it could serve the people who erected this place of learning that it might seek and declare the truth - and who, in the end, will demand no other duty of this institution.

Therefore, gentlemen of the Board of Visitors, I answer to this charge that the voicing of the small part of truth which any man can have as revealed by his conscience does not injure this university; it does not sacrifice the real and noble and human aims for which we believe this nation was created to serve mankind; and it will not lessen my power to implant in young men a love of truth and a spirit of liberty - which are the most gracious gifts you could ask for the sons of Virginia, or for your own sons.

Under your solemn obligation to Virginia and the nation, and their peoples, and faced with the eternal influence your action this day will have on the spirit of the University we love, you must decide whether you will dismiss from further usefulness in this institution an individual who seeks the truth and dares proclaim to the people who founded this institution what he believes to be the truth that will help them - or whether you will guard and cherish in this University, the spirit of truth, serene and beautiful even above the passions and dangers of war, in order that here, at least in all the world, freedom may not perish from the earth, but live to light with its wisdom and guide with its hopes the peoples of this earth beyond wrath and fear into brotherhood and peace.

Following my telegram twenty-fourth, Mrs. White wishes Dr. Alderman and the Board of Visitors to know that the newspaper account of Whipple's utterances have been read to Mr. White, and also Senator Martin's comments upon same. Mr. White heartily endorses the matter.

Greatly regret engagement here prevents my attending Board meeting tomorrow. Assuming object is to consider Whipple, not wishing to condemn without hearing, but based on correctness of reports, my voice is for summary dismissal. Jefferson's University is not fit soil for seeds of treason.

I have just received notice from Mr. Carruthers of a meeting of the Board called for to-morrow, Tuesday. Mr. Carruthers wired me Saturday, but I was out of town until this morning.

I have an idea that the meeting is in reference to our disloyal professor. It was a great shock to me, as I supposed that if there was one place in the country that would be free from German sympathy, it would be the University of Virginia. I suppose, of course, this professor will be removed at once, but that action would not meet out the proper punishment to such a wretch.

Unfortunately, I have an engagement with Mr. Joseph Packard in Baltimore for tomorrow morning, which it is impossible for me to change, and so I cannot attend the meeting, but I am writing you with request that I may be recorded in favor of the most drastic action that can be taken. It is painful to me to feel that I cannot be present, but I am sure the whole Board will feel just exactly as I do about the matter.

I hereby lay before you, in the discharge of my duty as President of the University, a portion of an address made on November 20th at Sweet Briar College by Professor Leon R. Whipple, Adjunct Professor of Journalism in this University, and certain letters showing that it was the deliberate purpose of Professor Whipple, in his capacity as a professor of this University, to conduct a far-reaching propaganda for the promulgation of the sentiments therein expressed.

In the further discharge of a duty inherent in the nature of my office, I am required to accompany these presentments of fact with a definite recommendation for action.

In the performance of his normal duties as a teacher here, Professor Whipple has exhibited energy, capacity, and attention to duty, and in many external ways has been a very useful member of the faculty. As student and teacher, I have always had for him feelings of kindliness and good will. The sacred right of freedom of speech so closely bound up with our University spirit has been freely accorded to Professor Whipple as to all members of the teaching staff, but manifestly there is a limit, in law and reason, to this right, and Professor Whipple has plainly abused and distorted that right. In my judgment and in the judgment of all of his colleagues the address of Prof. Whipple herein submitted, however sincerely held or sincerely uttered, constitutes in its totality and in its specific utterances a document of disloyalty; a counsel of national dishonor; a frank incitement to inactivity in the presence of aggression; a condemnation of the Government and of national leadership; a plea for the impairment of the nation's spirit and energy in the face of grave internal peril and foreign war; a disparagement of those who are willing to die to win a peace based on freedom rather than to accept; without a struggle, a peace based on servitude.

Holding this judgment of Prof. Whipple's utterances and knowing that he not only believes what he says but feels in duty bound to propagate his theories everywhere within his power outside of his class-room, I reach the conclusion, with deep personal regret, that Professor Whipple cannot longer properly discharge the duties of a professor in this University, which is committed to the necessity and righteousness of this war and is proudly sending its sons, graduate and undergraduate, to the battle line. It is therefore, incumbent upon me to recommend to the Rector and Visitors that they declare the appointment of Leon R. Whipple as Adjunct Professor of Journalism to be rescinded and the Chair of Journalism to be vacant from this date.

I enclose an advance story on an address I shall make at Sweet Briar College tonight. I think it may be of interest in your territory as a Sweet Briar event, and also because of the larger interests involved. I hope you will find room for at least some of this as these principles cannot be too often enunciated.

Your editor, Mr. Addison, can guarantee my responsibility if any need arise.

I will appreciate your courtesy, and I am

I response to your recent request to the Faculty of the University for changes in, or additions to, the list of subjects to be offered as free extension lectures, I desire to ask for the following changes:

Please list me for the following addresses -

1\. The Ideals of a Pacifist (Current Events)

2\. The Modern Newspaper (Popular)

3\. Poems of Childhood (Popular Reading)

Please cancel the offering of all other subjects offered by me in the past to throw emphasis on these, and especially on the lecture on "The Ideals of a Pacifist." I ask specifically that you print this subject, and I hope in the first position for emphasis. I am anxious to offer this as my single subject, and should this meet with your approval I trust you will announce this and nothing else.

I will fill any dates at any place in so far as my University work and strength permit. I will pay my own travelling expenses and board so that you can offer this especial lecture absolutely without cost to any group. If you receive requests for free speakers, I hope you will inform me that I may consider filling such engagements. Of your action in this matter I would be glad to be informed, and I shall be pleased to confer with you at once, or hereafter.

The reason for this request is my deep belief that a knowledge of the facts and actions of the peace movement, and a true understanding of the aims of pacifism, is of the greatest value, now in war, and to help make the peace that sometime waits us. The pacifist movement is so strong in this nation and the world that we cannot advance without seeing what it means and listening to its message. The duty of the University to spread all truth for the service of the people demands that we offer some interpretation of a great, hopeful, moral factor in our lives. We cannot miss this duty without being recreant to the spirit of the Founder and of all universities. The president, Dr. Alderman, wisely put this in Faculty meeting when he declared that it would be part of the University's duty to oppose the evils of militarism. I think we must guard the ideals of peace even most carefully when they are most endangered - that is during war.

I offer myself as a means of fulfilling this part of the University's duty. I ask it both as a personal privilege and an academic right.

With expressions of appreciation to you, I am

You are asked to dismiss me from the Faculty of the University of Virginia for uttering, publicly, the truth as revealed to my conscience. I am charged with acts that are declared not in accord with the purposes of this nation in the present war, and therefore, I can no longer be of service in this public institution, and am unfit to teach the youth who come to seek truth.

I deny that in speaking the truth so far as it can be revealted to one human being's mind and heart I injure the real and noble ideals of this nation, dim the glory of the University, or am less fitted to teach its students. I deny that I have endangered the true greatness or safety of this nation, for its single greatness and its single safety is the right of truth to prevail. I deny that I have harmed an institution founded by a great lover of human liberty, Thomas Jefferson, in order that the democracy of this State might seek and learn the truth wherever it might lead.

You know by every past progress of mankind that truth is revealed slowly, in many ways, to minorities, and that no age or majority can decalre it possesses all the truth. Therefore, no one of you or even this commonwealth can judge of my ideals, but are forced to trust to the spirit of liberty as preserved in the principle of free speech. War cannot suspend that principle for in it alone this nation, and humanity, can find their last protection from the rule of force. We can win this war at last, whatever the means, only be re-establishing the liberty of which this principle is the model in the very nations with which we are at war., and by cherishing it in our national life as the sole means of progress, and that it might be guarded as to remain the noble hope of the resurrection of our liberties in the face of all defeat.

But the right of free speech is not an academic principle; it must be exercised for its full glory, and exercised under the very conditions we face today - against the sincere and passionate belief of the majority in matters they believe of supreme importance to their existence and future. Therefore, democracy in its wisdom recognizing these facts has guaranteed to men the right to speak the truth as they see it for the sake of the democracy. The sole tests to be used are not the nature of the asserted truths, but the sincerity of the speaker, and the value of his gifts. My sincerity is asserted by all who know me, and proves itself to strangers by my frankness in the face of heavy penalties. The value of my intellectual and spiritual gifts can be judged from my life.

The only injury, then, I could do this University would be to deny the truth I possessed or to keep it secret out of fear when I knew that it could serve the people who erected this place of learning that it might seek and declare the truth - and who, in the end, will demand no other duty of this institution.

Therefore, gentlemen of the Board of Visitors, I answer to this charge that the voicing of the small part of truth which any man can have as revealed by his conscience does not injure this university; it does not sacrifice the real and noble and human aims for which we believe this nation was created to serve mankind; and it will not lessen my power to implant in young men a love of truth and a spirit of liberty - which are the most gracious gifts you could ask for the sons of Virginia, or for your own sons.

Under your solemn obligation to Virginia and the nation, and their peoples, and faced with the eternal influence your action this day will have on the spirit of the University we love, you must decide whether you will dismiss from further usefulness in this institution an individual who seeks the truth and dares proclaim to the people who founded this institution what he believes to be the truth that will help them - or whether you will guard and cherish in this University, the spirit of truth, serene and beautiful even above the passions and dangers of war, in order that here, at least in all the world, freedom may not perish from the earth, but live to light with its wisdom and guide with its hopes the peoples of this earth beyond wrath and fear into brotherhood and peace.

Following my telegram twenty-fourth, Mrs. White wishes Dr. Alderman and the Board of Visitors to know that the newspaper account of Whipple's utterances have been read to Mr. White, and also Senator Martin's comments upon same. Mr. White heartily endorses the matter.

Greatly regret engagement here prevents my attending Board meeting tomorrow. Assuming object is to consider Whipple, not wishing to condemn without hearing, but based on correctness of reports, my voice is for summary dismissal. Jefferson's University is not fit soil for seeds of treason.

I have just received notice from Mr. Carruthers of a meeting of the Board called for to-morrow, Tuesday. Mr. Carruthers wired me Saturday, but I was out of town until this morning.

I have an idea that the meeting is in reference to our disloyal professor. It was a great shock to me, as I supposed that if there was one place in the country that would be free from German sympathy, it would be the University of Virginia. I suppose, of course, this professor will be removed at once, but that action would not meet out the proper punishment to such a wretch.

Unfortunately, I have an engagement with Mr. Joseph Packard in Baltimore for tomorrow morning, which it is impossible for me to change, and so I cannot attend the meeting, but I am writing you with request that I may be recorded in favor of the most drastic action that can be taken. It is painful to me to feel that I cannot be present, but I am sure the whole Board will feel just exactly as I do about the matter.