Board of Visitors minutes (1918) April 5, 1918
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 5, 1918

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

The Board met on this date in special session, pursuant to call of the Rector. There were present Rector Irvine and Visitors Hatton, Michie, Norton, Robertson and Bryan.

Mr. John Stewart Bryan of Richmond, appointed by the Governor a Visitor of the University for the term of four years, beginning February 28, 1918, which appointment was duly confirmed by the State Senate, presented certificate of qualification.

The minutes of the meeting of March 27, 1918, were read and approved.

The special matter for consideration was that of entering into a contract with the War Department to train Army Motor-truck Drivers and Mechanics. Prof. J. L. Newcomb, who had been charged with the preliminary arrangement for the proposed undertaking, appeared before the meeting and stated that the War Department was ready to enter into a contract whereby a certain number of students would be sent here for a definite period of training; that to accommodate the school, barracks, machine shops and such other buildings as would be necessary would have to be erected, costing approximately $40,000.; and that the City Council had adopted a resolution in which it agreed to guarantee the University against loss in the undertaking, under certain conditions as set forth in the agreement, to the extent of $20,000., and that this action on the part of the City Council had been guaranteed by responsible citizens of the City and community in legal form.

A full discussion of the matter was had, and the following resolution adopted:

THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, having this day submitted a contract in writing, providing the terms and conditions under which it desires the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to undertake the instruction of Motor Truck Drivers and Chauffeurs to meet the needs of the U. S. Government at this time, and the Rector and Visitors desiring to render to the Unived States Government all possible service in the present emergency,

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: That the Rector is hereby authorized to execute and deliver the said contract in the name and behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia. Said contract to be entered on the minutes of this meeting in full.

RESOLVED, FURTHER: That the resolution of the Board of Aldermen and Common Council of the City of Charlottesville, adopted April 3, 1918, a copy of which is ordered to be filed, and the indemnity thereby provided is hereby accepted.

RESOLVED, FURTHER: That the indemnity provided by the obligation of sundry citizens, firms and corporations of Charlottesville and vicinity, embodied in two certain papers dated April 5th, 1918, copies of which are ordered to be filed, is hereby accepted.

RESOLVED, FURTHER: That the Rector is hereby authorized to execute deliver and have discounted, and from time to time renew, all note or notes necessary to provide the money to carry into effect the said contract with the United States of America.

RESOLVED, FURTHER: That all contracts, estimates and records of every kind pertaining to the subject matter of this resolution, be filed with the Bursar.

RESOLVED, FURTHER, That a committee consisting of Mr. Michie, Chairman of the Executive Committee of this Board, and Prof. Newcomb be and they are hereby appointed to negotiate and enter into all contracts, and to purchase all materials and do all other things necessary to the carrying out of the foregoing resolution; the said contracts to be signed by Mr. Michie for and on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Va.

THIS AGREEMENT MADE THIS 5th day of April in the year 1918, by and between the United States of America, represented by the War Department Committee on Education and Special Training, appointed pursuant to General Orders, No. 15-1918, (hereinafter called the War Department) and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a corporation of the State of Virginia, having its principal place of business at University in said State, hereinafter called the Institution.

WITNESSETH:

FIRST: The Institution agrees to furnish trade and technical instruction for a period of six month, beginning about May 15, 1918, to men of the United States Army who may be assigned to it for such instruction by the War Department, in the course of training classified below. It is contemplated that the total number of men under instruction at any one time will be approximately 600, distributed in three shifts of two months each, making a total of 1800 men, all to be instructed in the cours for Motor-Truck Drivers and Chauffeurs.

SECOND: The Institution further agrees,

(a) To conduct the courses as far as possible in conformity with the syllabi, manuals and instructions governing these courses to be issued by the War Department or by the Federal Board for Vocational Education, acting for this purpose as an agent of the War Department.

(b) To furnish or cause to be furnished such suitable workroom and classroom space and equipment, including heat, light and such working tools, materials, supplies and appliances as may be necessary for the instruction above referred to; it being understood that the War Department will provide trucks for instruction in driving. All equipment which may be delivered to the Institution by the War Department for use in instructions shall be receipted for by the Institution, which shall assume responsibility therefor.

(c) To procure the services of competent instructors for these courses in the approximate proportion of one instructor to 20 men, the number of instructors to be based on the number of men to be trained as above set forth; all instructors for these courses to be appointed subject to the approval of the War Department, and to be withdrawn from this duty upon request to this effect from the War Department.

(d) To provide such administrative supervision of the instructors and men as is customary in conducting courses of this type; to keep such records of attendance and progress as may be later prescribed; to exclude from the courses all persons not assigned thereto by the War Department or its authorized representative.

(e) So far as reasonably possible, to provide or secure grounds and facilities for the training of the men in drill and tactics.

(f) To co-operate closely with the War Department and its authorized representatives in all measures they may take for supervision, inspection and development of methods of training, including visits to class-rooms and work-rooms, personal conferences with and direction of instructors, frequent meetings of groups of instructors, and the like; and to cooperate closely with officers of the Army in all measures they may take for the military training, discipline and general welfare of the men.

(g) To prepare monthly a report in form prescribed by the War Department, covering all operations of the month preceding, and to mail this report, if possible on or before the 10th of each month to the War Department.

THIRD: That the Institution further agrees to provide or procure meals for such men of a quantity and quality equivalent army rations during the period of the training.

FOURTH: That the Institution further agrees to provide or procure suitable lodging, bath and toilet facilities for such men during the period of their training, provided that the War Department shall furnish the following: Necessary cots, blankets and bed-sacks.

FIFTH: That the War Department, IN CONSIDERATION OF THE FOREGOING, agrees to pay to the Institution promptly after the close of each month, in accordance with the following sliding scales: The sum of One Dollar and Seventy-five cents ($1.75) per day for each man for subsistence and quarters, if the average daily attendance for the month is 600 or more. The sum of One Dollar and Eighty Cents ($1.80) per day for each man for subsistence and quarters, if the average daily attendance during the month is between 575 and 599. The sum of One Dollar and Eighty-six Cents ($1.86) per day for each man for subsistence and quarters, if the average daily attendance during the month is between 550 and 574. The sum of One Dollar and Ninety-three Cents ($1.93) per day for each man for subsistence and quarters if the average daily attendance during the month is between 525 and 549. The sum of Two Dollars and no Cents ($2.00) per day for each man for subsistence and quarters, if the average daily attendance during the month is fewer than 525.

FOR THE UNITED STATES.

WITNESS:

F. W. Kunnewell for Committee.

Grenville Clark, Major W. S. R. Secretary, Committee on Education and Special Training.

WITNESS: R. C. Pforer.

FOR THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

By R. T. Irvine, Rector.

The following, offered by Mr. Hatton, were adopted:

RESOLVED: That the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings be requested to report to the Board at its next meeting, when and at what intervals, and by whom inspection of the fire-plugs is made, and also whether all the University buildings are properly protected by fire-plugs, especially the Hospital.

RESOLVED: That the Attorney for the Rector and Visitors is hereby requested to compile and submit in proper form all the Acts of the General Assembly now in force, and relating directly to the University.

On motion the Board adjourned.