Board of Visitors minutes (1918) November 26, 1918
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

November 26, 1918

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

PRESIDENT'S STATEMENT OF ATTENDANCE
-----------------------------------

Classes scheduled

7:30

to

8:30,

1st day,

7:15

to

8:15 p.m.;

Classes scheduled

8:30

to

9:30

1st day,

8:15

to

9:15 p.m.;

Classes scheduled

9:30

to

10:30

2nd day,

7:15

to

8:15 p.m.;

Classes scheduled

10:30

to

11:30

2nd day,

8:15

to

9:15 p.m.;

Classes scheduled

11:30

to

12:30

3rd day,

7:15

to

8:15 p.m.;

Classes scheduled

1:30

to

3:30

3rd day,

8:15

to

9:15 p.m.;

Advertising

329.84

Alumni Bulletin

261.28

Printing

157.48

College and Graduate Departments

9,594.68

Law Department

2,227.49

Medical Department

483.43

$13,054.20

General Administration:

Board of Visitors' expenses

53.71

Catalogue

30.02

Stamps and stamped envelopes

115.15

Stationery, office supplies, diplomas

348.08

Telephones and telegraphing

94.42

Traveling expenses

197.01

General expense

114.56

952.71

Gymnasium

138.56

138.56

Buildings and Grounds:

Fuel

4,048.28

Insurance

696.32

Motor truck

1,845.00

6,589.60

Miscellaneous:

Organ repairs

76.13

Univ. Va. Council for National Safety

43.41

Fontaine Portrait Fund

14.34

Flag Pole #1

17.00

Interest on Temporary loans

302.00

Interest allowed on Astronomical Fund

244.23

697.11

8,377.98

Total number of students registered

1046

Withdrawn, with permission

39

Withdrawn, (estimated) without permission

36

75

971

Registered in Medical Department

109

Registered in Engineering Department

219

S. A. T. C., inducted

680

S. A. T. C., ordered away

88

592

S. A. T. C., enrolled

79

Naval Unit

50

Ordered away

2

48

Naval Reserves

17

A call meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 8 o'clock in the evening with the following members present: The Rector, R. T. Irvine, and Visitors Goodrich Hatton, Judge J. K. M. Norton, C. Harding Walker, G. R. B. Michie, and John Stewart Bryan, and President Alderman.

The minutes of the meeting of June 10th, 1918, which had been copied and sent to the members of the Board, were approved.

The President presented the enrollments in the several schools for the session and went over the military situation at some length. He also stated that it had been his intention to prepare and present to this meeting a new budget for the fiscal year to take care of conditions growing out of the change incident to the establishment of the S. A. T. C. But in view of the fact that demobilization was about to take place he had found it impossible to make up said budget with any degree of accuracy and would, therefore, have to defer its present ation until a later meeting.

The President announced the following gifts and settlements of bequests which he had duly acknowledged on the part of the Board:

An oil portrait of Hon. A. C. Gordon from the Beverley Club of Staunton, Virginia. The following letter concerning the portrait was received from the Beverley Club.

On behalf of the Beverley Club of Staunton, Va., of which he was a charter member and its first President, in 1890, I have the pleasure of presenting to the University of Virginia an oil portrait of Mr. Armistead C. Gordon, the University's late Rector.

It is requested that this portrait may be hung on the walls of the Colonnade Club.

With great respect,

The following is a copy of President Alderman's acceptance on behalf of the Board:

I beg to acknowledge receipt of your communication of the 19th inst. informing me of the purpose of the Beverley Club, of Staunton, to present to the University of Virginia an oil portrait of the University's late Rector, Hon. Armistead C. Gordon. I note also the request that this portrait be hung on the walls of the Colonnade Club.

I beg to assure you that the University appreciates profoundly this action of kindness and generosity on the part of the Beverley Club. No man in recent times has rendered more important and enduring service to the University than Armistead C. Gordon. He is beloved here both for his personal qualities and for his statesmanlike service to the institution.

I shall report your gift later to the Rector and Visitors of the University, and assure you in advance of the great pleasure which this gift will give them.

A $500 Liberty Bond from Dr. Julian E. Ingle of Raleigh, N. C. of the Class of 1861 to become a part of the permanent endowment fund of the University. The following letter concerning the Liberty Bond was received from Dr. Ingle.

As an Alumnus of the University may I ask your kind assistance in placing in the proper hands a small contribution to the Permanent Endowment Fund of the Institution. I enclose for this purpose a Liberty Bond for five hundred dollars and shall be greatly obliged to you for your compliance with my request.

With grateful memories of my Alma Mater, and kind regard to its honored President, I am,

The gift was accepted on behalf of the Visitors by Dr. Alderman as follows:

The fall meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University occurred here on November 26th. I had the honor of presenting your letter of last July, in which you so generously and graciously give to the permanent endowment fund of the University the Libert Bond # 665635. The Rector and Visitors directed me to extend to you their very grateful thanks and appreciation of this splendid action, and to assure you of their purpose to use this money in the permanent endowment of the University for the best interests of the Institution. I must again express my appreciation of the peculiarly handsome way in which you have done this good deed.

A notice from Mr. Bentley W. Warren, one of the executors of the Arthur W. Austin estate, that the sum of $25,000 will be added to the estate arising from a deposit made by Mr. Austin with the Hospital Life Insurance Company of Boston for the benefit of his daughter, Miss Florence Austin, who died a few weeks since.

A bequest under the will of the late Elizabeth B. White of Baltimore, Maryland, of the sum of $5000 for the establishment of scholarships to be known as the Elizabeth B. Garrett Scholarships. The following is a copy of the letter received from Mr. Garrett:

The will of Elizabeth B. White, who died in Baltimore on November 13th, 1917, provides in paragraph three of item number one that the sum of Five Thousand Dollars be given to the University of Virginia for the establishment of scholarships to be known as the ELIZABETH B. GARRETT SCHOLARSHIPS.

As executor of her Will I am about to make distribution of this and other bequests and would appreciate word from you as to the willingness of the University to comply with the condition above mentioned and, in the event of their willingness to comply, the exact corporate title of your institution and the names of the proper officers to execute the release which I must secure.

The foregoing gift was accepted in the following resolution:

Be it Resolved by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, THAT the legacy of Elizabeth B. White of $5000 to found the Elizabeth B. Garrett Scholarships at the University of Virginia be and the same is hereby gratefully accepted upon the terms and conditions as set forth in her will.

The final settlement of the bequest of Miss Mary Amelia Smith, of Warrenton, Virginia, by which the University is to receive the sum of $8,256.81 in cash and securities and a small parcel of real estate located in Anniston, Alabama. A full report of this estate is set out later in the minutes of this meeting.

Upon the recommendation of President Alderman the following leaves of absence were granted to the following members of the faculty for the term of the war:

From: Edwin A. Alderman, President, University of Virginia:

To: All Instructors of S.A.T.C. Courses, University of Virginia;

Subject: Special Monthly Tests for Students absent with excuse from the Regular Monthly Tests.

1\. The special tests to be given students absent with excuse from the regular monthly tests at the end of any month will be held during the evening study-hours (7:30 to 9:30 p. m.) of the first three week-days of the month following, according to the following schedule:

2\. Each instructor will hand to Captain Varela on the last afternoon of the month a list of the students absent with excuse from the monthly test in each of his classes, with the hour and day of the special test as scheduled above. Captain Varela will the next morning assign a study-hall., in which the test may be held, and will arrange for the attendance of the students at the scheduled hour.

3\. Conflicts under this schedule can be dure only to sickness. A student having a conflict will take the scheduled special test in the class meeting Monday, Wednesday, Friday. For the Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday class an individual special test will be given at some hour to be agreed on by the instructor and the student.

4\. A student absent without excuse from the regular monthly test shall be graded zero on the test and shall not be allowed to attend the special test.

\[This was an insert in the book\]

From: Edwin A. Alderman, President, University of Virginia;

To: All Instructors of S.A.T.C. Courses, University of Virginia;

Subject: Attendance of Members of S.A.T.C. in Collegiate Classes.

The following plan has been adopted for recording the class-attendance of the Student-Soldiers and of the enrolled Members of the S. A. T. C.:

1\. Each instructor will seat the members of each class in four groups according to companies; i.e.: all men in a given class belonging to Company A will be seated to gether; all men of Companies B, C, and D, respectively, together.

2\. The senior soldier according to age in each group will make an alphabetical list of the group to which he belongs and will report each class-day to the instructor the names of those men in his group absent from the class that day.

3\. The senior soldier of each group will indicate on his daily report to the instructor which absents are due to military duty or to sickness. This information the senior soldier will obatin from the company bulletin for the day.

4\. Of the absences reported on any day by the senior as not due to military detail or to sickness, some may be due to sickness reported after the company bulletin was posted, or to emergency detail. The group-senior will report to the instructor the causes of such absences at the next meeting of the class.

5\. Absences not due to military duty or to sickness will be recorded as unexcused.

6\. Instructors will record as excused absences only those absences reported to them by the senior student of each company-group as due to military detail or to sickness.

7\. The senior student of each company-group in each class will make a weekly report to Captain Varela of the names of those men in his group absent from class without excuse during the week.

8\. This plan becomes effective Tuesday, November 12.

\[This was an insert in the book\]

And for the session 1918-19, Prof. C. W. Paul.

Upon the recommendation of the President the following appointments to the teaching staff of the University were confirmed:

Dr. Gardner L. Carter, to Associate Professor of Chemistry.

Mr. T. F. Ball, to Adjunct Professor of Physics.

Mr. E. T. Boyd, to Adjunct Professor of Law.

Mr. P. F. Brown, to Acting Adjunct Professor of Experimental Engineering.

The President was empowered to make such appointments of instructors and assistants as might be necessary for the session.

Upon the recommendation of Dr. Theodore Hough, with the approval of the President, Dr. Wilmer Baker was promoted to the position of Adjunct Professor of Anatomy at a salary of $1500 per annum.

REPORT OF W. ALLAN PERKINS, ATTORNEY FOR THE UNIVERSITY, OF THE SETTLEMENT OF THE ESTATE OF MISS MARY AMELIA SMITH.

Miss Mary Amelia Smith of Warrenton, Va., departed this life some time during September 1911, leaving a will in which the following provisions appear:

"I hereby place my estate in the hands of the Fidelity and Trust Company of Baltimore, which with concurrance of my hereby appointed Executor, Hon. Eppa Hunton, will proceed at once to make the most profitable investment of such trust, paying to my brothers, Thomas Smith and Frederick Waugh Smith, equal shares of the interest of such trust.

"At the close of the life of either or both of these legatees, each share becomes the absolute property of the University of Virginia under the supervision of the President of the University, to be expended in a permanent tribute to my father, Major-General and Ex-Governor William Smith —; easily recognized, not obscured by a multiplicity of others."

Major Frederick Waugh Smith notified his brother, Col. Thomas Smith, and the University of Virginia that he intended to contest the will on the grounds of the uncertainty of its provisions, but at the same time he made a proposition of compromise.

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors held on the 12th of November 1912, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED: THAT the Board accept the proposition made by Mr. Frederick Waugh Smith, one of the devisees and legatees under the will of Miss Mary Amelia Smith, viz., that he will refrain from his proposed proposed attack upon said will upon condition that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia surrender in absolute right the one-half of the estate passing under said will to said Frederick W. Smith, and that John B. Moon, the attorney for the University, be authorized to carry this agreement into effect. By agreement of the parties interested, however, the provisions of said will may be modified or set aside in whole or in part with a view to carrying out the proposed settlement.

RESOLVED: That this action of the Board is taken through their respect and esteem for Col. Thomas Smith, another legatee and devisee under said will, and their regard for his wishes in the premises.

Pursuant to the terms of this resolution, a contract was entered into on the 20th of November 1912, between the Rector and Visitors, Col. Thomas Smith and Major Frederick Smith, by which all parties renounced the provisions of the will and agreed, first, that said will should be admitted to probate, and that Col. Thomas Smith should qualify as Administrator with the will annexed, Mr. Eppa Hunton having declined to act; and, second, that the entire estate of Miss Smith should be divided into two parts; third, that one of these parts should be turned over to Major Frederick Waugh Smith in fee simple; fourth, that the other half should be held by Col. Thomas Smith in trust, the income thereof to be used by him during his life, and at his death the principal thereof to become the absolute property of the University of Virginia.

In May 1916 I was advised by Mr. J. Donald Richards, of Warrenton, Va., that Col. Smith had never settled his accounts as Administrator or as Trustee, and that as attorney for the bonding company which had become surety upon Col. Smith's bond he was about to institute proceedings against Col. Smith for an account.

Upon investigation it was found that owing to his advanced years Col. Smith had not given any attention to the management of this fund, and it soon became apparent that if anything was to be saved for the University it would be necessary for Col. Smith to be removed and a new Administrator and Trustee appointed in his place.

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors held on the 12th of June 1916, full authority was given me to take such action in the matter as in my opinion might be necessary.

Thereupon, on motion of the surety company, acting with our consent and approval, Col. Smith was removed, and Mr. Walter H. Robertson of Warrenton appointed in his place and stead.

The situation was a delicate one in many respects, and required very careful handling. I found it necessary to associate Mr. George Latham Fletcher, of Warrenton, with me, so that the University might have a representative in Warrenton.

It was impossible to get any statement from Col. Smith and it was necessary to file a bill in Fauquier Circuit Court for the purpose of discovering what the assets of the estate consisted of.

Among other assets we found $7500.00 worth of bonds which were secured by deed of trust upon real estate in the city of Washington. Col. Smith had allowed the interest to accumulate on these bonds, and when we sold the property under the deed of trust there was a loss amounting to $3054.04. Mr. Robertson, as Administrator, has instituted suit against the maker of these bonds for the recovery of this deficiency. Conditions are such that we have little hope of recovery.

Major Frederick Waugh Smith came in and made additional claims against the estate, all of which I am now advised have been satisfactorily disposed of.

The total amount of the estate which will be turned over to the University by Mr. Robertson as Administrator is between $8500.00 and $9000.00. Of this amount some $1500.00 in cash was delivered to E. I. Carruthers, Bursar, on the 25th inst., together with bonds aggregating $4200.00. The remaining securities will be delivered by Mr. Robertson within a few days. As shown by Mr. Robertson's statement filed with Mr. Carruthers, the whole estate consists of money and securities which can be readily turned into cash, with the exception of a piece of real estate in Anniston, Alabama. We are advised that this lot is worth at least $500.00. Mr. Robertson tells me, however, that he is reliably informed that if this lot is properly handled, more than $500.00 may be realized from it. I will recommend that a resolution be adopted at this meeting constituting the Rector and the Chairman of the Executive Committee a special Committee of two, with full power to sell this property, cae being taken to phrase the resolution so that authority will also be given the Rector to convey in case of a sale.

In conclusion I will add that much credit is due both to Mr. Robertson and to Judge Fletcher in saving for the University such of this estate as now remains, for I am confident that had it not been for their efforts practically the whole fund would have been lost.

In connection with the foregoing report the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED: That the report of W. Allan Perkins, Attorney, dealing with the settlement of the estate of Miss Mary Amelia Smith, deceased, presented by him at this meeting, is hereby approved, ratified and confirmed in all respects, and in accordance with the suggestion contained therein the question of the sale of the lot in Anniston, Alabama, is hereby referred to the Rector and the Chairman of the Executive Committee, to whom full authority is hereby given to deal with said lot as to them may seem best - either holding the same or making sale thereof at such price and at such time as they may think desirable; and if sale there of shall be made the Rector is hereby given full authority to execute and deliver a deed conveying said lot.

Mr. Michie moved, and it was adopted, THAT in view of the settlement of the estate of Miss Mary Amelia Smith having been successfuly made at the hands of Messrs. George Latham Fletcher of Warrenton, Virginia, acting for the University at the instance of Mr. W. Allan Perkins, attorney for the University, and Mr. W. Allan Perkins which settlement had consumed much time and attention at the hands of these gentlemen, they be paid the sum of $900 for said services; Mr. Fletcher to receive $600 and Mr. Perkins $300.

The President presented the temporary contract entered into between the University of Virginia and the War Department Committee on Education and Special Training for the establishment at the University of a Students' Army Training Corps on the 16th of September which had been signed by the Rector on behalf of the Board of Visitors. The contract was read and the action of the Rector in signing same was approved and the contract ratified.

REQUEST FOR ASSIGNMENT OF SOLDIERS OF STUDENTS' ARMY TRAINING CORPS, UNITED STATES ARMY

TO

The University of Virginia COLLEGE (UNIVERSITY)

Legal Title

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a corporati

(Name of Institution)

under the laws of the State of Virginia hereby requests the

War Department of the United Stated to assign to the institution

(Estimated number in S. A. T. C. Unit

1000 - 1500 soldiers of the United States Army, members of the Students' Army Training Corps, on the following conditions:

1\. Eligible students are to be inducted into the United States Army on their voluntary application, on or about October 1, 1918, and are forthwith to be assigned on active duty at the institution.

2\. The institution will after the assignment of such soldiers:

(a) Furnish such academic instruction to the said soldiers as may be approved or prescribed by the War Department, it being understood that until the War Department otherwise indicates, the regular curriculum shall be deemed approved;

(b) Will provide for the proper and sanitary housing of said soldiers in as large groups as reasonable possible;

(c) Will provide meals for the said soldiers of a quantity and quality equivalent to the standard Army ration, and under proper sanitary conditions;

(d) Will provide suitable and adequate grounds for military instruction and drill of the soldiers, and suitable offices for the military administration of the unit;

(e) Will co-operate closely with the War Department and its authorized representatives in all matters above referred to;

(f) Will receive from its students who are eligible for the Students' Army Training Corps and indicate their intention of applying for inducation therein, only such proportion of the usual tuition and other fees as will cover the period from the opening of the college year to October 1, 1918, or, if more has already been received, will make individual adjustment with the students accordingly.

3\. The War Department will:

(a) Provide for the military instruction of the soldiers;

(b) Provide uniforms and the necessary personal equipment of the soldiers to the extent practicable;

(c) Furnish necessary cots, blankets, and bed-sacks or mattresses to the extent practicable;

(d) Pay to the institution as soon as practicable, after submission of duly executed vouchers, the sum of one dollar ($1.00) per day for each soldier assigned to the institution on active duty plus the sum of 52 cents (See NOTE) per day for each soldier so assigned, for tuition, making a total of one dollar and \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ cents per day per soldier. The first voucher submitted will cover the period of two weeks following the induction of the soldiers and their assignment to active duty, and will be submitted monthly thereafter.

4\. It is understood that the arrangement evidenced hereby shall be temporary and that as soon as practicable a permanent contract shall be made between the institution and the War Department, covering the period to July 1, 1919. The basis of that contract with respect to payment shall be reimbursement for the actual and necessary costs of providing the instruction, subsistence and housing required during the entire period of the contractual relation with the War Department, the necessary adjustments to be made accordingly, provided that the per diem allowance to be made for cost of academic instruction shall not exceed the regular per diem tuition charge of the institution.

5\. The institution and the War Department will co-operate to the fullest extent to obtain the best results, and will endeavor as soon as practicable to arrive at the said permanent contract on an equitable financial basis, in accordance with the principle of reimbursement for actual costs as above stated.

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

Name of Institution

Witness:

By R. Tate Irvine, Pector

Roberta N. Irvine

Accepted Grenville Clark, Lt. Col, U. S. A. Secy.

Witness:

Secretary of War Department Committee on Education and Special Training.

NOTE: Insert at this point a number of cents equal to the yearly tuition fee of the institution (or department thereof) in the college year of 1917-1918 divided by 270; e.g. on an average yearly tuition fee of $100.00 the amount is 100 ÷ 270 = .3703 cents.

In connection with the payment to holders of the Ryan and other scholarships of the emoluments as fixed in each case, the President stated that upon the establishment of the S. A. T. C. Unit he instructed the Bursar to withhold the payment to such men as were accepted in said unit, but now that demobilization will soon take place asked for an option as to whether or not the holders should be paid emoluments for the full session, and it was the concensus of opinion that the Bursar should be instructed to pay the full emolument.

The following communication was received from the Charlottesville and Albemarle Railway Company asking for permission to construct a loop in its track on the grounds of the University near the C. & O. Bridge on Rugby Road:

On November 18th, 1910 you kindly granted permission to the Charlottesville and Albemarle Railway Company, of Charlottesville, Virginia, a corporation duly chartered under the laws of the State of Virginia, to lay its track along the terrace west of what is known as Rugby Road, from the Ivy Road on the South to the C. & O. overhead bridge on the North, distance of 1050 feet: to be laid under the general supervision and direction of the President and Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings of the University of Virginia, and the Chairman of the Executive Committee of our Board, with the condition that the track and works of the company be removed at their own expense on 60 days notice from the Board, at the pleasure of the Board.

On account of the use of the Modern Single End One Man cars it became necessary to operate a turntable at the C. & O. bridge on Rugby Road in order to turn car for return trip, this requires the services of two men and is very troublesome and expensive, especially in Winter when it freezes, interfering with the service.

We will greatly appreciate it if your Board will grant us permission to remove the turntable and replace with a loop at end of line, under the same conditions hereinbefore mentioned.

A committee consisting of the Hon. E. G. Haden, Mayor of Charlottesville, Mr. John L. Livers, Vice-President of the C. & A. Railway Company, and Dr. W. M. Forrest, a resident of the section affected by the operation of the railway line at this point, was heard asking that said privilege be granted. The Mayor presented a copy of resolution adopted by the Council of the City of Charlottesville requesting the Rector and Visitors to allow the C. & A. Ry. Company to lay said loop.

The matter was disposed of with the following resolution being unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED: That the Rector be authorized to enter into a contract with the C. & A. Ry. Co. for construction of a loop in its railway track on the grounds of the University, to be located near the bridge on Pugby Road, on such terms and conditions as may seem proper.

The President brought to the Board's attention the matter of furniture rented for the University dormitories while used as barracks and also the method to be adopted in furnishing them for the remainder of the session. The matter was referred to the following committee with power to act: the President, Mr. Michie, Prof. Newcomb, Dr. Lambeth, and the Bursar.

Upon request of the President an appropriation of $120.95 was made to cover renewal of the cooking range and certain plumbing repairs at the President's residence.

Prof. J. L. Newcomb, supervisor of Section B, S. A. T. C., presented in person the financial and statistical reports of said section and asked for instructions as to filing the usual monthly voucher for November, whereupon the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, That the usual monthly voucher covering housing, subsistence, and education for Section B, S.A.T.C. of the University of Virginia be submitted to the committee on Education and Special Training for the month of November, 1918., and with it a statement be submitted by Professor J. L. Newcomb, Director of said Unit, that he is ready for an accounting for Section B, with the further statement that the Board of Visitors regard Section A and B as integral parts of one general transaction.

The Bursar submitted a number of financial reports from his office, which were read and considered, among which was one showing excesses and deficiencies in the appropriation budget for 1917-18, as spread below, and requested that appropriations be made from the unexpended balances to cover the deficiencies in order that his accounts be properly cleared for the year, which was adopted.

Report of the Bursar Showing Excess Appropriations and Excess Expenditures for the Fiscal Year 1917-18 as per the Budget and Annual Report for said Year

Appropriations in excess of actual expenditures.

Deficiency Appropriations Requested for Year 1917-18.

The Bursar presented the following communication from the State Accountant's Office showing that his books and accounts had been audited for the fiscal year ending June 30th, 1918:

This is to advise you that my recent examination of your accounts for the fiscal year ended June 30th, 1918, disclosed no irregularities of any kind, but on the other hand, your records were found to be correct.

Analysis of your Income and Expense statements and the General Balance Sheet as of June 30th, 1918 were found to agree with the records as set up in your office.

On behalf of the Beverley Club of Staunton, Va., of which he was a charter member and its first President, in 1890, I have the pleasure of presenting to the University of Virginia an oil portrait of Mr. Armistead C. Gordon, the University's late Rector.

It is requested that this portrait may be hung on the walls of the Colonnade Club.

With great respect,

I beg to acknowledge receipt of your communication of the 19th inst. informing me of the purpose of the Beverley Club, of Staunton, to present to the University of Virginia an oil portrait of the University's late Rector, Hon. Armistead C. Gordon. I note also the request that this portrait be hung on the walls of the Colonnade Club.

I beg to assure you that the University appreciates profoundly this action of kindness and generosity on the part of the Beverley Club. No man in recent times has rendered more important and enduring service to the University than Armistead C. Gordon. He is beloved here both for his personal qualities and for his statesmanlike service to the institution.

I shall report your gift later to the Rector and Visitors of the University, and assure you in advance of the great pleasure which this gift will give them.

As an Alumnus of the University may I ask your kind assistance in placing in the proper hands a small contribution to the Permanent Endowment Fund of the Institution. I enclose for this purpose a Liberty Bond for five hundred dollars and shall be greatly obliged to you for your compliance with my request.

With grateful memories of my Alma Mater, and kind regard to its honored President, I am,

The fall meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University occurred here on November 26th. I had the honor of presenting your letter of last July, in which you so generously and graciously give to the permanent endowment fund of the University the Libert Bond # 665635. The Rector and Visitors directed me to extend to you their very grateful thanks and appreciation of this splendid action, and to assure you of their purpose to use this money in the permanent endowment of the University for the best interests of the Institution. I must again express my appreciation of the peculiarly handsome way in which you have done this good deed.

The will of Elizabeth B. White, who died in Baltimore on November 13th, 1917, provides in paragraph three of item number one that the sum of Five Thousand Dollars be given to the University of Virginia for the establishment of scholarships to be known as the ELIZABETH B. GARRETT SCHOLARSHIPS.

As executor of her Will I am about to make distribution of this and other bequests and would appreciate word from you as to the willingness of the University to comply with the condition above mentioned and, in the event of their willingness to comply, the exact corporate title of your institution and the names of the proper officers to execute the release which I must secure.

Be it Resolved by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, THAT the legacy of Elizabeth B. White of $5000 to found the Elizabeth B. Garrett Scholarships at the University of Virginia be and the same is hereby gratefully accepted upon the terms and conditions as set forth in her will.

Classes scheduled

7:30

to

8:30,

1st day,

7:15

to

8:15 p.m.;

Classes scheduled

8:30

to

9:30

1st day,

8:15

to

9:15 p.m.;

Classes scheduled

9:30

to

10:30

2nd day,

7:15

to

8:15 p.m.;

Classes scheduled

10:30

to

11:30

2nd day,

8:15

to

9:15 p.m.;

Classes scheduled

11:30

to

12:30

3rd day,

7:15

to

8:15 p.m.;

Classes scheduled

1:30

to

3:30

3rd day,

8:15

to

9:15 p.m.;

From: Edwin A. Alderman, President, University of Virginia:

To: All Instructors of S.A.T.C. Courses, University of Virginia;

Subject: Special Monthly Tests for Students absent with excuse from the Regular Monthly Tests.

1\. The special tests to be given students absent with excuse from the regular monthly tests at the end of any month will be held during the evening study-hours (7:30 to 9:30 p. m.) of the first three week-days of the month following, according to the following schedule:

2\. Each instructor will hand to Captain Varela on the last afternoon of the month a list of the students absent with excuse from the monthly test in each of his classes, with the hour and day of the special test as scheduled above. Captain Varela will the next morning assign a study-hall., in which the test may be held, and will arrange for the attendance of the students at the scheduled hour.

3\. Conflicts under this schedule can be dure only to sickness. A student having a conflict will take the scheduled special test in the class meeting Monday, Wednesday, Friday. For the Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday class an individual special test will be given at some hour to be agreed on by the instructor and the student.

4\. A student absent without excuse from the regular monthly test shall be graded zero on the test and shall not be allowed to attend the special test.

From: Edwin A. Alderman, President, University of Virginia;

To: All Instructors of S.A.T.C. Courses, University of Virginia;

Subject: Attendance of Members of S.A.T.C. in Collegiate Classes.

The following plan has been adopted for recording the class-attendance of the Student-Soldiers and of the enrolled Members of the S. A. T. C.:

1\. Each instructor will seat the members of each class in four groups according to companies; i.e.: all men in a given class belonging to Company A will be seated to gether; all men of Companies B, C, and D, respectively, together.

2\. The senior soldier according to age in each group will make an alphabetical list of the group to which he belongs and will report each class-day to the instructor the names of those men in his group absent from the class that day.

3\. The senior soldier of each group will indicate on his daily report to the instructor which absents are due to military duty or to sickness. This information the senior soldier will obatin from the company bulletin for the day.

4\. Of the absences reported on any day by the senior as not due to military detail or to sickness, some may be due to sickness reported after the company bulletin was posted, or to emergency detail. The group-senior will report to the instructor the causes of such absences at the next meeting of the class.

5\. Absences not due to military duty or to sickness will be recorded as unexcused.

6\. Instructors will record as excused absences only those absences reported to them by the senior student of each company-group as due to military detail or to sickness.

7\. The senior student of each company-group in each class will make a weekly report to Captain Varela of the names of those men in his group absent from class without excuse during the week.

8\. This plan becomes effective Tuesday, November 12.

Miss Mary Amelia Smith of Warrenton, Va., departed this life some time during September 1911, leaving a will in which the following provisions appear:

"I hereby place my estate in the hands of the Fidelity and Trust Company of Baltimore, which with concurrance of my hereby appointed Executor, Hon. Eppa Hunton, will proceed at once to make the most profitable investment of such trust, paying to my brothers, Thomas Smith and Frederick Waugh Smith, equal shares of the interest of such trust.

"At the close of the life of either or both of these legatees, each share becomes the absolute property of the University of Virginia under the supervision of the President of the University, to be expended in a permanent tribute to my father, Major-General and Ex-Governor William Smith —; easily recognized, not obscured by a multiplicity of others."

Major Frederick Waugh Smith notified his brother, Col. Thomas Smith, and the University of Virginia that he intended to contest the will on the grounds of the uncertainty of its provisions, but at the same time he made a proposition of compromise.

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors held on the 12th of November 1912, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED: THAT the Board accept the proposition made by Mr. Frederick Waugh Smith, one of the devisees and legatees under the will of Miss Mary Amelia Smith, viz., that he will refrain from his proposed proposed attack upon said will upon condition that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia surrender in absolute right the one-half of the estate passing under said will to said Frederick W. Smith, and that John B. Moon, the attorney for the University, be authorized to carry this agreement into effect. By agreement of the parties interested, however, the provisions of said will may be modified or set aside in whole or in part with a view to carrying out the proposed settlement.

RESOLVED: That this action of the Board is taken through their respect and esteem for Col. Thomas Smith, another legatee and devisee under said will, and their regard for his wishes in the premises.

Pursuant to the terms of this resolution, a contract was entered into on the 20th of November 1912, between the Rector and Visitors, Col. Thomas Smith and Major Frederick Smith, by which all parties renounced the provisions of the will and agreed, first, that said will should be admitted to probate, and that Col. Thomas Smith should qualify as Administrator with the will annexed, Mr. Eppa Hunton having declined to act; and, second, that the entire estate of Miss Smith should be divided into two parts; third, that one of these parts should be turned over to Major Frederick Waugh Smith in fee simple; fourth, that the other half should be held by Col. Thomas Smith in trust, the income thereof to be used by him during his life, and at his death the principal thereof to become the absolute property of the University of Virginia.

In May 1916 I was advised by Mr. J. Donald Richards, of Warrenton, Va., that Col. Smith had never settled his accounts as Administrator or as Trustee, and that as attorney for the bonding company which had become surety upon Col. Smith's bond he was about to institute proceedings against Col. Smith for an account.

Upon investigation it was found that owing to his advanced years Col. Smith had not given any attention to the management of this fund, and it soon became apparent that if anything was to be saved for the University it would be necessary for Col. Smith to be removed and a new Administrator and Trustee appointed in his place.

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors held on the 12th of June 1916, full authority was given me to take such action in the matter as in my opinion might be necessary.

Thereupon, on motion of the surety company, acting with our consent and approval, Col. Smith was removed, and Mr. Walter H. Robertson of Warrenton appointed in his place and stead.

The situation was a delicate one in many respects, and required very careful handling. I found it necessary to associate Mr. George Latham Fletcher, of Warrenton, with me, so that the University might have a representative in Warrenton.

It was impossible to get any statement from Col. Smith and it was necessary to file a bill in Fauquier Circuit Court for the purpose of discovering what the assets of the estate consisted of.

Among other assets we found $7500.00 worth of bonds which were secured by deed of trust upon real estate in the city of Washington. Col. Smith had allowed the interest to accumulate on these bonds, and when we sold the property under the deed of trust there was a loss amounting to $3054.04. Mr. Robertson, as Administrator, has instituted suit against the maker of these bonds for the recovery of this deficiency. Conditions are such that we have little hope of recovery.

Major Frederick Waugh Smith came in and made additional claims against the estate, all of which I am now advised have been satisfactorily disposed of.

The total amount of the estate which will be turned over to the University by Mr. Robertson as Administrator is between $8500.00 and $9000.00. Of this amount some $1500.00 in cash was delivered to E. I. Carruthers, Bursar, on the 25th inst., together with bonds aggregating $4200.00. The remaining securities will be delivered by Mr. Robertson within a few days. As shown by Mr. Robertson's statement filed with Mr. Carruthers, the whole estate consists of money and securities which can be readily turned into cash, with the exception of a piece of real estate in Anniston, Alabama. We are advised that this lot is worth at least $500.00. Mr. Robertson tells me, however, that he is reliably informed that if this lot is properly handled, more than $500.00 may be realized from it. I will recommend that a resolution be adopted at this meeting constituting the Rector and the Chairman of the Executive Committee a special Committee of two, with full power to sell this property, cae being taken to phrase the resolution so that authority will also be given the Rector to convey in case of a sale.

In conclusion I will add that much credit is due both to Mr. Robertson and to Judge Fletcher in saving for the University such of this estate as now remains, for I am confident that had it not been for their efforts practically the whole fund would have been lost.

On November 18th, 1910 you kindly granted permission to the Charlottesville and Albemarle Railway Company, of Charlottesville, Virginia, a corporation duly chartered under the laws of the State of Virginia, to lay its track along the terrace west of what is known as Rugby Road, from the Ivy Road on the South to the C. & O. overhead bridge on the North, distance of 1050 feet: to be laid under the general supervision and direction of the President and Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings of the University of Virginia, and the Chairman of the Executive Committee of our Board, with the condition that the track and works of the company be removed at their own expense on 60 days notice from the Board, at the pleasure of the Board.

On account of the use of the Modern Single End One Man cars it became necessary to operate a turntable at the C. & O. bridge on Rugby Road in order to turn car for return trip, this requires the services of two men and is very troublesome and expensive, especially in Winter when it freezes, interfering with the service.

We will greatly appreciate it if your Board will grant us permission to remove the turntable and replace with a loop at end of line, under the same conditions hereinbefore mentioned.

This is to advise you that my recent examination of your accounts for the fiscal year ended June 30th, 1918, disclosed no irregularities of any kind, but on the other hand, your records were found to be correct.

Analysis of your Income and Expense statements and the General Balance Sheet as of June 30th, 1918 were found to agree with the records as set up in your office.

On behalf of the Beverley Club of Staunton, Va., of which he was a charter member and its first President, in 1890, I have the pleasure of presenting to the University of Virginia an oil portrait of Mr. Armistead C. Gordon, the University's late Rector.

It is requested that this portrait may be hung on the walls of the Colonnade Club.

With great respect,

I beg to acknowledge receipt of your communication of the 19th inst. informing me of the purpose of the Beverley Club, of Staunton, to present to the University of Virginia an oil portrait of the University's late Rector, Hon. Armistead C. Gordon. I note also the request that this portrait be hung on the walls of the Colonnade Club.

I beg to assure you that the University appreciates profoundly this action of kindness and generosity on the part of the Beverley Club. No man in recent times has rendered more important and enduring service to the University than Armistead C. Gordon. He is beloved here both for his personal qualities and for his statesmanlike service to the institution.

I shall report your gift later to the Rector and Visitors of the University, and assure you in advance of the great pleasure which this gift will give them.

As an Alumnus of the University may I ask your kind assistance in placing in the proper hands a small contribution to the Permanent Endowment Fund of the Institution. I enclose for this purpose a Liberty Bond for five hundred dollars and shall be greatly obliged to you for your compliance with my request.

With grateful memories of my Alma Mater, and kind regard to its honored President, I am,

The fall meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University occurred here on November 26th. I had the honor of presenting your letter of last July, in which you so generously and graciously give to the permanent endowment fund of the University the Libert Bond # 665635. The Rector and Visitors directed me to extend to you their very grateful thanks and appreciation of this splendid action, and to assure you of their purpose to use this money in the permanent endowment of the University for the best interests of the Institution. I must again express my appreciation of the peculiarly handsome way in which you have done this good deed.

The will of Elizabeth B. White, who died in Baltimore on November 13th, 1917, provides in paragraph three of item number one that the sum of Five Thousand Dollars be given to the University of Virginia for the establishment of scholarships to be known as the ELIZABETH B. GARRETT SCHOLARSHIPS.

As executor of her Will I am about to make distribution of this and other bequests and would appreciate word from you as to the willingness of the University to comply with the condition above mentioned and, in the event of their willingness to comply, the exact corporate title of your institution and the names of the proper officers to execute the release which I must secure.

Be it Resolved by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, THAT the legacy of Elizabeth B. White of $5000 to found the Elizabeth B. Garrett Scholarships at the University of Virginia be and the same is hereby gratefully accepted upon the terms and conditions as set forth in her will.

Classes scheduled

7:30

to

8:30,

1st day,

7:15

to

8:15 p.m.;

Classes scheduled

8:30

to

9:30

1st day,

8:15

to

9:15 p.m.;

Classes scheduled

9:30

to

10:30

2nd day,

7:15

to

8:15 p.m.;

Classes scheduled

10:30

to

11:30

2nd day,

8:15

to

9:15 p.m.;

Classes scheduled

11:30

to

12:30

3rd day,

7:15

to

8:15 p.m.;

Classes scheduled

1:30

to

3:30

3rd day,

8:15

to

9:15 p.m.;

From: Edwin A. Alderman, President, University of Virginia:

To: All Instructors of S.A.T.C. Courses, University of Virginia;

Subject: Special Monthly Tests for Students absent with excuse from the Regular Monthly Tests.

1\. The special tests to be given students absent with excuse from the regular monthly tests at the end of any month will be held during the evening study-hours (7:30 to 9:30 p. m.) of the first three week-days of the month following, according to the following schedule:

2\. Each instructor will hand to Captain Varela on the last afternoon of the month a list of the students absent with excuse from the monthly test in each of his classes, with the hour and day of the special test as scheduled above. Captain Varela will the next morning assign a study-hall., in which the test may be held, and will arrange for the attendance of the students at the scheduled hour.

3\. Conflicts under this schedule can be dure only to sickness. A student having a conflict will take the scheduled special test in the class meeting Monday, Wednesday, Friday. For the Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday class an individual special test will be given at some hour to be agreed on by the instructor and the student.

4\. A student absent without excuse from the regular monthly test shall be graded zero on the test and shall not be allowed to attend the special test.

From: Edwin A. Alderman, President, University of Virginia;

To: All Instructors of S.A.T.C. Courses, University of Virginia;

Subject: Attendance of Members of S.A.T.C. in Collegiate Classes.

The following plan has been adopted for recording the class-attendance of the Student-Soldiers and of the enrolled Members of the S. A. T. C.:

1\. Each instructor will seat the members of each class in four groups according to companies; i.e.: all men in a given class belonging to Company A will be seated to gether; all men of Companies B, C, and D, respectively, together.

2\. The senior soldier according to age in each group will make an alphabetical list of the group to which he belongs and will report each class-day to the instructor the names of those men in his group absent from the class that day.

3\. The senior soldier of each group will indicate on his daily report to the instructor which absents are due to military duty or to sickness. This information the senior soldier will obatin from the company bulletin for the day.

4\. Of the absences reported on any day by the senior as not due to military detail or to sickness, some may be due to sickness reported after the company bulletin was posted, or to emergency detail. The group-senior will report to the instructor the causes of such absences at the next meeting of the class.

5\. Absences not due to military duty or to sickness will be recorded as unexcused.

6\. Instructors will record as excused absences only those absences reported to them by the senior student of each company-group as due to military detail or to sickness.

7\. The senior student of each company-group in each class will make a weekly report to Captain Varela of the names of those men in his group absent from class without excuse during the week.

8\. This plan becomes effective Tuesday, November 12.

Miss Mary Amelia Smith of Warrenton, Va., departed this life some time during September 1911, leaving a will in which the following provisions appear:

"I hereby place my estate in the hands of the Fidelity and Trust Company of Baltimore, which with concurrance of my hereby appointed Executor, Hon. Eppa Hunton, will proceed at once to make the most profitable investment of such trust, paying to my brothers, Thomas Smith and Frederick Waugh Smith, equal shares of the interest of such trust.

"At the close of the life of either or both of these legatees, each share becomes the absolute property of the University of Virginia under the supervision of the President of the University, to be expended in a permanent tribute to my father, Major-General and Ex-Governor William Smith —; easily recognized, not obscured by a multiplicity of others."

Major Frederick Waugh Smith notified his brother, Col. Thomas Smith, and the University of Virginia that he intended to contest the will on the grounds of the uncertainty of its provisions, but at the same time he made a proposition of compromise.

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors held on the 12th of November 1912, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED: THAT the Board accept the proposition made by Mr. Frederick Waugh Smith, one of the devisees and legatees under the will of Miss Mary Amelia Smith, viz., that he will refrain from his proposed proposed attack upon said will upon condition that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia surrender in absolute right the one-half of the estate passing under said will to said Frederick W. Smith, and that John B. Moon, the attorney for the University, be authorized to carry this agreement into effect. By agreement of the parties interested, however, the provisions of said will may be modified or set aside in whole or in part with a view to carrying out the proposed settlement.

RESOLVED: That this action of the Board is taken through their respect and esteem for Col. Thomas Smith, another legatee and devisee under said will, and their regard for his wishes in the premises.

Pursuant to the terms of this resolution, a contract was entered into on the 20th of November 1912, between the Rector and Visitors, Col. Thomas Smith and Major Frederick Smith, by which all parties renounced the provisions of the will and agreed, first, that said will should be admitted to probate, and that Col. Thomas Smith should qualify as Administrator with the will annexed, Mr. Eppa Hunton having declined to act; and, second, that the entire estate of Miss Smith should be divided into two parts; third, that one of these parts should be turned over to Major Frederick Waugh Smith in fee simple; fourth, that the other half should be held by Col. Thomas Smith in trust, the income thereof to be used by him during his life, and at his death the principal thereof to become the absolute property of the University of Virginia.

In May 1916 I was advised by Mr. J. Donald Richards, of Warrenton, Va., that Col. Smith had never settled his accounts as Administrator or as Trustee, and that as attorney for the bonding company which had become surety upon Col. Smith's bond he was about to institute proceedings against Col. Smith for an account.

Upon investigation it was found that owing to his advanced years Col. Smith had not given any attention to the management of this fund, and it soon became apparent that if anything was to be saved for the University it would be necessary for Col. Smith to be removed and a new Administrator and Trustee appointed in his place.

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors held on the 12th of June 1916, full authority was given me to take such action in the matter as in my opinion might be necessary.

Thereupon, on motion of the surety company, acting with our consent and approval, Col. Smith was removed, and Mr. Walter H. Robertson of Warrenton appointed in his place and stead.

The situation was a delicate one in many respects, and required very careful handling. I found it necessary to associate Mr. George Latham Fletcher, of Warrenton, with me, so that the University might have a representative in Warrenton.

It was impossible to get any statement from Col. Smith and it was necessary to file a bill in Fauquier Circuit Court for the purpose of discovering what the assets of the estate consisted of.

Among other assets we found $7500.00 worth of bonds which were secured by deed of trust upon real estate in the city of Washington. Col. Smith had allowed the interest to accumulate on these bonds, and when we sold the property under the deed of trust there was a loss amounting to $3054.04. Mr. Robertson, as Administrator, has instituted suit against the maker of these bonds for the recovery of this deficiency. Conditions are such that we have little hope of recovery.

Major Frederick Waugh Smith came in and made additional claims against the estate, all of which I am now advised have been satisfactorily disposed of.

The total amount of the estate which will be turned over to the University by Mr. Robertson as Administrator is between $8500.00 and $9000.00. Of this amount some $1500.00 in cash was delivered to E. I. Carruthers, Bursar, on the 25th inst., together with bonds aggregating $4200.00. The remaining securities will be delivered by Mr. Robertson within a few days. As shown by Mr. Robertson's statement filed with Mr. Carruthers, the whole estate consists of money and securities which can be readily turned into cash, with the exception of a piece of real estate in Anniston, Alabama. We are advised that this lot is worth at least $500.00. Mr. Robertson tells me, however, that he is reliably informed that if this lot is properly handled, more than $500.00 may be realized from it. I will recommend that a resolution be adopted at this meeting constituting the Rector and the Chairman of the Executive Committee a special Committee of two, with full power to sell this property, cae being taken to phrase the resolution so that authority will also be given the Rector to convey in case of a sale.

In conclusion I will add that much credit is due both to Mr. Robertson and to Judge Fletcher in saving for the University such of this estate as now remains, for I am confident that had it not been for their efforts practically the whole fund would have been lost.

On November 18th, 1910 you kindly granted permission to the Charlottesville and Albemarle Railway Company, of Charlottesville, Virginia, a corporation duly chartered under the laws of the State of Virginia, to lay its track along the terrace west of what is known as Rugby Road, from the Ivy Road on the South to the C. & O. overhead bridge on the North, distance of 1050 feet: to be laid under the general supervision and direction of the President and Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings of the University of Virginia, and the Chairman of the Executive Committee of our Board, with the condition that the track and works of the company be removed at their own expense on 60 days notice from the Board, at the pleasure of the Board.

On account of the use of the Modern Single End One Man cars it became necessary to operate a turntable at the C. & O. bridge on Rugby Road in order to turn car for return trip, this requires the services of two men and is very troublesome and expensive, especially in Winter when it freezes, interfering with the service.

We will greatly appreciate it if your Board will grant us permission to remove the turntable and replace with a loop at end of line, under the same conditions hereinbefore mentioned.

This is to advise you that my recent examination of your accounts for the fiscal year ended June 30th, 1918, disclosed no irregularities of any kind, but on the other hand, your records were found to be correct.

Analysis of your Income and Expense statements and the General Balance Sheet as of June 30th, 1918 were found to agree with the records as set up in your office.