Board of Visitors minutes (1921) October 4, 1921
================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 4, 1921

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Pursuant to the call of the Governor of Virginia, made under the terms and provisions of the Act of the Legislature of Virginia creating a Commission on Medical Education in Virginia, there was this day held a joint meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the Chairman and Board of Visitors of the Medical College of Virginia, to consider the recommendations of the Commission on Medical Education in Virginia, as set out in its report to the Governor and to the Board of the respective institutions, and to endeavor to agree upon a plan of consolidation.

There were present Rector Bryan and Visitors Dillard, Duke, Greever, Hart, Hatton, Oliver, Robertson, Scott, and Walker and President Alderman of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and Judge George L. Christian, E. L. Bemiss, Dr. J. M. Burke, H. L. Cabell, C. P. Cardwell, Dr. J. B. Fisher, Dr. W. L. Harris, Eppa Hunton, Jr., Dr. Paulus A. Irving, Dr. Stuart McGuire, William R. Miller, Thomas L. Moore, L. Z. Morris, Dr. J. R. Payne, E. D. Taylor, John W. Williams, of the Chairman and Board of Visitors of the Medical College of Virginia.

Mr. John Stewart Bryan was elected chairman of the meeting and Mr. J. R. McCauley, Secretary

Hon. Eppa Hunton, Jr., of the Board of Visitors of the Medical College of Virginia, offered for adoption the majority report of the Commission on Medical Education in Virginia. Mr. E. L. Greever, of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, offered as a substitute the minority report of said commission. Following a discussion of the matter, a vote was taken upon the substitute, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia voting "Aye", and the Chairman and Visitors of the Medical College voting "No", said vote being cast in accordance with the agreement that the respective Boards should vote as units. The substitute being declared lost, the vote was then taken upon the original, the Chairman and Board of Visitors of the Medical College of Virginia voting "Aye", and the Rectorand Visitors of the University of Virginia voting "No". The motion being thereupon declared lost.

The meeting then adjourned.

Following the foregoing meeting, a meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held to consider what further action was necessary at this time, whereupon the following was unanimously adopted,

WHEREAS, in pursuance of the call of the Governor of Virginia, made under the terms and provisions of an act of the Legislature of Virginia creating a Commission on Medical Education in Virginia, there was this day held a joint meeting of the Board of Visitors of the Medical College of Virginia with the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia to consider the recommendations of the Commission on Medical Education in Virginia as set out in its report to the Governor, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the Chairman and Board of Visitors of the Medical College of Virginia, and to endeavor to agree upon a plan of consolidation; and whereas no agreement was reached between the Boards of Visitors of the two institutions;

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, That the Rector of the University of Virginia be requested and Directed to advise the Governor of Virginia that the Boards of the two institutions were unable to reach an agreement upon a plan of consolidation and to transmit to the Governor a copy of this resolution.

The meeting then adjourned.