Board of Visitors minutes (1921) June 23, 1921
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 23, 1921

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

(1) FINANCIAL(2) ATTENDANCE. COST TO THE STUDENTS (4) FUTURE OUTLOOK
--------------------------------------------------------------------

RECEIPTS

Cash Receipts

$53,662.39

Allowance for Heating Art Laboratory and Kimball Residence from the Cafeteria

285.47

Inventory of Provisions, June 4, 1921

802.22

54,750.08

EXPENDITURES.

Provisions, Labor, Salary of Manager, etc.

47,818.85

Estimate of unpaid bills for the session

1,000.00

Amount expended for alterations in building & for equipment needed to begin operations

2,975.37

Total Expenditures

$51,794.22

Balance Surplus

2,955.86

A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date with the following members present: Rector John Stewart Bryan and Visitors Dillard, Duke, Greever, Hatton, Oliver, Scott and Walker and President Alderman.

Minutes of the previous meeting which had been copied and sent to each member were approved.

The special matter of business before the meeting was to give consideration to the question of consolidating the Medical Department of the University of Virginia with the Medical College of Virginia and the location thereof. After a very full discussion of the questions at issue the following resolutions were adopted by the vote of 7 to 1 as follows: Ayes; Bryan, Dillard, Duke, Greever, Hatton, Oliver and Walker. No; Mr. Scott.

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia having given careful consideration to the facts and arguments laid before them in the reports of the Medical Commission and in the light of the testimony of the experts consulted by the Commission and the date and conditions existing today have resolved in the interests of the entire State of Virginia and especially of the Institution entrusted to their charge, and, as well, the promotion of the best type of medical education in the Commonwealth and the country.

(1) That there should be but one state-supported Medical School in Virginia and that it should be under the control and direction of the constituted authorities of the University of Virginia and that it should be under the control and direction of the constituted authorities of the University of Virginia, and be known as the Medical Department of the University of Virginia;

(2) That dentistry and Pharmacy should be cared for adequately as departments of this institution;

(3) That the location of this school should, for reasons of sound educational policy as shown by the opinions of the greatest medical education experts, continue to be within the limits of the University of Virginia, its natural and logical home.

Mr. Scott stated in explanation of his vote in opposition to the resolution that while he approved and supported the continuation of the Medical Department of the University of Virginia on the grounds of the University, he felt that the resolutions as drawn might be construed as a request to the Legislature to withdraw all appropriations from the Medical College of Virginia and furthermore, he desired to see the continuation of both medical schools.

Mr. Robertson, being unable to attend the meeting, sent to the Secretary a paper setting forth his views in the matter which were in favor of the location of the consolidated departments at the University of Virginia.

The President submitted the following report from Prof. J. L. Newcomb, chairman of the University Cafeteria Committee with respect to the operation of the University Cafeteria for the past session.

I beg leave to submit a condensed statement of the operation of the University Cafeteria from its establishment on September 17, 1920 to the close of business for the regular session on June 4, 1921, as follows:

The item of $2,975.37 for alterations in building, and equipment necessary to begin operations represents a capital outlay and, under a strict system of accounting, should not be charged to operation. An appropriation of $3,000.00 to cover this item was carried on the University budget for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1921. We have, however, included it under operating expenses of the Cafeteria and because of its inclusion here the deficit in the budget for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1921 will be reduced by this amount.

During the first week of its operation we served an average of 439 meals per day as compared with an average of 880 meals per day during the last week of operation. This increase of one hundred per cent in attendance attests its popularity with the students of our regular session.

On yesterday, which was the third day of the Summer School, we served 1180 meals.

The average cost to the student per meal served throughout the regular session has been $0.298 which corresponds to a monthly rate of $26.82. This monthly rate of $26.82 is in excess of the average cost to a student taking all three meals a day in the Cafeteria because an appreciable per centage of our boarders took their heaviest meal only at the Cafeteria.

A record of the actual cost to a small group of students working in the Cafeteria and taking their meals at regular rates shows an average monthly cost to them of $22.50

The Cafeteria is justly popular because it furnishes the best food procurable at actual cost to the students of the University and thereby satisfies a longfelt need in our life. It is my considered judgment that we will be running at absolutely full capacity next session and the number of boarders will steadily increase. You are in a better position than I am to pass judgment on the relative urgency of the needs of the University of Virginia; but it is my duty to express to you my genuine conviction that $75,000.00 to double the present floor space and equipment will be urgently needed prior to the meeting of the General Assembly of Virginia in January, 1924.

The situation will be rendered even more acute if additional dormitories are erected on the University grounds. No greater service could be rendered our students in the future than by providing additional university dormitories and additional cafeteria space.

I cannot close this statement without adding a word of just tribute to our present cafeteria manager, Mrs. Josie W. Rodes, whose unselfish devotion, whose untiring energy, and unbounded enthusiasm has made possible the successful operation of the University Cafeteria.

You will be pleased to know that she has contracted to continue as manager until August 31, 1922.

The following resolution was then adopted:

RESOLVED: That Professor J. L. Newcomb be allowed an honorarium of $1,000.00 to be paid out of the surplus arising from the operation of the Cafeteria for the session 1920-21 and that the President be requested to communicate to him the appreciation of his services by the Rector and Visitors.

I was directed at a meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University, held on Thursday, June 23rd, to communicate to you an expression of their very high appreciation of your valuable services in connection with the building, management, and successful development of the Cafeteria at the University. They requested me to say that they are not unindful of your long services in this field, extending over a number of years, and that they are particularly struck with the excellence of your management this year exhibiting so handsome a surplus. In substantial appreciation of this fact, they are offering you an honorarium which the Secretary of the Board of Visitors will duly communicate to you.

Assuring you of my sympathy with this action and of my appreciation of your effective service in this field, I am,

On motion, the meeting then adjourned.

I was directed at a meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University, held on Thursday, June 23rd, to communicate to you an expression of their very high appreciation of your valuable services in connection with the building, management, and successful development of the Cafeteria at the University. They requested me to say that they are not unindful of your long services in this field, extending over a number of years, and that they are particularly struck with the excellence of your management this year exhibiting so handsome a surplus. In substantial appreciation of this fact, they are offering you an honorarium which the Secretary of the Board of Visitors will duly communicate to you.

Assuring you of my sympathy with this action and of my appreciation of your effective service in this field, I am,

I was directed at a meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University, held on Thursday, June 23rd, to communicate to you an expression of their very high appreciation of your valuable services in connection with the building, management, and successful development of the Cafeteria at the University. They requested me to say that they are not unindful of your long services in this field, extending over a number of years, and that they are particularly struck with the excellence of your management this year exhibiting so handsome a surplus. In substantial appreciation of this fact, they are offering you an honorarium which the Secretary of the Board of Visitors will duly communicate to you.

Assuring you of my sympathy with this action and of my appreciation of your effective service in this field, I am,