Board of Visitors minutes (1932) December 29, 1932
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

December 29, 1932

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

1 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 7:30 o'clock P. M., at the home of the Rector.

There were present the Rector, Fred W. Scott, and Visitors, Garnett, Munford, McIntire, Stuart, Rinehart, Walker, L. C. Williams, R. Gray Williams and S. B. Hall, and Acting President Newcomb.

The purpose of the meeting was for consideration of the University's budget for 1933-34 in view of the additional cut of 10% in the State Appropriation recently announced by the Governor. After consideration of its effect upon the budget of the University, the following motion was adopted:

WHEREAS the Governor of Virginia has found it necessary, in order to balance the State budget, to order another 10% cut in State appropriations to all institutions and agencies of State Government; and,

WHEREAS the income from the private endowment of the University has suffered further reduction since the last budget meeting of the Board,

THEREFORE, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, with deep regret, find it necessary, in order to maintain a balanced University budget, to pass the following resolution

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that the compensation paid to all employees of the University, who are being paid at the rate of $1,000 per annum or in excess thereof, shall be reduced by 5% of the amount of such compensation in effect on January 1, 1932. This reduction shall apply to all payments made after January 1, 1933.

The meeting then adjourned.