Board of Visitors minutes (1933) September 26, 1933
===================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

September 26, 1933

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

2 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

1934-35

1935-36

Medicine

$ 15,000

$ 15,000

Natural Sciences

15,000

25,000

Humanities

21,000

31,000

Social Sciences

20,000

25,000

Education

8,000

8,000

Hospital

$ 25,000

25,000

Extension

15,000

15,000

Library

12,500

12,500

Other Schools

24,000

24,000

Total

$ 155,500

$ 180,500

A called meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held in Richmond for the purpose of giving consideration to the requests to be made of the State for support of the University for the bi-ennium of 1934-36, and to present the same to the Governor and Budget Commission on the morning of the 27th of September.

There were present Visitors Garnett, Hall, Rinehart, L. C. Williams, R. Gray Williams and Stuart, and Acting President Newcomb.

The meeting was held at the Hotel John Marshall at 8 o'clock. Acting President Newcomb presented a list of the departmental needs of the University, and the additional appropriation to be requested of the Budget Commission, as follows:

The meeting then adjourned.