Board of Visitors minutes (1934) November 7, 1934
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

November 7, 1934

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

3 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Gifts:
------

Summer session, 1934

1328 (net)

Extension Division

944

Nurses' Training School

152

Grand total

4795

From the General Education Board, for the maintenance of Mountain Lake Biological Station, 1935

$ 5,000

and for scholarships for Southern Teachers, 1935

1,200

$6,200

From the Carnegie Corporation for an Art Project under the Extension Division

2,000

From the Rockefeller Foundation, to be used toward the salary of Dr. Maximilian Ehrenstein, for 1934-35. Dr. Ehrenstein is doing special research work in the Physiological Laboratory

800

From the New York Academy of Medicine, to Dr. Alfred Chanutin, for experimental study, particularly in an effort to learn more about nephritis, THE EDWARD N. GIBBS MEMORIAL PRIZE, 1934

750

A meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 11 o'clock with Visitors Corbitt, Garnett, Goolrick, Hall, Munford, Rinehart, Stuart, L. C. Williams and R. Gray Williams, and President Newcomb present.

In the absence of the Rector Mr. Hollis Rinehart was elected Rector pro tem.

The minutes of the previous meeting having been copied and mailed to all the members, and found correct, were approved.

The President made the following announcements:

Attendance for the present session to date 2371 being a net increase of 33 over the same date last year.

From Mr. D. N. Heineman, of Brussels, photostat copies of letters - one from Jefferson to Baron von Humboldt, one by Robert E. Lee, and twenty-five letters and documents dealing with family relationships and political environment of Napoleon.

From Mr. Henry C. Lomb, a further gift of valuable books and optical instruments for the Physics Department.

From interested friends, alumni and faculty members, many other valuable and interesting books and pamphlets, to the Departmental and General Library.

Upon the recommendation of the President, the following were voted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia,

That Miss Adelaide A. Mayo, Assistant Professor of Nursing Education, be and she is hereby granted leave of absence without salary for the session of 1934-35.

That the resignation of Dr. Edwin L. McQuade as Associate Professor of Public Health be and the same is hereby accepted with regret.

That the resignation of Mr. Launcelot L. M. Dent as Instructor in the Department of Philosophy be accepted with regret.

That the resignation of Mr. Edward Alvey, Critic Teacher in English, be accepted with regret.

That approval is hereby given the action of the President and his committees, taken during the summer, in making the following appointments:

Miss Myrtle M. Hollo, Acting Assistant Professor of Nursing Education for 1934-35, at a salary of $2125 for the nine months.

Mr. William Stone Weedon, Instructor in Philosophy for the session of 1934-35 at a salary of $1530. Mr. Weedon is taking over the instructorship left vacant by Mr. Dent's resignation.

Mr. Richard A. Meade, Critic Teacher of English in the Secondary School, in the University of Virginia and the Charlottesville City School System, under the joint arrangement, at a salary of $1411.

Upon the recommendation of the President, the following was adopted:

RESOLVED, That Professor Edmund S. Campbell be and he is hereby appointed Curator of the Bayly Art Museum, without salary, and that the President be authorized to appoint a committee to formulate a plan for conduct of the said Art Museum.

The President brought to the attention of the Board a proposal by the United States War Department for the establishment of a Field Artillery Unit of the R. O. T. C. at the University, and after some discussion of the proposal action was deferred.

Mr. Rinehart, Chairman of the Building Committee of the Board, made a verbal report on the progress of the Bayly Art Museum and the new Engineering building, stating satisfactory progress had been made on both buildings and that the Art building would be completed around January 1, 1935.

The President announced the death of Professor William Holding Echols on September 25, 1934, and requested that a special committee be appointed to prepare suitable resolutions to be spread upon the minutes touching his life and service to the University. The Acting Rector appointed Messrs. Corbitt, Goolrick and L. C. Williams on the committee.

The President explained to the meeting that it had been customary in the past to continue the salary of a deceased professor for a short time and, after some discussion, it was

RESOLVED, That the salary of the late Professor Echols be continued to his widow for November 15th and December 15th payments; after December 15th, all payments on account of salary shall cease.

The President stated that some effort was being made to have the City of Charlottesville zone the property at the southwest corner of the intersection of routes 29 and 5 as business property, and recommended that the University enter a protest against such action, whereupon the following was adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That the President be and he is hereby requested to write to the Commissioners of the City of Charlottesville, protesting against the zoning for business purposes of that area of the City which abuts on the west side of Route 29, and which lies between Route 5 on the north, and the University property on the south.

The President brought to the attention of the Board the claim of Dr. W. A. Lambeth for reimbursement for expenditures made by him in the construction of his residence on Carr's Hill over and above the amount allocated for same, and the capital improvements and additions made to the property since its construction, amounting to something over $1,500. Dr. Lambeth had stated as his reason for not having made the claim at an earlier date was that when the cottage was erected for him he expected to occupy it until his retirement and that such additions and improvements were made to add to his comfort. Furthermore, no rent was charged him for the cottage for approximately ten years after its erection, but in order that he might be in conformity with the rule set up early in the administration of the late President Alderman, he had been charged rent at the rate of $212.50 per annum; that his cottage was demolished to make room for the Bayly Art building forcing him to find other quarters; that the University provided him with a residence until September 1, 1934, when he got possession of the residence he erected near the Memorial Gymnasium. The President advised the Board that the University had a claim against Dr. Lambeth for $1,181.00 for unpaid rent, etc. Following some discussion of the matter, it was referred to the Chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee and the President for settlement. (Note: Subsequent to the meeting the Chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee and the President compromised the claim, allowing Dr. Lambeth $590.80.)

The President stated to the Board that the University had a claim against Professor Edmund S. Campbell covering heat, rent and electric current running over several years in the amount of $3,200.80; that he had pressed for a settlement and that Professor Campbell had made a proposition which was outlined to the Board and approved.

Mr. Rinehart, Chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, reported to the Board that in compliance with its instructions the President's Residence on Carr's Hill had been put in good repair, and furnished for the occupancy of President Newcomb; that the furniture and other necessary furnishings cost $9,495.22 for which itemized bills were herewith presented. The report was accepted and approved.

The question of granting land along the University campus for widening University Avenue and along the "Pantops" property for widening Route 5 was disposed of in the following:

The President called the attention of the Board to an Act of the General Assembly of Virginia, approved March 24, 1934 (Acts 1934, p. 262) by which the University of Virginia is given authority to convey to the City of Charlottesville all right, title and interest of the Commonwealth and of the University of Virginia in and to a strip of land, not exceeding twenty feet in width, abutting the south side of Main Street in said City, and extending from the Main Gate of the University in a westerly direction to the boundary of said University, or so much of said property as said Rector and Visitors may deem proper. The President further stated that it was probable that the City might desire this conveyance to be made within the near future.

He further called attention to the fact that the Commonwealth, acting through the State Highway Department, had recently presented to him, for the consideration of this Board, a form of contract by which the University agrees to convey to the Commonwealth a strip of land approximately fifteen feet in width, off of the northern margin of Pantops, and along the southern margin of Route 5 as it runs along said Pantops property.

It is possible that these two conveyances may have certain bearing each upon the other, and the President requested that a special committee be appointed and given full power to negotiate with the representatives of the City of Charlottesville and with the State Highway Department, to the end that appropriate agreements looking toward said conveyances may be formulated, and that said special committee be given full power to act in each case; and in order that no unnecessary delay be occasioned in consummating said agreements and conveyances, the President also suggested that the Rector and the Secretary of the Board be directed to execute, in the name of and on behalf of, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia such agreements as may be finally approved by said special committee with said City of Charlottesville and with the Commonwealth of Virginia, and that said Rector and the Secretary of this Board be also empowered to execute and deliver proper deeds, making conveyance in accordance with the terms of each of said contracts.

After full consideration and discussion of this report of the President, it was thereupon unanimously

RESOLVED:

(1) That a Special Committee, composed of Mr. Rinehart and Mr. Newcomb be and is hereby appointed by this Board, and that said Committee is hereby given full authority to enter into negotiations with the City of Charlottesville and with the Commonwealth of Virginia, through the State Highway Commission, looking toward the conveyance of said two strips of land for Street and Highway purposes, subject to the following conditions:

1\. Sidewalk of Brick to be constructed on South Side of Main Street, between Main Entrance to University and Route 29.

2\. A new wall constructed of brick, or faced with brick, between Main Entrance and West Range Road.

3\. Removal of car tracks on Main Street.

4\. Provide an easier method of ingress and egress from Route 5 to the West Range Road.

5\. Strip to be taken is not to exceed that designated by present line of stakes which were in place at the time of the Board meeting, November 7.

(2) That if said Committee advocates the execution of contracts, or of a contract, the Rector and Secretary of this Board are hereby fully empowered to execute and deliver, on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, such contract or contracts.

(3) In the event that such contract or contracts provide for the execution and delivery of a deed or deeds, either to the City of Charlottesville or to the Commonwealth of Virginia, or to both of them, then the Rector and Secretary of this Board are hereby authorized and directed to execute such deed or deeds, and deliver same to the grantor or grantees named therein upon compliance by such grantor or grantee with the terms thereof.

The Special Committee appointed by the President to study the physical training and athletic situation here submitted its report which was read in full to the meeting by the President. Following some discussion, it was voted that the report be given the press about December 1, following receipt of a report it was understood would be submitted on the same matters by the Alumni Board of Trustees at their meeting on November 10, and that an adjourned meeting of this Board be held January 12, at 10 o'clock for their consideration.

The meeting then adjourned to meet January 12, 1935, at 10 o'clock.