Board of Visitors minutes (1937) June 29, 1937
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 29, 1937

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

2 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

A meeting of the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held at the home of Mr. Lewis C. Williams in Richmond, Virginia on Tuesday, June 29, 1937 at 8 p.m.

There were present Messrs. Rinehart, Williams, L. C., Williams, R. Gray, Garnett, Corbitt, Stuart and Goolrick.

Absent: The Rector, Mrs. Munford, and Mr. Hall.

1\. The President called the attention of the Board to the resolution adopted at the meeting held on June 14th, last, under which he and Mr. Rinehart were authorized to negotiate for the sale of the property known as "Pantops" and to enter into a contract for the sale thereof at the price of not less than $37,500. gross. He stated that after some negotiations he had received an offer of $37,500 cash from Mr. James H. Cheek of New York for this real estate, provided there be included in the sale two horses, one mule, and three cows, all of which are owned by the University and are now on the property, and provided, further, that the straw from the wheat when threshed be permitted to remain on the property and pass to the purchaser, and that the farm implements needed to harvest the present growing crops, lawn mowers, and other tools and machinery be loaned to the purchaser and permitted to remain on the property until the crops at present growing on the property are harvested.

After some discussion it was unanimously

RESOLVED, that the offer of Mr. James H. Cheek be accepted, and that the Rector is hereby authorized and empowered to execute and deliver in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia a good and sufficient deed by which said property shall be conveyed to the purchaser, or such person as he may designate, upon the payment of the purchase price therefor, and E. I. Carruthers, Secretary of this Board, or J. Rawlings Thomson, Acting Secretary, is hereby authorized and empowered to affix the corporate seal and attest the same.

And the proceeds of such sale shall be held in accordance with the resolution of June 14, 1937.

2\. The President presented a statement giving the names and amount of money appropriated to each scholarship holder who had been denied admission by the Board during the last year, which statement was approved and the President was instructed to present the statement to the Governor, amounting to $9,356.63.

3\. The President presented a statement of certain urgent financial needs of the University of Virginia for the Biennium 1938-1940. This statement was unanimously approved by the Board and the President was directed to present this to the Governor at a meeting to be held in the Governor's Office Wednesday, June 30th, at 10:30 a.m.

Upon motion the meeting then adjourned.