Board of Visitors minutes (1938) September 30, 1938
===================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

September 30, 1938

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

2 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

A. General Contract, or Contract No. 1 on PWA Project Va. 1101-F, to John C. Senter of Roanoke, Virginia. in the amount of

$107,895

B. Contract for Heating and Ventilation or Contract No. 2 on PWA Project Virginia 1101-F, to Williams Company of Norfolk, Virginia, in the amount of

$ 6,881

C. Contract for Elevator, or Contract No. 3 on PWA Project Va. 1101-F to the Salem Foundry Machinery Works, of Salem, Virginia, in the amount of

6,775

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date at 8:30 p.m. Present, the Rector, Fred. W. Scott, Visitors Corbitt, Garnett, Roolrick, Rinehart, L. C. Williams and R. Gray Williams, and President Newcomb.

President Newcomb announced the enrollment to date 2797 against 2614 to the same date last year.

Upon the recommendation of the President the following elections were voted.

William Dighton, Instructor in English, for the session of 1938-39 at a salary of $2500.

John Norville Gibson Finley, Assistant in Adult Education in the Extension Division of the University for a period of ten months beginning September 1, 1938 and ending June 30, 1939, at a salary of $2400.

Dr. Allan Talbott Gwathmey, Research Assistant in Chemistry, for the session of 1938-39, at a salary of $1800.

Alexander D. Wallace, Instructor in Mathematics for the session of 1938-39, at a salary of $1800.

John L. Kelley, Instructor in Mathematics for the session of 1938-39, at a salary of $1800.

The following Special Appropriations were voted:

For the purchase and installation of recording equipment in connection with the teaching of Public Speaking, $700.00.

For special filing cabinet for the office of the Dean of the College, $300.00.

The New Buildings Committee reported that at their meeting on September 20, 1938 for the purpose of opening bids on the Neuor-Psychiatric Ward of the Hospital, PWA Project Va. 1101-F, following the opening of bids contracts were awarded as set forth in the following resolution adopted:

RESOLVED, by the New Buildings Committee of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that subject to the approval of the Public Works Administration the following contracts be and they are hereby awarded:

The award of Contract No. 3 is also subject to favorable reports on the actual operation of several of their recent installations of passenger elevators of similar type. If the reports are unsatisfactory then in that event the President of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia be and he iw hereby authorized and directed to make the award, after approval by the PWA, to the next lowest bidder, which is Westbrook Elevator Manufacturing Company of Danville, Va., at $7,885.

The following in reference to certain Bond & Mortgage Guarantee certificates was considered and adopted:

The President presented to the Board a form of consent to be filed in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of Kings, in the matter of the People, &c. by George S. Van Schaick, Superintendent of Insurance, &c., Bond and Mortgage Guarantee Company, in the matter of Plan of Readjustment, &c. of the Rights of Holders of Investments in the Mortgages guaranteed by Bond and Mortgage Guarantee Company under Guarantees Nos. 170827, 170983, and 208334, and in the matter of the applications of the Mortgage Commission of the State of New York for an order approving a plan for the further readjustment of the rights of holders of investments in the mortgages guaranteed by Bond and Mortgage Guarantee Company under guarantees numbered as above, whereby the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia as holders of Certificates Nos. 91465, 116583, and 91757, in the principal amounts of $3,000.00, $4,000.00, and $19,800.00, respectively, consents to the terms and conditions of the proposed modified plan dated June 1, 1938, for the further readjustment, modification and reorganization of the rights of the holders of Mortgage Investments in the above described mortgages, and to any modification thereof as the Supreme Court of the state of New York shall approve, which modified plan has been promulgated by the Mortgage Commission of the State of New York and will be presented to the Supreme Court, Kings County, as specified in the notice thereof received by the University.

After consideration thereof, it was RESOLVED that Fred W. Scott, Rector, be and he is hereby authorized in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to execute the consents aforesaid, if upon further consideration he approved of the "Details of the Modified Plan", and E. I. Carruthers, Secretary of this Board, is hereby authorized and directed to affix the corporate seal thereto and attest the same and return said consents to the Mortgage Commission of the State of New York to be filed by said Commission in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of Kings.

The Rector read a report on the financial conditions of the Lehigh Valley Railroad Company to the effect that it was on the verge of Bankruptcy, and had asked for consent of its bondholders to defer for a period of five years three-fourths of the interest on its bonds in order to effect a readjustment of its finances and prevent Bankruptcy proceedings. He advised that the University owns in its consolidated funds $25,000 Consolidated Mortgage 4s of 2003.

On motion of Mr. Garnett, the Rector was authorized to consent on behalf of the University if, in his judgement, it was to the interest of the University to give such consent.

CONRAD HUBERT TRUST:

The President was authorized to attend a meeting in New York City on Monday October 10, to represent the University with power to act as one or several beneficiaries under the trust of Conrad Hubert to consider the question of accepting allocations in kind in final settlement of the said trust. He further reported that of an allotment to the University from the said trust of $50,000 only $12,500 was received in 1935.

KAPPA ALPHA FRATERNITY LOAN:

The loan of $10,000 to the Kappa Alpha Fraternity, made June 9, 1927, at 6% interest, payable serially from June 9, 1933 at the rate of $1,000 per annum, which loan was in default as to principal payments, was authorized to be refinanced on a 15 year contract at 5% to be paid in nine monthly installments from October 1st in each year, covering both principal and interest.

IN RE: REZONING OF VACANT LOT OPPOSITE THE SOUTH GATE OF THE UNIVERSITY TO PERMIT ERECTION OF A FILLING STATION.

A communication was received from M. L. Porter, owner of the lot on the southwest corner of Brandon Avenue and Jefferson Park Avenue, opposite the south Gate of the University, advising that the City Council would be requested to rezone the said section so that a filling station might be erected on the said lot, and soliciting the approval of the University to such rezoning. Following consideration of the matter at some length, the following motion by Mr. Corbitt was adopted:

RESOLVED, that the Rector and Visitors desire to record their opposition to the rezoning of this property for business purposes.

The meeting than adjourned.