Board of Visitors minutes (1938) September 7, 1938
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

September 7, 1938

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

2 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Robert Mitchell Mfg. Co.

$27,300.00

Lynchburg Lumber Mfg. Co.

42,403.00

John C. Knipp & Sons

18,200.00

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this day at 10:00 o'clock a. m. 1. To act upon an application to the Public Works Administration for a grant in aid of the construction of an addition to the University of Virginia Hospital in Charlottesville, Virginia, for which the State of Virginia has appropriated $250,000 in accordance with the provisions of Section 3-c, Chapter 428 of the Acts of Assembly, Virginia 1938, beginning on page 947.

2\. To open bids and take action thereon for the reconditioning and refurnishing of that part of the Rare Book and Manuscript Room in the new Library Building which has been designated The McGregor Room.

3\. Furthermore, any and all other matters relevant to or in any way connected with either or with both of the above matters, or which may be taken up, considered and acted upon at said meeting.

There were present the Rector, Frederic W. Scott, Visitors Corbitt, Garnett, Goolrick, Rinehart, Tucker and L. C. Williams and President Newcomb.

The following resolution was offered by Mr. Rinehart, seconded by Mr. Corbitt, was adopted:

A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA TO FILE AN APPLICATION TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA THROUGH THE FEDERAL EMERGENCY ADMINISTRATION OF PUBLIC WORKS FOR A GRANT TO AID IN FINANCING THE CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT OF AN ADDITION TO THE GENERAL HOSPITAL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AND DESIGNATING J. L. NEWCOLB, PRESIDENT OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, TO FURNISH SUCH INFORMATION AS THE GOVERNMENT MAY REQUEST.

Be it resolved by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia:

Section 1. That J. L. Newcomb, President, be and he is authorized to execute and file and application on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to the United States of America for a grant to aid in financing the construction and equipment of an addition to the General Hospital of the University of Virginia, consisting of the three central wings in a westerly direction to line with the present Barringer Wing.

Section 2. And said J. L. Newcomb, President, is hereby authorized and directed to furnish such information as the United States of America through the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works may reasonably request in connection with the application which is herein authorized to be filed.

On the original vote for adoption of the foregoing resolution Mr. Lewis C. Williams voted in the negative; but, upon motion to make the vote unanimous, he voted in the affirmative.

Pursuant to the advertisement stating that bids would be opened on the reconditioning of the McGregor Room at 11 o'clock on this date, and the hour having arrived, the bids were opened and found to be, as follows:

Following general discussion and consideration of the several bids, on motion of Mr. Garnett, the contract was awarded to John C. Knipp & Sons of Baltimore, Md., at their bid of $18,200.00.

Deletion of certain items from the wage scale submitted to PWA for Dockets Va. 1101-F and 1312-F.

The following resolution offered by Mr. Corbitt and seconded by Mr. Rinehart, was adopted unanimously:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that in accordance with the request of the Regional Director of the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works, the classifications of Marble Helper, Terrazzo Helper and Tile Setters Helper be and the same are hereby deleted from the wage scale submitted to and a pproved by the Public Works Administration for Dockets Va. 1101-F and 1312-F, and

RESOLVED, further, that an elevator constructor, at the minimum wage scale of $1.10 per hour, be added to the minimum wage scale for Dockets Va. 1101-F and 1312-F.

The President presented a lease made between the University and Edwin T. Driscoll for the dining room in the Faculty Apartments, for three years from September 12, 1938, with a rental of $500.00 for the first year and $600 per year for the remaining two years. The same was ratified and confirmed in all respects.

The following elections to the faculty were voted:

Dr. Gephart Husserl, Visiting Professor of Law for the session of 1938-39, at a salary of $3600. to be furnished by the American Law Institute.

C. Homer Bast, fulltime Instructor in Rural Social Economics for the session of 1938-39, at a salary of $2300. taking the place of W. G. Poindexter, resigned, at the same salary.

Lynn Gault, Instructor in Dramatic Art, for the session, taking the place of Roger Boyle, at the same salary, $1500 for the session.

The Rector reported that the University received in the Bayly-Tiffany bequest $12,000 Chesapeake & Ohio Canal bonds which, when received, were considered of no value, but that there was a prospect of the canal property being sold to the Federal Government, and that he had received an offer of 10&cent; on the dollar for the bonds. He was authorized by the Board to accept the same.

The President reported that he had received a cash offer of $600.00 for the 51 acre tract of land, located in Dinwiddie County, about 4 miles from Petersburg, belonging to the Seward Estate. The sale was approved as set forth in the following resolutions adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to accept the offer of George R. Marek of $600 cash for the 51-acre tract of land owned by the University and located approximately four miles sough of Petersburg between the old River Road and the Norfolk and Western Railway.

RESOLVED, further, that when this sale has been closed the Attorney for the University be requested to prepare the necessary deed conveying this property in the name of the Rector and Visitors of the University, that the Rector be, and hw is hereby, authorized and directed to sign the deed for the Rector and Visitors, and that the Secretary of the Corporation be requested to attest the seal.

The meeting then adjourned.