Board of Visitors minutes (1945) June 15, 1945
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 15, 1945

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

2 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

BARON F. BLACK APPOINTED VISITOR OF THE UNIVERSITY: ENROLLMENT: ELECTIONS: RANDALL-MCIVER TRUST FUND: PI KAPPA ALPHA NATIONAL FRATERNITY MEMORIAL BUILDING: NAVAL ARMORY BUILDING: ARCHITECTS FOR THE NAVAL ARMORY BUILDING: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICE FOR THE COMPLETION OF THE ROTUNDA: FEE REFUNDED TO THE UNIVERSITY BY THE ATTORNEY FOR THE UNIVERSITY IN THE SALE OF A CERTAIN PROPERTY: DOROTHY DEERING WILL MATTER: REAR ADMIRAL DAVID C. CATHER ESTATE MATTER: LOCATION OF CERTAIN NEW BUILDINGS:
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date in the office of the President at 11 o'clock, A.M. Present, the Rector R. Gray Williams; Visitors Lewis C. Williams, Christopher B. Garnett, Edward C. Anderson, Debney S. Lancaster, Mrs. O. A. Calcott, Mrs. Phoebe E. Willis, Mrs. Bertha P. Wailes, Richard A. Carrington, Jr. and Barron F. Black, and President Newcomb. Mr. Stockmar of the firm of Eggers & Higgins also attended.

Mr. Barron F. Black, appointed by the Governor to succeed Dr. W. Dandridge Haden, for the term ending February 29, 1948, presented a certificate from the Clerk of the Corporation Court of Norfolk that he had duly qualified.

The minutes of the meeting of May 4, copied and mailed the members, were approved.

The President announced the present enrollment in the University at 1174.

Upon the recommendation of the President, the following elections were voted:

Herbert Palmer Fullerton, Associate Professor of Engineering Drawing, at a session salary of $4,000, incumbency to begin July 1, 1945.

Lt. Stuart H. Clement and Ensign George A. McAfee, Assistant Professors of Naval Science and Tactics, effective May 10, 1945, without salary from the University.

The President presented the matter of the Randall-McIver Trust Fund of some $126,000. Action thereon was deferred.

The President presented a communication from the Pi Kappa Alpha National Fraternity expressing a desire to erect a memorial building at the University, and the matter was disposed of by the adoption of the following resolution:

RESOLVED, that the plan of the Pi Kappa Alpha National Fraternity to erect a memorial building at the University of Virginia is approved by this Board, and it is regretted that a site on the ground of the University cannot be granted for the building.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, that the President be and he is hereby directed to make application to the Governor of the Commonwealth for a deficit appropriation in the sum of $110,000 for the purpose of erecting a Naval Armory for the use of NROTC students, which is specified and required by the Navy Department.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, that the New Buildings Committee are empowered and authorized to employ architects for the Naval Armory Building.

The Chairman of the Special Committee on Rotunda Restoration, Mr. Lewis C. Williams, outlined certain suggested work on the Rotunda and the probability of employing architectural service therefor, and the committee was given authority to act in the matter.

The President advised the Board that Mr. W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, who was also one of the two trustees for the Kappa Alpha Fraternity property on University Circle, which property was sold by the University to satisfy a claim for loan thereon, had paid over to the University his fee received in the matter, and the thanks of the board were voted to him for his generous action.

Mr. Perkins appeared before the Board and presented a written statement dealing with a possible interest which the University may have under the will of the late Miss Dorothy Deering, of Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

After a full discussion of the questions presented, it was

RESOLVED, that the statement above referred to be filed with the minutes of this meeting and that Mr. Perkins be, and is hereby instructed to adv se Judge Robert H. Winn, and also Mr. James G. Sterling, Administrator c. t. a., of Dorothy Deering, deceased, that this Board accepts the offer of $2500 in compromise settlement made by Mr. Harry W. Lockridge and the President is authorized and instructed to execute and deliver to him such form of receipt and release as may be approved by the Attorney for the University.

Adopted.

Mr. Perkins presented a written statement dealing with a possible interest which the University has in the estate of the late Rear Admiral David C. Cather. He also presented to the Board a form of release of the University's rights, which the University is requested by Mr. Harry Lupton Cather, brother and residuary legatee of Admiral Cather, to execute and deliver.

Mr. Perkins' statement set out in detail the facts surrounding this situation, contained a brief discussion of the law applicable to the case and concluded with the expression of opinion that the University should not execute the proposed release.

It was, thereupon,

RESOLVED, that the statement above referred to the filed with the minutes of this meeting and that Mr. Perkins be and is hereby instructed to advise Mr. Leslie Hall, Attorney-at-Law, Arlington, Virginia, who is representing Mr. Harry Luptoh Cather in this matter, that the University cannot comply with the request that the release in question be executed and the rights of the University, if any, surrendered.

Adopted

The President then took up the matter of location of certain of the buildings forming part of the expansion program for housing, feeding and entertaining additions to the student attendance at the University. Mr. Stockmar, representing Eggers & Higgins the architects for the new construction, was present and entered into a general discussion of the matter.

The President stated that following the meeting of the Board on May 4, 1945, at which time the location for the women's buildings was approved for the site northwest of Scott Stadium, further study had been given the matter and it was found that a site on the south side of the grounds, south of McIntire Amphitheatre, would provide space sufficient for a central building and dormitories that would care for the expected enrollment of women for several years; that the matter had been discussed with the Governor who was agreeable to the change provided the site formerly selected be reserved for future location when the need demanded it.

On motion, the following resolutions were adopted:

RESOLVED, that the location of the Women's Buildings, be changed from the site approved on May 4, 1945, northwest of Scott Stadium, to the location shown on plate #5, south of McIntire Amphitheatre as to present construction but the former site be reserved for future construction.

RESOLVED, that the cafeteria building in connection with the new dormitories for men be located on the old golf links near Route #29.

RESOLVED, that the Student Union Building be located on the site on map #6.

RESOLVED, further, that the President be instructed to advise the architects to go forward with preparation of construction plans for the proposed buildings.

The meeting then adjourned.