Board of Visitors minutes (1946) April 6, 1946
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 6, 1946

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

2 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

ENROLLMENT AS OF THIS DATE: 2715. GIFTS: RESIGNATIONS: ELECTIONS: REPORT OF THE NEW BUILDINGS COMMITTEE:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the estate of Mr. Julien H. Hill

$10,000

as a memorial to his brother, William Maury Hill, to be credited to the General Endowment Fund of the University.

From Mrs. Francis E. Hill

$ 5,000

of Bloomfield, New Jersey, for the establishment of a scholarship as a memorial to her mother, Elizabeth Buford Phillips.

From Mrs. Alvin B. Hutzler

$ 1,000

of Richmond, to be added to her previous bequests to the University in memory of her husband.

From the Research Corporation

$10,000

of New York, to be used over a two-year period to subsidize basic studies of metal surfaces under the direction of Dr. Allan T. Gwathmey.

From the Research Corporation

$ 750

of New York, for the advancement and extension of scientific and technical investigation, under the direction of the McCormick Observatory.

From the du Pont Company

$ 2,200

for a post graduate fellowship in chemistry.

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date with the following members present; the Rector, R. Gray Villiams, Visitors C. B. Garnett, Mrs. O. A. Calcott, Mrs. Phoebe E. Willis, Mrs. Bertha P. Wailes, Barron F. Black, Dr. J. M. Emmett, and President Newcomb.

The President reported the following resignations from the faculty, which were accepted with regret and with the wishes of the Board for the highest success in their new undertakings.

Dr. Dirk Reuyl, Associate Professor of Astronomy

Dr. George B. Mider, Associate Professor of Pathology

Dr. Darrel Eugene Mack, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering

Upon the recommendation of the President, the following were elected to the Faculty;

Dr. Sidman P. Poole, Professor of Geography, encumbency to begin September 30, 1946, at a salary, according to the present schedule, of $4,500 per annum.

Dr. Francis Power Parker, Associate Professor of Pathology, encumbency to begin July 1, 1946, at a salary of $7,500 per calendar year; $6,000 from the University and $1,500 from the Department of Pathology.

Dr. Robert M. Hubbard, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, encumbency to begin May 1, 1946, at a salary, according to the present schedule, of $3,750 per session.

Dr. Horton Holcombe Hobbs, Jr., Associate Professor of Biology, encumbency to begin September 30, 1946 at a salary, according to the present schedule, of $3,750 per session.

Dr. Edward Purdy Ney, Assistant Professor of Physics, encumbency to begin February 25, 1946, at a salary, according to the present schedule, of $2,800 per session.

Mr. William W. Austin, Assistant Professor of Music, encumbency to begin February 25, 1946, at a salary, according to the present schedule, of $2,800 per session.

Mr. Emerson George Spies, Assistant Professor of Law, encumbency to begin April 1, 1946, at a salary, according to the present schedule, of $3,500 per session.

Mr. Wayne Alexander Wallace, Assistant Professor of Geography, encumbency to begin September 30, 1946, at a salary, according to present schedule, of $2,800 per session.

Dr. Edward E. Younger, Assistant Professor of History, encumbency to begin September 30, 1946, at a salary, according to present schedule, of $2,800 per session.

Dr. William Roberts Sandusky, Assistant Professor of Surgery and Gynecology, encumbency to begin April 1, 1946, at a yearly salary of $7,500, to be paid from the earning of the Department of Surgery.

Mr. Floyd E. Johnson, Instructor in Architecture for one session encumbency to begin February 25, 1946, at a salary of $2,000 for the session.

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors, July 14, 1945, authorizing the President to give professional standing in the faculty to Naval officers serving at the University, he reported the following appointments, without salary from the University, which were ratified:

Commander Everett Garrison, Associate Professor of Naval Science and Tactics, effective February 25, 1946.

Lieutenant Commander David Gordon Woosley, Associate Professor of Naval Science and Tactics.

Lieutenant John Quincy Edwards, Assistant Professor of Naval Science and Tactics, effective February 28, 1946.

Lieutenant (jg) Richard John Alexander, Assistant Professor of Naval Science and Tactics, effective January 28, 1946.

Lieutenant (jg) Quentin Powell Whipple, Assistant Professor Naval Science and Tactics, effective January 9, 1946.

Upon the recommendation of the President, the following was adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition fee in the Department of Medicine be increased for Virginia students from $310 to $350, and for non-Virginia students from $360 to $500, beginning with the session of 1947-48.

The matter of chargingall GI Students out of state fees was referred to the President with power to act.

The President reporting for the New Buildings Committee of the Board, stated that the Committee had met with the members of the State Art Commission in Richmond, at which time the Art Commission and the Board's Committee approved the site location for the Men's Dormitories and the preliminary plans for the Men's Dormitories. The Cafeteria was approved, subject to certain recommendations which have been made to the Architects, Eggers and Higgins, and that Eggers and Higgins had agreed to make the suggested changes in preliminary plans. He further stated that as regards to the Students Activities Building, there had been no approval by either the Board's Committee or the Art Commission.

After a discussion of the suggested Medical School and Hospital Building, the Board went on record as favoring a multiple structure for the Hospital Building on the suggested site, and the Board directed the President to inform Eggers and Higgins that they could go forward with their preliminary sketch and report on the basis of this multiple structure building.

The meeting then adjourned.