Board of Visitors minutes (1946) July 12, 1946
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

July 12, 1946

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

3 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

ENROLLMENT TO DATE: 2413. GIFTS: RESIGNATIONS: CHANGES IN NAVAL PERSONNEL REPORTED BY THE PRESIDENT: THOMAS FORTUNE RYAN SCHOLARSHIPS AWARDED: JOINT HEALTH DEPARTMENT: NEW BUILDINGS COMMITTEE INCREASED: MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS REPORT OF THE BUILDINGS COMMITTEE ON THE RENOVATION OF THE BROMPTON PROPERTY:
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From The Rockefeller Foundation, toward the general budget of the Bureau of Public Administration during the two years beginning July 1, 1946

$53,600

From Dr. S. E. Chambers, of Miami, Florida, for scholarships in the Department of Medicine, in honor of Dr. H. E. Jordan, Dr. Harry T. Marshall, Dr. W. E. Bray and Dr. J. A. Waddell

$2,000

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date in the office of the President at 11 o'clock, a.m. with the following present: Visitors, E. C. Anderson, Barron F. Black, M. H. Bustard, C. B. Garnett, Thomas B. Gay, Mrs. Bertha P. Wailes, Mrs. J. M. H. Willis, and Dr. H. H. Trout, Sr., President Newcomb, and President Combs of Mary Washington College.

In the absence of the Rector, Mr. C. B. Garnett was elected chalrm of the meeting.

The minutes of the meeting of June 1, 1946, which had been copied and mailed to the members were approved.

The President submitted the following matters:

The President submitted the resignations of Dr. John Henry Rushton, Professor of Chemical Engineering, and Dr. Melvin Gardner de Chazeau, Professor of Commerce and Business Administration, which were accepted with regrets, and with the formal wishes of the Board of Visitors for the highest success in their new undertakings.

The following officers have been detached from the Naval Reserve Officers' Mraining Corps at the University of Virginia, and their names have been removed from the list of faculty members:

Lieut. Comdr. William Francis Thompson, U.S.N.R., as of June 14, 1946.

Lieut. Comdr. Herman Louis Trautman, U.S.N.R., as of June 11, 1946.

Lieutenant John Quincy Edwards, U.S.N.R., as of June 18, 1946.

Lieut. (jg) Quentin Powell Whipple, U.S.N.R., as of June 11, 1946.

The following Thomas Fortune Ryan Scholarships were awarded for the session of 1946-47:

First District; Dean Gunther White, Christchurch, Virginia

Second District; Thea Woodson Adams, Portsmouth, Virginia

Fourth District; Martin Boyd Coyner, Jr., Farmville, Virginia

Sixth District; Robert Earl Offenbacker, Roanoke, Virginia

Seventh District; Raleigh Minor Eager, Charlottesville, Virginia

Eighth District; Robert Payne Cox, Warrenton, Virginia

Tenth District; Alan Martin Bruns, Howardsville, Virginia

Awarded at Large; Floyd Layton Taylor, Jr., Amnerst, Virginia

On motion of Mr. Gay, the following was adopted:

RESOLVED, That the President be requested to submit to the Board, report of methods used in bringing to the attention of parents and prospective students, scholarships valuable.

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the existing contract with the Joint Health Department of the City of Charlottesville and Albemarle County be amended as follow, striking out Section 13 of the contract which reads,

"That the money appropriated for the operation of the Joint Health Department shall be budgeted to one account. Said account shall be kept by the City Auditor and the City shall be allowed $15.00 per month for such services. Said auditor shall furnish the contracting parties to this agreement such reports and financial statements as they may require.

and inserting in lieu thereof the following,

"That the money appropriated for the operation of the Joint Health Department shall be budgeted to one account. Said account shall be kept by the Auditor and an allowance of $25.00 per month shall be made for such services. Said auditor shall furnish the contracting parties to this agreement such reports and financial statements as they may require."

On motion of Mr. Anderson, the following was adopted:

RESOLVED, that the New Buildings Committee be increased to five members, the additional members to be appointed by the Chairman of this meeting; that members be given an opportunity to secure outside opinion, and that the matter of the location of the Student Union Building be continued.

The chairman of the meeting added the following members to the New Buildings Committee: Stettinius, Black and Mrs. Willis.

The Jefferson Memorial Foundation made application for permission to erect a sign at the intersection of routes 250 and 29 to advertise Monticello and the University of Virginia. The matter was disposed of in the following resolution adopted:

RESOLVED, that the Monticello Foundation be given a revecable license to erect such sign, and that the Foundation indemnify the University of Virginia for any harm arising from such sign.

The City of Charlottesville asked permission to run its on University property from Elliewood Avenue to route 29 to increase gas facilities for the Copeloy Project. Deferred for further action.

Mr. Black, Chairman of the Finance Committee, submitted a report of the changes in the endowment investments from January 1, to July 1, 1946. Action was deferred to the August meeting of the Board, at Mr. Black's suggestion.

President Combs presented the following matters for Mary Washington College which were adopted:

Mr. Julien Binford was elected Acting Professor of Art for the session of 1946-47 at a basic salary of $3,500 for the session of 9 months, subject to the increase effective July 1, 1946, incumbency to begin on September 16, 1946.

Dr. Richard M. Kirby, Associate Professor of Economics and Business Administration, was granted an extension of his leave of absence until September 1947.

In the matter of the purchase of the Reichel property, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, that Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia be and is hereby authorized, subject to the approval of the Governor, to purchase the Reichel property adjoining the southern end of the campus containing seven and one-half acres of land and the improvements thereon, and to pay the sum not exceeding $125,000 from its operating fund and upon execution of the deed, together with certificate of title and abstract approved by the attorney for the University, the President of Mary Washington College is authorized and directed to accept said deed, and the treasurer thereof to make payment as herein set forth to the owner, and have said deed recorded.

The Building Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met in the office of the President of the University on June 29 and reviewed the architectural plans and specifications for the renovation of Brompton of Mary Washington College. The Committee voted unanimously to recommend to the Rector and Visitors the approval of these plans, whereupon

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Building Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the architectural plans and specifications for the renovation of Brompton at Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia be and the same is hereby approved, and Combs be and he is hereby authorized to sign contracts on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

The foregoing resolution was adopted by the Rector and Visitors.

The meeting then adjourned.