Board of Visitors minutes (1946) September 13, 1946
===================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

September 13, 1946

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

4 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

PROMOTION: ELECTIONS: Extension of time or contract for Nurses Home addition: MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS:REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE WITH REFERENCE TO THE RENOVATION AND RESTORATION OF BROMPTON In the Matter of the Purchase of Certain Furniture and Furnishings from Dr. Frank H. Reichel
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date at 11 o'clock in the office of President Newcomb. There were present the Rector, Visitors Barksdale, Willis, Garnett, Black, Gay, Bustard, Calcott, Wailes, Carrington, Miller, Dr. Trout, President Newcomb, and President Combs.

The Rector presented the following letter which he had received from President Newcomb, and a copy of his reply thereto:

If I am alive on December 18, 1946, I shall have reached my sixty-fifth birthday, and therefore will be eligible for a minimum retiring allowance.

I have had a firm conviction for many years that a college president should retire early rather than late. Moreover, the management of the University of Virginia during the period of the second World War and the reconversion period has been exceedingly difficult and most onerous, taking a large toll of my physical strength. Accordingly, I tender to you, and through you to the Board of Visitors, my resignation as President of the University of Virginia, effective at the pleasure of the Board, after December 18th of this year.

For more than forty years I have given to the service of the University in various capacities whatever of energy and ability I have possessed. I do not think it necessary for me to say that I shall always remain loyal and devoted to what I believe to be the best interests of my Alma Mater. If at any time I can be useful in a purely unofficial capacity, I shall count it a happiness to be called upon.

With assurances of my good will, I have the honor to remain,

Your letter of September 9th advising me of your desire to retire as President of the University of Virginia on or soon after your sixty-fifth birthday has just reached me.

It brings a message of serious importance to the future welfare of the University and will be received, I am sure, by the Board of Visitors in a spirit of concern.

Your more than forty years service as teacher, as Dean of the Department of Engineering, and as President have reflected great credit upon you as an educator and administrator, and you have uniformly upheld the great traditions of our beloved University.

I shall place your resignation before the next meeting of the Board of Visitors and advise you in due course of its action.

With cordial regards, I am,

The following resolution was adopted:

1\. RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia having received with deep concern and profound regret the resignation of Dr. John L. Newcomb, President, expressing his desire to terminate on or after December 18, 1946, his more than forty years of service to the University, and in view of the reasons stated in his letter of September 9, 1946, the Board reluctantly accepts his decision to retire as President of the University, effective at the pleasure of the Board after the date mentioned.

2\. RESOLVED FURTHER that the Rector be and he is hereby authorized and requested to appoint a special committee of the Board consisting of five members, of which the Rector is ex officio a member, to make a nation-wide survey for a successor to Dr. Newcomb and later to report its findings and recommendations of a list of names of persons deemed qualified to discharge the highly important and exacting duties of the President of the University of Virginia.

Complying with the foregoing resolution the Rector appointed the following committee; Gay, Chairman, Garnett, Anderson, Wailes, and Dr. Trout.

The President reported the enrollment at this date 2167.

The President's recommendations for the following promotion and elections were approved:

Promotion of Dr. Alfred Burger, assistant Professor of Chemistry, to Associate Professor of Chemistry, at a basic salary of $3,750.00, plus the Tuck formula, as of October 1, 1946.

Dr. O. L. Updike, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, at a basic salary of $3,750, plus the Tuck formula, encumbency to begin October 1, 1946.

Mr. H. Hardy Perritt, Assistant Professor of Speech, at a salary of $2,800, plus the Tuck formula, encumbency to begin September 30, 1946.

Mr. William B. O'Neal, Assistant Professor of Art and Architecture, at a basic salary of $2,899, plus the Tuck formula, encumbency to begin September 30, 1946.

Mr. James E. May, Acting Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a basic salary of $2,800 per session, plus the Tuck Formula, encumbency to begin October 1, 1946.

Dr. Selby Hanssen, Instructor in English, at a basic salary per session of $2,400, plus the Tuck Formula, encumbency to begin September 30, 1946.

Special resolution in connection with the transfer to their nominee of stock deposited with the State-Planters Bank & Trust Company from the MacIver bequest, adopted:

RESOLVED, that J. L. Newcomb, President and E. I. Carruthers, Secretary, be and they are hereby authorized in the name and on behalf of the University of Virginia to sell, assign and transfer the following stocks standing in the name of the University of Virginia unto Hamac and Company, namely:

93 shares E. I. DuPont de Nemours and Co. preferred stock represented by Ctf. No. J83597.

100 shares General Motors Corp. common stock represented by Ctf. Nos. D-800-565.

125 shares Kennecott Copper Corp. capital stock represented by CTFS. Nos. O575168 (25 shs) and C466740 (100 shs).

100 shares Pennsylvania R.R. Co. capital stock represented by Ctf. No. F182936.

12 shares Union Pacific R.R. Co. common stock represented by Ctf. No. A604252.

and be it further

RESOLVED, that the aforementioned companies and/or corporations, their transfer agent or agents, their registrar or registrars, their successors or assigns, be and they are hereby authorized to treat Hamac and Company as the holder in fact and owner of said shares and certificates representing the same for any and all purposes including but not limited to the paymentor issuing of dividends in money or stock to said Hamac and Company; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the aforementioned companies and/or corporations, their transfer agent or agents, their registrar or registrars, and their respective successors and assigns, be and they are hereby absolved from any and all responsibility in following the said shares as being the property of the University of Virginia.

Report of the Attorney General of Virginia concerning the eligibility of students of the Mary Washington College to receive scholarships established under the will of Evelyn Bayly Tiffany, given in response to request of the Board of Visitors:

"In my opinion, the fellowships are not restricted either to male students or to students pursuing their studies at Charlottesville, but girls seeking admission to Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia at Fredericksburg are also eligible to receive them, since the College is an integral part of the University."

Signed, Abram P. Staples, Attorney General

In conformity to the foregoing opinion the application of Miss Donna Anders Powell, a fourth-year student in Mary Washington College, for a Bayly-Tiffany scholarship for the session of 1946-47 was granted:

The recommendation of the Dean of the College that the Rinehart scholarship be awarded to James W. Barksdale of Afton, Va., was approved.

The President reported a request from the Mint Museum of Art for the loan of a portrait or picture for exhibition purposes. The request was granted and the President authorized to select the portrait or picture to be loaned.

On motion of the Rector it was RESOLVED, that the opening hour of the monthly meetings of the Board be hereafter fixed at ten o'clock A.M.

The President informed the Board that the Nurses' Home addition was substantially completed as of May 2, 1946, and he presented a copy of a letter from the Graham Brothers asking for an extension of the date of completion from December 20, 1945, to May 2, 1946.

After a full discussion of the matter, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:

"WHEREAS, as a result of an inspection of the Nurses' Home Addition, Project Va: 44-356, on May 2, 1946, it was found that our contract and subsequent Change Orders thereto had been completed except for minor corrections and adjustments, therefore

"BE IT RESOLVED that said Contract be accepted as of May 2, 1946, subject to minor corrections and adjustments as heretofore noted, and further subject to such action as may be deemed necessary with respect to liquidated damages for non-completion of the Contract within the specified time.

"RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that approval is given to the request of Graham Brothers in a letter dated May 10, 1946, for an extension of time of completion of the Nurses' Home Addition from December 20, 1945 to May 2, 1946, the date on which this contract was inspected and accepted as substantially completed.

"RESOLVED further that approval of this extension of time be requested of the Federal Works Agency." Adopted.

Mr. C. B. Garnett, who was requested at the last meeting of the Board to prepare a memorial to Robert Gray Williams, presented the draft of the memorial which was read and adopted.

MEMORIAL TO ROBERT GRAY WILLIAMS

Robert Gray Williams of Winchester, Virginia, died in that city on the 24th day of July, 1946. He was born at Leesburg, Virginia on July 10, 1878, but was brought by his parents to Winchester when he was an infant and spent the remainder of his life in that city. He was the son of Col. John J. Williams and Mrs. Emily (Gray) Williams. His father, a distinguished Confederate veteran, practiced law in Winchester after the close of the War between the States.

Robert Gray Williams received his early education at the old Shenandoah Valley Academy in Winchester. From that school he went to the University of Virginia, where he was a student from 1896 to 1900. On account of his father's death he had to withdraw from the University just on the eve of his graduation to take over his father's law practice.

He was a member of the Virginia State Bar Association, of which he served as President in 1926-27, and was also a member of the American Bar Association.

His success and eminence at the Bar were attested by the fact that he became counsel for the Northern Virginia Power Company; Virginia Voolen Company; Baltimore and Ohio Railroad and the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, and was also president of the George Washington Hotel Corporation. He was a member of the Board of Handley Fund Trustees and was president of that board from 1915 to 1940, when he resigned his office due to press of private business. At the time of his death he was president of the Shenandoah National Bank, an office which was held by his grandfather, Philip Williams, who was the first President thereof. He was a member of the Board of Directors of the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company of Virginia and was president of the Rockingham Publishing Company, publishers of the Daily News Record of Harrisonburg. He was a member of the Virginia State Library Board.

His devotion to the University of Virginia began early in his life and continued until the end. In addition to being a member of the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund of the University of Virginia, he served as a member of the Board of Visitors from March 1, 1932, until his death, and on November 4, 1939 succeeded the late Fred W. Scott as Rector, the office which he held at the time of his death. As a member of the executive committee and of the finance committee of the Board, he gave unstintedly and generously of his time and talents to the affairs of the University.

Like Ulysses of old, he could say "I am a part of all I have met", and it may be added that in whatever activities he was engaged, whether for the State, the City, the University or the corporations which he served so well, he contributed a part of his life and gave dignity to their functions.

His ability as a lawyer is attested by the fact that he refused an appointment, which was offered to him by Governor Byrd, to be a member of the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia and he was appointed a member of the commission to recommend revisions of the Constitution, in which capacity he rendered great service to the chairman of the commission, the late Judge Robert R. Prentis.

The various fraternal organizations and clubs to which he belonged gave evidence of his great influence with, and interest in, other people. At the University he was a member of the Colonnade Club, the Raven Society, Phi Beta Kappa, and Delta Psi fraternities. He was a member of Christ Episcopal Church of Winchester, of the Commonwealth Club at Richmond and of the National Press Club at Washington.

He was married first to Elizabeth King on December 1, 1900. After her death he was married to Hilda B. Dean on Deptember 4, 1940, by whom he is survived. By his first wife he had two children and by her he left five grandchildren.

In all of his relations, he exhibited the qualities of loyalty, amiability and high purpose, and these qualities endeared him to his friends and made it impossible for him to have any open enemies.

For him, the busy world is hushed, the fever of life is over, and his work is done. Requiescat in pace.

President Combs presented the following recommendations which were adopted:

Miss C. Clay Adams elected Instructor in Latin and Greek, at a salary of $2000 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 16, 1946.

Mr. Phineas P. Wright elected Acting Assistant Professor of English, tenure one year only, at a salary of $2700 for the session, incumbency to begin September 16, 1946.

Mr. Samuel C. Ruff elected substitute Instructor in English, at a salary of $2300 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin on September 16, 1946.

Mr. Walter Russell King elected Substitute Instructor in English, at a salary of $2300 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 16, 1946.

Mr. James Philip Thompson elected Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, at a salary of $2500 for the session, tenure one year only, incumbency to begin September 16, 1946.

Dr. J. B. Kincanon, elected substitute Instructor in English, for one year only, at a salary of $2300 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 16, 1946.

The resignations of Mr. Harold Weiss, Assistant Professor of Speech and Radio, and his wife,

Mrs. Winifred Weiss, Assistant Professor of Secretarial Science, effective immediately. Since there was little or no future for Mrs. Weiss in her field here, they desired employment where there was more promise in her field, and accepted positions with the Southern Methodist University in Texas.

The Resignation of Mr. Herman J. Bryson, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, effective immediately.

The contract with architects for the renovation of Brompton was read and approved, as set forth in the following resolution:

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the contract with WALFORD AND WRIGHT, Architects, for the renovation of Brompton be and the same is hereby approved and that the proper officers at Mary Washington College be authorized to execute same.

The minutes of the regular monthly meeting of the Board held on July 12, 1946, contained the following:

"REPORT OF THE BUILDINGS COMMITTEE ON THE RENOVATION OF THE BROMPTON PROPERTY:

The Building Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met in the office of the President of the University on June 29 and reviewed the architectural plans and specifications for the renovation of Brompton of the Mary Washington College. The Committee voted unanimously to recommend to the Rector and Visitors the approval of these plans, whereupon

"The following resolution was adopted:

"RESOLVED, by the Building Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the architectural plans and specifications for the renovation of Brompton at Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia be and the same is hereby approved, and Dr. Combs be and he is hereby authorized to sign contracts on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

"The foregoing resolution was adopted by the Rector and Visitors."

Under date of August 26, 1946, Governor Tuck addressed a letter to the President of Mary Washington College, in which he stated that Mr. J. H. Bradford, Director of the Budget, had received information that instead of renovation costs being between $5,000 and $25,000 as originally estimated, the present estimates ran from $35,000 to $50,000, and that the increased cost was due, in a large measure, to the elaboration of the original plans. The Governor requested that no commitments be made on account of proposed improvements until the matter had been further considered by the Rector and Visitors of the University, and the whole plan submitted for further consideration.

Under date of August 31st, Dr. Combs wrote to Governor Tuck stating that Mr. Bradford was under an erroneous impression of the reason for the costs beyond what was originally estimated: that after the demolition work had been begun it was discovered that a portion of the kitchen and dining hall had collapsed and had to be rebuilt entirely; that the floors, joists, rafters and roof were in very bad condition and could not be saved, that the two outbuildings which formerly were slave quarters were in even worse condition; that there were no baths in any of the outbuildings nor any sanitary facilities and that consequently everything had to be replaced except the brick walls, the brick partitions, the weatherboarding in front of the kitchen and dining room; that the increased cost was not due in any large extent to the elaboration of the original plans but to the aforesaid condition of the property. He further reported to the Governor that he and Mr. Woodward had been to Richmond and took the matter up with Mr. Bradford and explained to him that the additional cost beyond the original estimate was not due in any large measure to the elaboration of the plans and that Mr. Bradford had reported to him, Dr. Combs, that the Governor had given a verbal approval for the continuation of the work.

Under the date of September 4th President Combs informed Christopher B, Garnett, the chariman of the Mary Washington Committee, that he had instructed the architects to go ahead with construction which is absolutely necessary for the preservation of the building, such as the new roof, strengthening the frame work in the attic, new rafters, the installation of the plumbing, heating and electrical work, rebuilding the back porch and dining hall unit, and new floors wherever necessary, but that the matter of whether the paneling should be adopted for certain public rooms shall not be determined until after the plastering has been done and the extra costs shall be submitted to the Governor and Mr. Bradford.

The committee therefore recommends to the Rector and Board of Visitors the following resolution be adopted:

RESOLVED, that the execution of the contract for the renovation and restoration of Brompton shall be continued but limited to the construction which is absolutely necessary for the preservation of the building such as a new roof, strengthening the framework in the attic, new rafters, installation of the plumbing, heating and electrical work, rebuilding the back porch and dining hall unit and new floors wherever necessary, but that the matter of the installation of paneling be deferred until after the plastering shall have been done and the contract therefor approved by the Director of the Budget and the Governor, and that the architect and contractor be requested to give an estimate of the cost of work already done and the cost of work to be done in order to carry out this resolution.

The foregoing resolution was adopted.

At a prior meeting of the Board the offer of Dr. Reichel to sell to the Mary Washington College certain furniture and furnishings in his house, enumerated in an inventory at $26,000, was communicated to the Board and the Board authorized your Committee to have the property appraised. In accordance therewith the Chairman employed Mark McK. Sloan and Fairfax Edelen, of C. G. Sloan & Co., Inc. to make the appraisal. Before the appraisal was made, however, Dr. Reichel withdrew his offer to sell the property enumerated in his list, with the exception of certain marked items, and offered to sell the property in the marked items at $5,600.

On August 26, 1946, the aforesaid appraisers went to Fredericksburg and appraised the furniture and furnishings in said list at $4,359.50. A copy of the letter making the appraisal is hereto attached.

Mr. Sloan, however, informed the Chairman of the Committee that in his opinion it would be wise for the Committee to purchase said items at the price offered by Dr. Reichel.

Accordingly, the Committee adopted a resolution authorizing the President to purchase certain items at the sum of $5,600. A copy of the said resolution and of the items purchased are hereto attached.

RESOLVED, by the Mary Washington College Committee that the offer made by Dr. Frank H. Reichel to sell to the college certain draperies, rugs, furniture, garden equipment, kitchen, and lawn equipment which are enumerated in a list hereto attached at the sum of $5600 be and the same is hereby accepted, and that the President be given authority to make proper payment and accept same.

The foregoing resolution was adopted.

If I am alive on December 18, 1946, I shall have reached my sixty-fifth birthday, and therefore will be eligible for a minimum retiring allowance.

I have had a firm conviction for many years that a college president should retire early rather than late. Moreover, the management of the University of Virginia during the period of the second World War and the reconversion period has been exceedingly difficult and most onerous, taking a large toll of my physical strength. Accordingly, I tender to you, and through you to the Board of Visitors, my resignation as President of the University of Virginia, effective at the pleasure of the Board, after December 18th of this year.

For more than forty years I have given to the service of the University in various capacities whatever of energy and ability I have possessed. I do not think it necessary for me to say that I shall always remain loyal and devoted to what I believe to be the best interests of my Alma Mater. If at any time I can be useful in a purely unofficial capacity, I shall count it a happiness to be called upon.

With assurances of my good will, I have the honor to remain,

Your letter of September 9th advising me of your desire to retire as President of the University of Virginia on or soon after your sixty-fifth birthday has just reached me.

It brings a message of serious importance to the future welfare of the University and will be received, I am sure, by the Board of Visitors in a spirit of concern.

Your more than forty years service as teacher, as Dean of the Department of Engineering, and as President have reflected great credit upon you as an educator and administrator, and you have uniformly upheld the great traditions of our beloved University.

I shall place your resignation before the next meeting of the Board of Visitors and advise you in due course of its action.

With cordial regards, I am,

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE WITH REFERENCE TO THE RENOVATION AND RESTORATION OF BROMPTON
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The minutes of the regular monthly meeting of the Board held on July 12, 1946, contained the following:

"REPORT OF THE BUILDINGS COMMITTEE ON THE RENOVATION OF THE BROMPTON PROPERTY:

The Building Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met in the office of the President of the University on June 29 and reviewed the architectural plans and specifications for the renovation of Brompton of the Mary Washington College. The Committee voted unanimously to recommend to the Rector and Visitors the approval of these plans, whereupon

"The following resolution was adopted:

"RESOLVED, by the Building Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the architectural plans and specifications for the renovation of Brompton at Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia be and the same is hereby approved, and Dr. Combs be and he is hereby authorized to sign contracts on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

"The foregoing resolution was adopted by the Rector and Visitors."

Under date of August 26, 1946, Governor Tuck addressed a letter to the President of Mary Washington College, in which he stated that Mr. J. H. Bradford, Director of the Budget, had received information that instead of renovation costs being between $5,000 and $25,000 as originally estimated, the present estimates ran from $35,000 to $50,000, and that the increased cost was due, in a large measure, to the elaboration of the original plans. The Governor requested that no commitments be made on account of proposed improvements until the matter had been further considered by the Rector and Visitors of the University, and the whole plan submitted for further consideration.

Under date of August 31st, Dr. Combs wrote to Governor Tuck stating that Mr. Bradford was under an erroneous impression of the reason for the costs beyond what was originally estimated: that after the demolition work had been begun it was discovered that a portion of the kitchen and dining hall had collapsed and had to be rebuilt entirely; that the floors, joists, rafters and roof were in very bad condition and could not be saved, that the two outbuildings which formerly were slave quarters were in even worse condition; that there were no baths in any of the outbuildings nor any sanitary facilities and that consequently everything had to be replaced except the brick walls, the brick partitions, the weatherboarding in front of the kitchen and dining room; that the increased cost was not due in any large extent to the elaboration of the original plans but to the aforesaid condition of the property. He further reported to the Governor that he and Mr. Woodward had been to Richmond and took the matter up with Mr. Bradford and explained to him that the additional cost beyond the original estimate was not due in any large measure to the elaboration of the plans and that Mr. Bradford had reported to him, Dr. Combs, that the Governor had given a verbal approval for the continuation of the work.

Under the date of September 4th President Combs informed Christopher B, Garnett, the chariman of the Mary Washington Committee, that he had instructed the architects to go ahead with construction which is absolutely necessary for the preservation of the building, such as the new roof, strengthening the frame work in the attic, new rafters, the installation of the plumbing, heating and electrical work, rebuilding the back porch and dining hall unit, and new floors wherever necessary, but that the matter of whether the paneling should be adopted for certain public rooms shall not be determined until after the plastering has been done and the extra costs shall be submitted to the Governor and Mr. Bradford.

The committee therefore recommends to the Rector and Board of Visitors the following resolution be adopted:

RESOLVED, that the execution of the contract for the renovation and restoration of Brompton shall be continued but limited to the construction which is absolutely necessary for the preservation of the building such as a new roof, strengthening the framework in the attic, new rafters, installation of the plumbing, heating and electrical work, rebuilding the back porch and dining hall unit and new floors wherever necessary, but that the matter of the installation of paneling be deferred until after the plastering shall have been done and the contract therefor approved by the Director of the Budget and the Governor, and that the architect and contractor be requested to give an estimate of the cost of work already done and the cost of work to be done in order to carry out this resolution.

In the Matter of the Purchase of Certain Furniture and Furnishings from Dr. Frank H. Reichel
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At a prior meeting of the Board the offer of Dr. Reichel to sell to the Mary Washington College certain furniture and furnishings in his house, enumerated in an inventory at $26,000, was communicated to the Board and the Board authorized your Committee to have the property appraised. In accordance therewith the Chairman employed Mark McK. Sloan and Fairfax Edelen, of C. G. Sloan & Co., Inc. to make the appraisal. Before the appraisal was made, however, Dr. Reichel withdrew his offer to sell the property enumerated in his list, with the exception of certain marked items, and offered to sell the property in the marked items at $5,600.

On August 26, 1946, the aforesaid appraisers went to Fredericksburg and appraised the furniture and furnishings in said list at $4,359.50. A copy of the letter making the appraisal is hereto attached.

Mr. Sloan, however, informed the Chairman of the Committee that in his opinion it would be wise for the Committee to purchase said items at the price offered by Dr. Reichel.

Accordingly, the Committee adopted a resolution authorizing the President to purchase certain items at the sum of $5,600. A copy of the said resolution and of the items purchased are hereto attached.

If I am alive on December 18, 1946, I shall have reached my sixty-fifth birthday, and therefore will be eligible for a minimum retiring allowance.

I have had a firm conviction for many years that a college president should retire early rather than late. Moreover, the management of the University of Virginia during the period of the second World War and the reconversion period has been exceedingly difficult and most onerous, taking a large toll of my physical strength. Accordingly, I tender to you, and through you to the Board of Visitors, my resignation as President of the University of Virginia, effective at the pleasure of the Board, after December 18th of this year.

For more than forty years I have given to the service of the University in various capacities whatever of energy and ability I have possessed. I do not think it necessary for me to say that I shall always remain loyal and devoted to what I believe to be the best interests of my Alma Mater. If at any time I can be useful in a purely unofficial capacity, I shall count it a happiness to be called upon.

With assurances of my good will, I have the honor to remain,

Your letter of September 9th advising me of your desire to retire as President of the University of Virginia on or soon after your sixty-fifth birthday has just reached me.

It brings a message of serious importance to the future welfare of the University and will be received, I am sure, by the Board of Visitors in a spirit of concern.

Your more than forty years service as teacher, as Dean of the Department of Engineering, and as President have reflected great credit upon you as an educator and administrator, and you have uniformly upheld the great traditions of our beloved University.

I shall place your resignation before the next meeting of the Board of Visitors and advise you in due course of its action.

With cordial regards, I am,

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE WITH REFERENCE TO THE RENOVATION AND RESTORATION OF BROMPTON
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The minutes of the regular monthly meeting of the Board held on July 12, 1946, contained the following:

"REPORT OF THE BUILDINGS COMMITTEE ON THE RENOVATION OF THE BROMPTON PROPERTY:

The Building Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met in the office of the President of the University on June 29 and reviewed the architectural plans and specifications for the renovation of Brompton of the Mary Washington College. The Committee voted unanimously to recommend to the Rector and Visitors the approval of these plans, whereupon

"The following resolution was adopted:

"RESOLVED, by the Building Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the architectural plans and specifications for the renovation of Brompton at Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia be and the same is hereby approved, and Dr. Combs be and he is hereby authorized to sign contracts on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

"The foregoing resolution was adopted by the Rector and Visitors."

Under date of August 26, 1946, Governor Tuck addressed a letter to the President of Mary Washington College, in which he stated that Mr. J. H. Bradford, Director of the Budget, had received information that instead of renovation costs being between $5,000 and $25,000 as originally estimated, the present estimates ran from $35,000 to $50,000, and that the increased cost was due, in a large measure, to the elaboration of the original plans. The Governor requested that no commitments be made on account of proposed improvements until the matter had been further considered by the Rector and Visitors of the University, and the whole plan submitted for further consideration.

Under date of August 31st, Dr. Combs wrote to Governor Tuck stating that Mr. Bradford was under an erroneous impression of the reason for the costs beyond what was originally estimated: that after the demolition work had been begun it was discovered that a portion of the kitchen and dining hall had collapsed and had to be rebuilt entirely; that the floors, joists, rafters and roof were in very bad condition and could not be saved, that the two outbuildings which formerly were slave quarters were in even worse condition; that there were no baths in any of the outbuildings nor any sanitary facilities and that consequently everything had to be replaced except the brick walls, the brick partitions, the weatherboarding in front of the kitchen and dining room; that the increased cost was not due in any large extent to the elaboration of the original plans but to the aforesaid condition of the property. He further reported to the Governor that he and Mr. Woodward had been to Richmond and took the matter up with Mr. Bradford and explained to him that the additional cost beyond the original estimate was not due in any large measure to the elaboration of the plans and that Mr. Bradford had reported to him, Dr. Combs, that the Governor had given a verbal approval for the continuation of the work.

Under the date of September 4th President Combs informed Christopher B, Garnett, the chariman of the Mary Washington Committee, that he had instructed the architects to go ahead with construction which is absolutely necessary for the preservation of the building, such as the new roof, strengthening the frame work in the attic, new rafters, the installation of the plumbing, heating and electrical work, rebuilding the back porch and dining hall unit, and new floors wherever necessary, but that the matter of whether the paneling should be adopted for certain public rooms shall not be determined until after the plastering has been done and the extra costs shall be submitted to the Governor and Mr. Bradford.

The committee therefore recommends to the Rector and Board of Visitors the following resolution be adopted:

RESOLVED, that the execution of the contract for the renovation and restoration of Brompton shall be continued but limited to the construction which is absolutely necessary for the preservation of the building such as a new roof, strengthening the framework in the attic, new rafters, installation of the plumbing, heating and electrical work, rebuilding the back porch and dining hall unit and new floors wherever necessary, but that the matter of the installation of paneling be deferred until after the plastering shall have been done and the contract therefor approved by the Director of the Budget and the Governor, and that the architect and contractor be requested to give an estimate of the cost of work already done and the cost of work to be done in order to carry out this resolution.

In the Matter of the Purchase of Certain Furniture and Furnishings from Dr. Frank H. Reichel
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At a prior meeting of the Board the offer of Dr. Reichel to sell to the Mary Washington College certain furniture and furnishings in his house, enumerated in an inventory at $26,000, was communicated to the Board and the Board authorized your Committee to have the property appraised. In accordance therewith the Chairman employed Mark McK. Sloan and Fairfax Edelen, of C. G. Sloan & Co., Inc. to make the appraisal. Before the appraisal was made, however, Dr. Reichel withdrew his offer to sell the property enumerated in his list, with the exception of certain marked items, and offered to sell the property in the marked items at $5,600.

On August 26, 1946, the aforesaid appraisers went to Fredericksburg and appraised the furniture and furnishings in said list at $4,359.50. A copy of the letter making the appraisal is hereto attached.

Mr. Sloan, however, informed the Chairman of the Committee that in his opinion it would be wise for the Committee to purchase said items at the price offered by Dr. Reichel.

Accordingly, the Committee adopted a resolution authorizing the President to purchase certain items at the sum of $5,600. A copy of the said resolution and of the items purchased are hereto attached.