Board of Visitors minutes (1947) November 14, 1947
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

November 14, 1947

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

8 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

GIFTS DEATH OF DR. T. J. WILLIAMS ELECTIONS PROMOTION APPOINTMENT LEAVE OF ABSENCE CATHER ESTATE DEVELOPMENT FUND CONTRACT WITH THE MACMILLAN COMPANY REPORT OF THE FINE ARTS COMMITTEE APPENDIX E Estimated cost of the recommended program for Visual Fine Arts, Majors in Art for B.A. degree ALLOCATION OF CARRUTHERS HOUSE OUTDOOR SWIMMING POOL MCGREGOR LIBRARY DUNNINGTON PROPERTY ACCOUNT WITH CITIZENS BANK SALARIES OF MEDICAL FACULTY MEDICAL TUITION FOR VIRGINIA G.I.'S LOAN TO UNIVERSITY PRESS HERMITAGE FOUNDATION MATTER UNIVERSITY BUDGET MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS LEAVE OF ABSENCE COURSES IN EDUCATION HOME ECONOMICS AND COMMERCIAL COURSES AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the estate of Josephine Russell, of Portsmouth, Virginia, to be known as the Josephine Russell Fund of the McIntire Tumor Clinic, the income from the bequest to be used for tumor patients

$6,000

From the U. S. Public Health Service, a grant for research under the supervision of Dr. D. C. Smith to investigate the use of penicillin in the treatment of syphilis

$4,800

Trust fund held by Florida National Bank as of November 5, 1947

$14,570.00

from which shall be deducted the following items:

The Trustee's terminal fee

$ 412.50

Fee of Counsel for Bank

300.00

Court costs and copying record (estimated)

100.00

Pro-rata of California inheritance tax and Federal Estate Tax properly chargeable to this fund,

3,460.38

4,272.88

14,570.00

4,272.88

10,297.12

One-half to Harry L. Cather

5,148.56

One-half to University of Virginia

5,148.56

$10,297.12

$10,297.12

One part time instructor in Creative Design, lowest grade of instructor's salary

$ 2,640.00

Two assistant professors and one associate professor ($3,510.00, $3,930.00, and $4,400.00)

11,840.00

Librarian, Grade VI (Grade said necessary by Dr. Clemons)

2,160.00

Honorarium, Curator of Museum of Fine Arts

500.00

Operating expenses of School of Visual Arts

3,500.00

Increase in Museum Budget

1,900.00

$22,540.00

If lesser or minimum sums for faculty, museum curator, and museum budget are estimated

$20,000.00

1942

$ 3,500.00

1943

4,000.00

1944

7,000.00

1945

9,500.00

1946

10,000.00

The regular monthly meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 10 o'clock in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present: The Rector, Edward R. Stettinius, Jr., President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; President M. L. Combs of Mary Washington College, Visitors Anderson, Black, Calcott, Carrington, Garnett, Gay, Mears, Miller, Trout, Wailes, and Willis. Absent: Barksdale and Bustard.

The minutes of the meeting of October 10, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President made the following announcements

ENROLIMENT: 5,072.

Dr. Tiffany Johns Williams, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology from 1941 to 1947, died August 19, 1947.

Upon recommendation of the President, the following elections, promotion, appointment, and leave of absence were approved

Mr. Robert Huntington Knight as Assistant Professor of Law, beginning October 23, 1947, at a session salary of $4,000.

Mr. Neill Herbert Alford, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Law, beginning October 23, 1947, at a session salary of $4,000.

Dr. Edward L. Corey, Associate Professor of Physiology, to Professor of Physiology, at a session salary of $5,600, effective December 1, 1947.

Lieutenant Commander George M. Hagerman as Associate Professor of Naval Science, without salary from the University, beginning October 9, 1947.

Dr. Edwin Morris Betts, Associate Professor of Biology, granted leave of absence for the first semester of the session of 1947-48 for the purpose of editing Mr. Jefferson's Farm Book under a Guggenheim fellowship.

Mr. W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, presented a report concerning the Cather estate in Florida.

At a meeting held on June 15, 1945, I appeared before the Board and presented a written statement dealing with a possible interest which the University has in the estate of the late Rear Admiral David C. Cather. I also presented to the Board a form of release of the University's rights, which the University was requested by Mr. Harry Lupton Cather, brother and residuary legatee of Admiral Cather, to execute and deliver.

This statement set out in detail the facts surrounding the situation, contained a brief discussion of the law applicable to the case and concluded with the expression of my opinion that the University should not execute the proposed release.

It was, thereupon,

RESOLVED, "That the statement above referred to be filed with the minutes of this meeting and that Mr. Perkins be and is hereby instructed to advise Mr. Leslie Hall, Attorney-at-Law, Arlington, Virginia, who is representing Mr. Harry Lupton Cather in this matter, that the University cannot comply with the request that the release in question be executed and the rights of the University, if any, surrendered."

By reference to my statement above referred to, which was filed with the minutes of the meeting of June 1, 1945, it will be seen that the fund in which the University has a possible interest is held by Florida National Bank of Jacks onville under Trust Instrument executed by Rear Admiral Cather July 17, 1928, and amounts to some $14,000.00.

Upon the University's refusal to release this interest in said fund that Bank filed its bill in chancery in the Circuit Court of Duval County, Florida, asking for guidance in the distribution of this trust.

With the approval of President Newcomb I associated the law firm of Adair, Kent, Ashby and McNatt, of Jacksonville, Florida, with me in the matter, and on Wednesday, November 5, 1947, Mr. Adair and I argued the case before Judge Bryan Simpson in Jacksonville, Mr. Harry Lupton Cather being present and represented at the hearing by Mr. C. C. Copp of Jacksonville.

Upon conclusion of the argument, Mr. Adair and I were of opinion that the case was a proper one for settlement by compromise, and on Thursday, November 6, 1947, we agreed with Mr. Cather and Mr. Copp that we would recommend the following settlement to this Board upon their assurance that if the recommendation was approved by this Board the settlement would be immediately effected.

The proposed settlement is based upon the following figures:

Mr. Adair and I strongly recommend that settlement be made with Mr. Harry Lupton Cather upon the above basis.

Respectfully submitted, November 14, 1947,

/s/W. Allan Perkins Attorney for the University

The following resolution was adopted by the Board in regard to the final settlement of this estate:

RESOLVED that upon payment of $5,148.56, (or of a sum approximately equal thereto) to Vincent Shea, Bursar of the University of Virginia, by Florida National Bank of Jacksonville, Florida, as Trustee under Trust Agreement executed by Rear Admiral David C. Cather, July 17, 1928, Henry P. Adair and W. Allan Perkins, acting as Attorneys for The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, be and are hereby authorized and directed to execute, in the name and on behalf of said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and to deliver to said Florida National Bank, Trustee as aforesaid, a receipt for such payment and a release by which said Florida National Bank, Trustee as aforesaid, shall be acquitted and forever discharged from any further liability or duty to said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, arising out of, or that may be incidental to said Trust Agreement of July 17, 1928.

Mr. Edward C. Anderson presented the report of a Special Committee to The Executive Committee of The University of Virginia Development Fund, appointed by Admiral Halsey to study the method of handling and administration of funds obtained through the Development Fund campaign.

The undersigned Committee, appointed by Chairman Halsey at the meeting of the Executive Committee held September 11, 1947, to investigate and report upon the best method to be employed in the handling and administration of funds obtained through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign, respectfully advises as follows:

I. The Committee is unanimously of opinion that the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia is presently without power to constitute a new and separate Board of Trustees to hold and administer funds that may now be obtaining through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign. Its reasons for entertaining this view are as follows:

The Society of Alumni of the University of Virginia was incorporated by an Act of the General Assembly of this State, adopted February 6, 1873. By an amendment approved March 7, 1903, the name of the Society was changed to the General Alumni Association of the University of Virginia. By Section Seven of this Act, the Association was given "power to raise an endowment fund for the use and benefit of the University, to be held by the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds, and all funds belonging to said Association in excess of $1,000, and all those donated for the purpose of building a public hall, shall be similarly invested and only disposed of as they may be deemed for the purposes of the Association or the University." By Section Eight of the Act the Association was given power to receive and hold property and donations passing by grant, conveyance, demise or bequest, "under the general powers of endowment created in the Seventh Section of this Act..."

It is thus seen that under the charter of the Association at that time in effect any endowment fund raised by it for the use and benefit of the University had to be held by "the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds." Your Committee is informed that when the Association interested itself in the raising of an endowment in 1907 and 1908 at least one large donor refused to give funds which would be subject to the political control of the State of Virginia. The aforementioned sections Seven and Eight of the charter of the Association were therefore amended as of December 5, 1907, so as to authorize the Association to appoint by deed of trust a Board of seven Trustees, to be known and designated as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund." It was provided that this "Board and its successors shall be perpetual and its duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities shall be irrevocable, to hold, manage, invest and expend the funds now raised, or hereafter to be raised, or any gift or grant heretofore or hereafter made to the General Alumni Association for the use and benefit of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter and the provisions of said deed of trust herein authorized to be executed, which deed shall define the duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities of said Board."

Pursuant to the foregoing provisions of the charter of the Association, as amended, it executed on February 15, 1908, a deed to Joseph Bryan, Thomas Nelson Page, Thomas F. Ryan, Alexander P. Humphrey, Charles J. Faulkner and Williamson W. Fuller, and Edwin A. Alderman, President of the University of Virginia, ex officio, Trustees, to be known as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" transferring and conveying "all gifts, funds, moneys, investments or subscriptions now made or which may hereafter be made, to the said Trustees for the use and benefit of the University of Virginia," together with "all such grants, gifts, funds, moneys, investments, interest, credit, bonds, notes, or subscriptions that may hereafter be made of every character or description whatsoever, including income, revenues, issues and profits thereof, either directly to the Trustees, parties of the second part, or to this Association for the benefit of the University of Virginia."

While the charter of the Association has since three times been amended, on August 4, 1922, January 24, 1929 and September 9, 1933, the rights, powers and duties of the Trustees and their successors, appointed by the aforesaid deed of trust of February 15, 1908, have been fully preserved, it having been expressly provided in the amendment of September 9, 1933, that -

"It (the Alumni Board) shall hold, manage, invest and expend, the funds raised or hereafter to be raised, or any gifts or grants heretofore or hereafter made by will, deed or otherwise, to it, or to the Alumni Association for the use and benefit of the said Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter."

It seems to your Committee, therefore, that title to any funds presently solicited by, or obtained as a result of the efforts of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia would necessarily pass to "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" created by the deed of February 15, 1908, and their successors presently in office. The execution of a further or additional deed of trust at this time, whereby a new board of trustees would be created for the purpose of receiving title to, possession and control of funds likely to be raised in the present campaign would not, therefore, in the opinion of the Committee, be presently within the power of the Association.

II. In this situation a majority of your Committee, Messrs. Scott and Hildreth, are of opinion that a new non-profit, non-stock corporation should be organized under the provisions of Chapter 151 of the Code of Virginia, to be designated as "The University of Virginia Development Fund," that there be seven Trustees presently selected and named to manage the affairs and investments of the corporation, and that the President of the University be at all times, ex officio, a Trustee of the corporation; that the first seven Trustees be selected by this Executive Committee to serve for terms of one to seven years, respectively, the term of each Trustee to be determined by lot after their selection by the Executive Committee; that no Trustee drawing a term of more than three years shall be eligible for re-election but that any Trustee drawing a term of three years or less shall be eligible for election for one additional term of seven years, that the first seven Trustees be selected without reference to their respective ages, but that all successor Trustees shall be of the age of 57 years or less, so that upon the expiration of their respective seven year terms of service they would have attained an age of not to exceed 65 years; that all successor Trustees be nominated by a majority vote of the Trustees then in office, such nominations to receive the approval of the majority of the Board of Managers of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia in attendance upon any meeting at which the selection of a successor Trustee shall come before the Board of Managers for consideration and action; that for each vacancy the trustees then in office shall nominate three persons, one of whom shall be selected by the Board of Managers in the manner stated; that no member of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia shall be selected either as an original or successor Trustee; that the charter of the corporation provide that all securities held by it shall be placed in the possession, as custodian, of some trust company or companies or bank or banks having trust powers, and that the corporation may in its discretion employ the services of some corporation or individual, or duly accredited officer of the University, as investment counsel and/or custodian; that the corporation shall apply faithfully the gifts or grants to the objects or purposes designated by the donor or grantor, but when no direction, condition or limitation is attached to the gift or grant, the corporation shall hold the same with full power to invest and reinvest in accordance with the discretion of its Trustees, and such portion as the Trustees may deem necessary of the income and/or principal from any and all funds at any time held by the corporation shall, except as otherwise specifically required and provided by the donor or grantor, be applied to the needs of the University of Virginia after full conference with the President and Rector and the Corporation shall pay the same, to the Bursar of the University, to be expended as directed by the Corporation; that the corporation, acting through its Board of Trustees, shall have the broadest investment discretion and special care should be taken in the preparation of its charter to see that its powers are expressed in terms in conformity with modern investment practice.

If such development fund corporation is organized, Mr. Gay concurs in the statements in this report as to the manner of its creation, the selection of its director-trustees and the manner in which they and the corporation shall function, but reserves for further consideration any expression of opinion upon the question whether, in the over-all interest of the University, it is wise and expedient to create at this time a new agency for holding and administering funds procured through the conduct of the campaign presently being undertaken.

Mr. Gay pointed out the problem of handling gifts received by the Alumni Association. Under present trust agreement, all funds received by the Alumni Association must be paid to the present Alumni Board of Trustees. He pointed out that no other Board of Trustees can be appointed by the Alumni Association to receive funds. Mr. Gay believes conflict would result between new Development Fund Corporation trustees and the present Alumni Board of Trustees. He recommended that the Board continue looking for some other way to solve this problem.

Part of Mr. Gay's recommendation was deleted - that part providing for the Development Fund Trustees to consult with the Board of Visitors concerning the expenditure of income of the Development Fund.

Mr. Anderson stated that the present Alumni Board of Trustees has not actively solicited funds, nor is it their duty to do so. The new Development Fund expects to continuously solicit funds with definite goals to be attained.

Mr. Stettinius expressed the view that the Alumni Board of Trustees should be consulted.

President Darden stated he believed everything should be done to work through the present Alumni Board of Trustees. He agreed to discuss with the Alumni Board of Trustees this whole problem on December 6.

The Board endorsed the action of the President in signing a contract with The MacMillan Company for the publication of Professor James Hart's book entitled "The American Presidency in Action: 1789."

The following report was submitted by a special committee to study the advisability of establishing a School of Fine Arts, in accordance with a resolution adopted at a meeting of the Board on September 12, 1947, and was approved as submitted.

The special Committee in respect to the School of Fine Arts, appointed October 8, 1947, by the Dean of the College in pursuance of a resolution of the Rector and Visitors has the honor to submit the following report.

The Committee recommends,

1\. That the facilities of the McIntire School of Fine Arts be expanded sufficiently to provide;

(a) Elementary courses in drawing, modeling, and creative design suitable for election by any candidate for the degree of Bachelor of Arts; and

(b) Advanced courses in drawing and modeling and elementary painting, sculpture, and graphic arts of an adequate number and variety to make a strong field of concentration as major subjects for the Bachelor of Arts degree.

2\. That in order to carry out the above program there should be added to the faculty a teacher of drawing and graphic arts, a teacher of advanced drawing and painting, a teacher of modeling and sculpture, and a part time teacher of creative design; and also a fine arts librarian; and further, expanded resources for the Fine Arts Library and the Museum of Fine Arts be provided.

The Chairman of the Committee has prepared the attached appendixes that are informative of existing and needed facilities to carry out the two recommendations. The Committee transmits these appendixes as the special statement of the member of the Committee best in position to give the information.

If satisfactory appointees could be obtained for lesser grades of faculty members than estimated, the budget might be squeezed down $1,000.00. It is more likely to secure the right men it will have to be squeezed in the higher direction. Combination of skills of the teachers is another factor. Without someone of experience in teaching who can assume the direction of the visual arts there is an impossible administrative situation. The present Professor of Art and Architecture desires to drop the first half of his title. Teaching the subject of most importance, guiding all the design, and administration of architecture is a full load and added to this is the direction of the Fine Arts Library and of the Museum. The latter two you are urged to provide for. In September the visual arts should be on their feet enough to have a member of that staff assume direction.

Salaries in the above budget are subject to periodical increases.

The teacher of advanced work need not be appointed for the first year of operation and his estimated salary should be used that year for purchases of new equipment; otherwise, there should be $4,000.00 set up for new equipment. The Architectural School contributes a large amount of equipment.

The allocation of the house on East Range formerly occupied by Mr. E. I. Carruthers was referred to the Buildings and Grounds Committee with authority to act.

The following report on the progress of plans for an outdoor swimming pool was presented by Mr. Christopher B. Garnett, Chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee.

The Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors, meeting today in Charlottesville, adopted the following resolution to present to the Board:

We recommend to the Board that the site of the outdoor swimming pool be on the location of the present reflecting pool for the following reasons:

1) Construction of the swimming pool will remove the present hazard and eyesore.

2) It will be convenient to the Gymnasium and proposed Student Union Building.

3) It can be used as part of the development of a beautiful area.

The Committee feels that the pool must be highly sanitary and that necessary construction be carried out to make it available to women students.

We recommend that the architects chosen for the construction of the new dormitories and Student Union Building of the University be requested to make a study and prepare plans for consideration for such a pool and landscape gardening of the area.

The following resolution was adopted:

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, having reviewed the report of the Curator of the McGregor Library for the period of its first ten years, hereby resolve.

That the gift of this great collection of Americana, the first such Library to come to the South, has had an inestimable value in the advancement of the humanistic studies at the University and that its effect on the life and culture of the South and of the nation, though not measurable in exact terms, has been extensive and wholesome;

That by attracting scholars to the University, not less than by making available to its own faculty and students the historical monuments of our past, it has fostered the growth of the understanding of our own heritage; that it has strengthened the traditional Virginian beliefs in our American forms of life and government; that it has served to broaden and interpret the influence and meaning of the expression "Jeffersonian Democracy"; and that it has stimulated the study and appreciation of history in a manner and by a means not heretofore available in this region of the United States.

That the Rector and Visitors have observed with profound satisfaction the steady growth of the McGregor Library and its services to many schools of the University; that at least one tangible measurement of the Library's influence can be found in the phenomenal increase in the study of history since the establishment of the McGregor Library, the faculty in American history having exactly doubled, and during this same ten-year period, the graduate enrollment of students in history having come to exceed that of all other schools in the humanities, while undergraduate enrollment has jumped to nearly one thousand students, giving history third place among the undergraduate schools.

That any diminution of the income of the McGregor Library for acquisitions, with resultant decrease of strength and usefulness, would be viewed by the Rector and Visitors with the keenest regret.

The Rector and Visitors further resolve that for the next ensuing ten years they propose to continue at least in its present strength and capacity the staff and maintenance of the Rare Book and Manuscript Division of its Library, of which the McGregor Library is an integral and important part; that the $2,500.00 which has annually for ten years been spent by the University for additions to the McGregor Library be reassigned to the Rare Book and Manuscript Division for the next ensuing ten years, and in the event of further appropriations from McGregor Fund that this money or appropriate parts of it be specifically designated for additions to the McGregor Library in the same manner as under the original Deed of Gift.

They resolve further that application be made by the President of the University to McGregor Fund for a ten-year annual grant for additions to the McGregor Library, so that the growth of the library along the lines laid out by the late Tracy W. McGregor and the Trustees of McGregor Fund may be continued at least on its present level.

That the Rector and Visitors would be especially gratified if the Trustees of McGregor Fund would consider an eventual endowment of the McGregor Library, which would constitute a lasting guarantee that this "Library of American History" would maintain the permanent and continuous growth essential to the vitality of such a library.

That the Rector and Visitors would urge upon the Trustees the continuance of the wise counsel and friendly help of an Advisory Committee for the McGregor Library such as has met semiannually during this ten-year period, and that they would hope that the Trustees of McGregor Fund would be willing to have representatives from their number continue to serve on such a committee.

A proposal to lease part of the Dunnington property for the erection of an ice-cream and soft-drink stand was disapproved by the Board.

A request from the Citizens Bank and Trust Company that the University open an account with that bank was presented and was referred to the President with power to act.

The President reported on a conference with the clinicians of the Department of Medicine, and action on this matter was deferred until the December meeting of the Board.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that medical contracts for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1947 be settled on the basis of the previous year's contracts.

The President made a report on the study of the tuition of Virginia veterans in the Medical School, in which he recommended the awarding of scholarships to these veterans. The Board approved the awarding of such scholarships, the amount to each individual not to exceed the difference between the tuition rates for Virginians and non-Virginians.

The report of the President on a petition from the University Press for a loan from the endowment funds for new equipment was referred to the Finance Committee with power to act.

The Committee appointed at the July 11 meeting of the Board to meet with Mrs. Sloane for a discussion of the Hermitage Foundation matter, presented the following report.

The Committee appointed by the Rector to investigate and report on the proposal of Mrs. Florence K. Sloane that there be an arrangement made between the Hermitage Foundation and the University of Virginia, whereby the latter would direct and carry on the work of the Foundation after Mrs. Sloane's death, respectfully reports as follows:

The Hermitage Foundation is a charitable corporation organized in 1937 under the laws of the State of Virginia.

It is the owner by deed from Mr. and Mrs. William Sloane of a tract of land of seven acres located in Lochhaven, an extremely desirable residential section of the City of Norfolk. The property is in the form of a peninsula jutting out into the Lafayette River. There are three buildings, in the English Tudor Style, the major one being partially occupied as the home of Mrs. Sloane.

This house has fourteen galleries filled with many rare paintings and objects of art, with special emphasis on Eastern art. This is the lifetime collection of Mr. and Mrs. Sloane and it has been transferred to the Foundation.

A copy of a newspaper clipping giving a more detailed description of the property and containing pictures of the house and of some of the objects of art is attached hereto.

At the present time the building or museum is open from Tuesday through Saturday from 1:00 to 5:00 p.m., and on Sunday from 2:00 to 6:00 p.m. In addition a series of art lessons for both children and adults is conducted in another building.

The Committee has received the general impression that the facilities of the museum were not being very widely used, perhaps due to the rather remote location, and possibly also to the manner in which it has been conducted.

The Foundation is now being financed by the income from an irrevocable trust created by Mrs. Sloane. The trustee, The Guaranty Trust Company, now holds the principal sum of approximately $270,000; the income from this fund for the last five years has been as follows:

Under the terms of the trust nine-tenths of each year's income is available for the support of the Foundation. The remaining tenth is added to the principal until $100,000 is accumulated when the entire income becomes payable to the Foundation.

Under the will of William Sloane, a trust was created of which the present principal amounts to $250,000. This sum is held in trust for the life of Mrs. Sloane. Under its terms she was given the power to invade the principal, but she is about to surrender this power. Upon the death of Mrs. Sloane one-half of the principal is paid to the Foundation and the balance is to be divided into two funds, each of which is to be held in trust for the life of one of Mrs. Sloane's sons. Upon the death of each son the principal of his trust is to be paid over to the Foundation.

Mrs. Sloane's will also makes a bequest to The Hermitage Trust, of an amount estimated to be at least $100,000.00. This will make an aggregate ultimate amount available to the Foundation, directly or through the trust, of not less than $620,000.00.

The buildings upon The Hermitage property, and owned by The Foundation, are valued at approximately $225,000.00. The extensive water frontage enhances the value of the land. It is conservatively estimated by real estate agents to be worth $150,000.00.

The art objects, paintings and the like, which are the property of the museum or Foundation, are estimated to be worth $200,000.00.

Thus the aggregate involved in value in the proposal made by Mrs. Sloane is at least $1,200,000.

Mrs. Sloane proposes that the University of Virginia have a minority representation on the Board of Trustees of the Foundation during her lifetime - (she is a woman well over seventy), that the name of the University be linked with that of the Hermitage Foundation; that the University, through its representatives on the Board, contribute advice and assistance in the conduct of the museum and school. She would be willing to agree in advance to a definite program of activities. She would reserve for herself and her family a portion of the second floor of the museum building for living quarters.

Upon Mrs. Sloane's death she would expect the University to have a majority representation on the Foundation Board, although she would like to continue to have her family represented thereon for a period of years.

Mrs. Sloane's proposal contemplates that the present plans of the Foundation be carried out in general by the maintenance of the museum and art classes in Norfolk. If it should appear subsequently that public interest in these activities has ceased, or if the site should become undesirable, Mrs. Sloane would be willing for the activities of the Foundation to be transferred to Charlottesville to a suitable fireproof, air conditioned building which could be erected, we believe, with the proceeds of the real estate in Norfolk. She expresses a desire to have the building in Charlottesville patterned as closely as possible on the present building in order that the beautiful panelling, part of which was imported from Europe, may be reinstalled and the paintings appropriately reestablished. The committee doubts that the English Tudor style of house, in which style the museum is constructed, would harmonize with the architecture at the University. However, while the point has not been discussed with Mrs. Sloane, we do not believe that she would insist on the building being reconstructed exactly as it now is if the activities were transferred to Charlottesville.

The Committee does not believe it wise to approach the matter with any idea of transferring these activities from Norfolk because extremely unfavorable political implications might arise from any report that such a step were contemplated. However, it can do no harm to have in the agreement with the Foundation a saving provision to the effect that the property could be sold and activities removed.

It is the view of the Committee that the proposal of Mrs. Sloane is an attractive one, involving as it does in itself little or no increased financial obligation.

However, the Committee considers that it would be an anomalous situation for the University to undertake what might be described as an extension or branch in the fine arts in view of the fact that there is no present school of painting and sculpture at the University. Indeed, Mrs. Sloane's proposal is predicated upon the establishment of such a school.

The Committee, therefore respectfully reports that the first decision to be reached is whether or not the University desires to establish a School of Painting and Sculpture. That decision must, of course, be made by the Board, after whatever study and investigation it may deem proper.

The matter has some urgency because we are informed that on account of her age Mrs. Sloane desires to settle as promptly as possible the carrying on of the activities of the museum. In addition, the letter from her attorney informs us that she has been approached by another large institution of learning outside of Virginia. She, however, would prefer an affiliation with an institution within the State.

The Committee spent the better part of a day conferring with Mrs. Sloane and viewing the property and its contents. In addition the chairman has had four conferences with Mrs. Sloane.

The Board directed that a copy of the Report of the Fine Arts Committee be transmitted by Mr. Barron Black to Mrs. Florence K. Sloane to show intent of the Board to comply with one of the provisions under which the Hermitage Foundation might be transferred to the University of Virginia.

The Rector proposed that a summary of the biennial budget requests for 1948-1950 be prepared and sent to the members of the Board, and that the Bursar submit to the Finance Committee the detailed University budget on Wednesday, November 19.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that the request of Dr. E. Boyd Graves, Associate Professor of Philosophy, for a leave of absence, beginning February 1, 1948, and extending for a period of twenty-four months, be and the same is hereby granted.

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, at a meeting of the Board held September 12, 1947, the following resolution was adopted:

"Resolved by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that in view of the critical shortage of public school teachers that Mary Washington College be and is hereby permitted to retain two elective courses in education so as to enable graduates to secure the Collegiate Professional Certificate, provided the Attorney General agrees that such procedure is legal" - and

WHEREAS, Dr. Combs has this day reported to the Board that upon taking up the matter with the Attorney General of Virginia, he stated that he was of opinion that the Board should exercise its own judgment and discretion in the matter; and

WHEREAS, after considerable discussion of the provisions of Section 833e of the Code of Virginia, as embodied in the Act approved February 22, 1944, dealing with the conversion of Mary Washington College into a liberal arts college for women during a period of four years next ensuing, and the requirement that after that date "no student shall be admitted to technical courses designed for the training of teachers, except those who can qualify for advanced standing leading to graduation, within a period of four years"; and

WHEREAS, it is the consensus of opinion of the Board that the term "courses" as used in Section 833e of the Code means completed programs of study or curricula leading to a professional degree in education, and that the retention of two elective courses or classes in education to be counted toward a B.A. degree will not be violative of the intent or purpose of the Act of the General Assembly above referred to;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the aforesaid action of the Board of Visitors, as expressed in the resolution adopted at the meeting held September 12, 1947, be and the same hereby is ratified, approved and confirmed; provided, however, that not more than twelve hours credit toward a B.A. degree (requiring at all times a minimum of 126 hours) be granted toward classes or courses of this nature.

A study group consisting of the Mary Washington Committee, President Darden, and President Combs was appointed to consider the continuance of these courses. They were directed to report to a special meeting of the Board, to be called by President Darden at the request of the Mary Washington Committee.

There being no further business to come before the meeting, the same was adjourned after a motion to that effect had been made, seconded, and carried.

The undersigned Committee, appointed by Chairman Halsey at the meeting of the Executive Committee held September 11, 1947, to investigate and report upon the best method to be employed in the handling and administration of funds obtained through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign, respectfully advises as follows:

I. The Committee is unanimously of opinion that the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia is presently without power to constitute a new and separate Board of Trustees to hold and administer funds that may now be obtaining through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign. Its reasons for entertaining this view are as follows:

The Society of Alumni of the University of Virginia was incorporated by an Act of the General Assembly of this State, adopted February 6, 1873. By an amendment approved March 7, 1903, the name of the Society was changed to the General Alumni Association of the University of Virginia. By Section Seven of this Act, the Association was given "power to raise an endowment fund for the use and benefit of the University, to be held by the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds, and all funds belonging to said Association in excess of $1,000, and all those donated for the purpose of building a public hall, shall be similarly invested and only disposed of as they may be deemed for the purposes of the Association or the University." By Section Eight of the Act the Association was given power to receive and hold property and donations passing by grant, conveyance, demise or bequest, "under the general powers of endowment created in the Seventh Section of this Act..."

It is thus seen that under the charter of the Association at that time in effect any endowment fund raised by it for the use and benefit of the University had to be held by "the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds." Your Committee is informed that when the Association interested itself in the raising of an endowment in 1907 and 1908 at least one large donor refused to give funds which would be subject to the political control of the State of Virginia. The aforementioned sections Seven and Eight of the charter of the Association were therefore amended as of December 5, 1907, so as to authorize the Association to appoint by deed of trust a Board of seven Trustees, to be known and designated as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund." It was provided that this "Board and its successors shall be perpetual and its duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities shall be irrevocable, to hold, manage, invest and expend the funds now raised, or hereafter to be raised, or any gift or grant heretofore or hereafter made to the General Alumni Association for the use and benefit of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter and the provisions of said deed of trust herein authorized to be executed, which deed shall define the duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities of said Board."

Pursuant to the foregoing provisions of the charter of the Association, as amended, it executed on February 15, 1908, a deed to Joseph Bryan, Thomas Nelson Page, Thomas F. Ryan, Alexander P. Humphrey, Charles J. Faulkner and Williamson W. Fuller, and Edwin A. Alderman, President of the University of Virginia, ex officio, Trustees, to be known as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" transferring and conveying "all gifts, funds, moneys, investments or subscriptions now made or which may hereafter be made, to the said Trustees for the use and benefit of the University of Virginia," together with "all such grants, gifts, funds, moneys, investments, interest, credit, bonds, notes, or subscriptions that may hereafter be made of every character or description whatsoever, including income, revenues, issues and profits thereof, either directly to the Trustees, parties of the second part, or to this Association for the benefit of the University of Virginia."

While the charter of the Association has since three times been amended, on August 4, 1922, January 24, 1929 and September 9, 1933, the rights, powers and duties of the Trustees and their successors, appointed by the aforesaid deed of trust of February 15, 1908, have been fully preserved, it having been expressly provided in the amendment of September 9, 1933, that -

"It (the Alumni Board) shall hold, manage, invest and expend, the funds raised or hereafter to be raised, or any gifts or grants heretofore or hereafter made by will, deed or otherwise, to it, or to the Alumni Association for the use and benefit of the said Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter."

It seems to your Committee, therefore, that title to any funds presently solicited by, or obtained as a result of the efforts of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia would necessarily pass to "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" created by the deed of February 15, 1908, and their successors presently in office. The execution of a further or additional deed of trust at this time, whereby a new board of trustees would be created for the purpose of receiving title to, possession and control of funds likely to be raised in the present campaign would not, therefore, in the opinion of the Committee, be presently within the power of the Association.

II. In this situation a majority of your Committee, Messrs. Scott and Hildreth, are of opinion that a new non-profit, non-stock corporation should be organized under the provisions of Chapter 151 of the Code of Virginia, to be designated as "The University of Virginia Development Fund," that there be seven Trustees presently selected and named to manage the affairs and investments of the corporation, and that the President of the University be at all times, ex officio, a Trustee of the corporation; that the first seven Trustees be selected by this Executive Committee to serve for terms of one to seven years, respectively, the term of each Trustee to be determined by lot after their selection by the Executive Committee; that no Trustee drawing a term of more than three years shall be eligible for re-election but that any Trustee drawing a term of three years or less shall be eligible for election for one additional term of seven years, that the first seven Trustees be selected without reference to their respective ages, but that all successor Trustees shall be of the age of 57 years or less, so that upon the expiration of their respective seven year terms of service they would have attained an age of not to exceed 65 years; that all successor Trustees be nominated by a majority vote of the Trustees then in office, such nominations to receive the approval of the majority of the Board of Managers of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia in attendance upon any meeting at which the selection of a successor Trustee shall come before the Board of Managers for consideration and action; that for each vacancy the trustees then in office shall nominate three persons, one of whom shall be selected by the Board of Managers in the manner stated; that no member of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia shall be selected either as an original or successor Trustee; that the charter of the corporation provide that all securities held by it shall be placed in the possession, as custodian, of some trust company or companies or bank or banks having trust powers, and that the corporation may in its discretion employ the services of some corporation or individual, or duly accredited officer of the University, as investment counsel and/or custodian; that the corporation shall apply faithfully the gifts or grants to the objects or purposes designated by the donor or grantor, but when no direction, condition or limitation is attached to the gift or grant, the corporation shall hold the same with full power to invest and reinvest in accordance with the discretion of its Trustees, and such portion as the Trustees may deem necessary of the income and/or principal from any and all funds at any time held by the corporation shall, except as otherwise specifically required and provided by the donor or grantor, be applied to the needs of the University of Virginia after full conference with the President and Rector and the Corporation shall pay the same, to the Bursar of the University, to be expended as directed by the Corporation; that the corporation, acting through its Board of Trustees, shall have the broadest investment discretion and special care should be taken in the preparation of its charter to see that its powers are expressed in terms in conformity with modern investment practice.

If such development fund corporation is organized, Mr. Gay concurs in the statements in this report as to the manner of its creation, the selection of its director-trustees and the manner in which they and the corporation shall function, but reserves for further consideration any expression of opinion upon the question whether, in the over-all interest of the University, it is wise and expedient to create at this time a new agency for holding and administering funds procured through the conduct of the campaign presently being undertaken.

The special Committee in respect to the School of Fine Arts, appointed October 8, 1947, by the Dean of the College in pursuance of a resolution of the Rector and Visitors has the honor to submit the following report.

The Committee recommends,

1\. That the facilities of the McIntire School of Fine Arts be expanded sufficiently to provide;

(a) Elementary courses in drawing, modeling, and creative design suitable for election by any candidate for the degree of Bachelor of Arts; and

(b) Advanced courses in drawing and modeling and elementary painting, sculpture, and graphic arts of an adequate number and variety to make a strong field of concentration as major subjects for the Bachelor of Arts degree.

2\. That in order to carry out the above program there should be added to the faculty a teacher of drawing and graphic arts, a teacher of advanced drawing and painting, a teacher of modeling and sculpture, and a part time teacher of creative design; and also a fine arts librarian; and further, expanded resources for the Fine Arts Library and the Museum of Fine Arts be provided.

The Chairman of the Committee has prepared the attached appendixes that are informative of existing and needed facilities to carry out the two recommendations. The Committee transmits these appendixes as the special statement of the member of the Committee best in position to give the information.

The Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors, meeting today in Charlottesville, adopted the following resolution to present to the Board:

We recommend to the Board that the site of the outdoor swimming pool be on the location of the present reflecting pool for the following reasons:

1) Construction of the swimming pool will remove the present hazard and eyesore.

2) It will be convenient to the Gymnasium and proposed Student Union Building.

3) It can be used as part of the development of a beautiful area.

The Committee feels that the pool must be highly sanitary and that necessary construction be carried out to make it available to women students.

We recommend that the architects chosen for the construction of the new dormitories and Student Union Building of the University be requested to make a study and prepare plans for consideration for such a pool and landscape gardening of the area.

1942

$ 3,500.00

1943

4,000.00

1944

7,000.00

1945

9,500.00

1946

10,000.00

The Committee appointed by the Rector to investigate and report on the proposal of Mrs. Florence K. Sloane that there be an arrangement made between the Hermitage Foundation and the University of Virginia, whereby the latter would direct and carry on the work of the Foundation after Mrs. Sloane's death, respectfully reports as follows:

The Hermitage Foundation is a charitable corporation organized in 1937 under the laws of the State of Virginia.

It is the owner by deed from Mr. and Mrs. William Sloane of a tract of land of seven acres located in Lochhaven, an extremely desirable residential section of the City of Norfolk. The property is in the form of a peninsula jutting out into the Lafayette River. There are three buildings, in the English Tudor Style, the major one being partially occupied as the home of Mrs. Sloane.

This house has fourteen galleries filled with many rare paintings and objects of art, with special emphasis on Eastern art. This is the lifetime collection of Mr. and Mrs. Sloane and it has been transferred to the Foundation.

A copy of a newspaper clipping giving a more detailed description of the property and containing pictures of the house and of some of the objects of art is attached hereto.

At the present time the building or museum is open from Tuesday through Saturday from 1:00 to 5:00 p.m., and on Sunday from 2:00 to 6:00 p.m. In addition a series of art lessons for both children and adults is conducted in another building.

The Committee has received the general impression that the facilities of the museum were not being very widely used, perhaps due to the rather remote location, and possibly also to the manner in which it has been conducted.

The Foundation is now being financed by the income from an irrevocable trust created by Mrs. Sloane. The trustee, The Guaranty Trust Company, now holds the principal sum of approximately $270,000; the income from this fund for the last five years has been as follows:

Under the terms of the trust nine-tenths of each year's income is available for the support of the Foundation. The remaining tenth is added to the principal until $100,000 is accumulated when the entire income becomes payable to the Foundation.

Under the will of William Sloane, a trust was created of which the present principal amounts to $250,000. This sum is held in trust for the life of Mrs. Sloane. Under its terms she was given the power to invade the principal, but she is about to surrender this power. Upon the death of Mrs. Sloane one-half of the principal is paid to the Foundation and the balance is to be divided into two funds, each of which is to be held in trust for the life of one of Mrs. Sloane's sons. Upon the death of each son the principal of his trust is to be paid over to the Foundation.

Mrs. Sloane's will also makes a bequest to The Hermitage Trust, of an amount estimated to be at least $100,000.00. This will make an aggregate ultimate amount available to the Foundation, directly or through the trust, of not less than $620,000.00.

The buildings upon The Hermitage property, and owned by The Foundation, are valued at approximately $225,000.00. The extensive water frontage enhances the value of the land. It is conservatively estimated by real estate agents to be worth $150,000.00.

The art objects, paintings and the like, which are the property of the museum or Foundation, are estimated to be worth $200,000.00.

Thus the aggregate involved in value in the proposal made by Mrs. Sloane is at least $1,200,000.

Mrs. Sloane proposes that the University of Virginia have a minority representation on the Board of Trustees of the Foundation during her lifetime - (she is a woman well over seventy), that the name of the University be linked with that of the Hermitage Foundation; that the University, through its representatives on the Board, contribute advice and assistance in the conduct of the museum and school. She would be willing to agree in advance to a definite program of activities. She would reserve for herself and her family a portion of the second floor of the museum building for living quarters.

Upon Mrs. Sloane's death she would expect the University to have a majority representation on the Foundation Board, although she would like to continue to have her family represented thereon for a period of years.

Mrs. Sloane's proposal contemplates that the present plans of the Foundation be carried out in general by the maintenance of the museum and art classes in Norfolk. If it should appear subsequently that public interest in these activities has ceased, or if the site should become undesirable, Mrs. Sloane would be willing for the activities of the Foundation to be transferred to Charlottesville to a suitable fireproof, air conditioned building which could be erected, we believe, with the proceeds of the real estate in Norfolk. She expresses a desire to have the building in Charlottesville patterned as closely as possible on the present building in order that the beautiful panelling, part of which was imported from Europe, may be reinstalled and the paintings appropriately reestablished. The committee doubts that the English Tudor style of house, in which style the museum is constructed, would harmonize with the architecture at the University. However, while the point has not been discussed with Mrs. Sloane, we do not believe that she would insist on the building being reconstructed exactly as it now is if the activities were transferred to Charlottesville.

The Committee does not believe it wise to approach the matter with any idea of transferring these activities from Norfolk because extremely unfavorable political implications might arise from any report that such a step were contemplated. However, it can do no harm to have in the agreement with the Foundation a saving provision to the effect that the property could be sold and activities removed.

It is the view of the Committee that the proposal of Mrs. Sloane is an attractive one, involving as it does in itself little or no increased financial obligation.

However, the Committee considers that it would be an anomalous situation for the University to undertake what might be described as an extension or branch in the fine arts in view of the fact that there is no present school of painting and sculpture at the University. Indeed, Mrs. Sloane's proposal is predicated upon the establishment of such a school.

The Committee, therefore respectfully reports that the first decision to be reached is whether or not the University desires to establish a School of Painting and Sculpture. That decision must, of course, be made by the Board, after whatever study and investigation it may deem proper.

The matter has some urgency because we are informed that on account of her age Mrs. Sloane desires to settle as promptly as possible the carrying on of the activities of the museum. In addition, the letter from her attorney informs us that she has been approached by another large institution of learning outside of Virginia. She, however, would prefer an affiliation with an institution within the State.

The Committee spent the better part of a day conferring with Mrs. Sloane and viewing the property and its contents. In addition the chairman has had four conferences with Mrs. Sloane.

The undersigned Committee, appointed by Chairman Halsey at the meeting of the Executive Committee held September 11, 1947, to investigate and report upon the best method to be employed in the handling and administration of funds obtained through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign, respectfully advises as follows:

I. The Committee is unanimously of opinion that the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia is presently without power to constitute a new and separate Board of Trustees to hold and administer funds that may now be obtaining through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign. Its reasons for entertaining this view are as follows:

The Society of Alumni of the University of Virginia was incorporated by an Act of the General Assembly of this State, adopted February 6, 1873. By an amendment approved March 7, 1903, the name of the Society was changed to the General Alumni Association of the University of Virginia. By Section Seven of this Act, the Association was given "power to raise an endowment fund for the use and benefit of the University, to be held by the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds, and all funds belonging to said Association in excess of $1,000, and all those donated for the purpose of building a public hall, shall be similarly invested and only disposed of as they may be deemed for the purposes of the Association or the University." By Section Eight of the Act the Association was given power to receive and hold property and donations passing by grant, conveyance, demise or bequest, "under the general powers of endowment created in the Seventh Section of this Act..."

It is thus seen that under the charter of the Association at that time in effect any endowment fund raised by it for the use and benefit of the University had to be held by "the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds." Your Committee is informed that when the Association interested itself in the raising of an endowment in 1907 and 1908 at least one large donor refused to give funds which would be subject to the political control of the State of Virginia. The aforementioned sections Seven and Eight of the charter of the Association were therefore amended as of December 5, 1907, so as to authorize the Association to appoint by deed of trust a Board of seven Trustees, to be known and designated as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund." It was provided that this "Board and its successors shall be perpetual and its duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities shall be irrevocable, to hold, manage, invest and expend the funds now raised, or hereafter to be raised, or any gift or grant heretofore or hereafter made to the General Alumni Association for the use and benefit of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter and the provisions of said deed of trust herein authorized to be executed, which deed shall define the duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities of said Board."

Pursuant to the foregoing provisions of the charter of the Association, as amended, it executed on February 15, 1908, a deed to Joseph Bryan, Thomas Nelson Page, Thomas F. Ryan, Alexander P. Humphrey, Charles J. Faulkner and Williamson W. Fuller, and Edwin A. Alderman, President of the University of Virginia, ex officio, Trustees, to be known as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" transferring and conveying "all gifts, funds, moneys, investments or subscriptions now made or which may hereafter be made, to the said Trustees for the use and benefit of the University of Virginia," together with "all such grants, gifts, funds, moneys, investments, interest, credit, bonds, notes, or subscriptions that may hereafter be made of every character or description whatsoever, including income, revenues, issues and profits thereof, either directly to the Trustees, parties of the second part, or to this Association for the benefit of the University of Virginia."

While the charter of the Association has since three times been amended, on August 4, 1922, January 24, 1929 and September 9, 1933, the rights, powers and duties of the Trustees and their successors, appointed by the aforesaid deed of trust of February 15, 1908, have been fully preserved, it having been expressly provided in the amendment of September 9, 1933, that -

"It (the Alumni Board) shall hold, manage, invest and expend, the funds raised or hereafter to be raised, or any gifts or grants heretofore or hereafter made by will, deed or otherwise, to it, or to the Alumni Association for the use and benefit of the said Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter."

It seems to your Committee, therefore, that title to any funds presently solicited by, or obtained as a result of the efforts of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia would necessarily pass to "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" created by the deed of February 15, 1908, and their successors presently in office. The execution of a further or additional deed of trust at this time, whereby a new board of trustees would be created for the purpose of receiving title to, possession and control of funds likely to be raised in the present campaign would not, therefore, in the opinion of the Committee, be presently within the power of the Association.

II. In this situation a majority of your Committee, Messrs. Scott and Hildreth, are of opinion that a new non-profit, non-stock corporation should be organized under the provisions of Chapter 151 of the Code of Virginia, to be designated as "The University of Virginia Development Fund," that there be seven Trustees presently selected and named to manage the affairs and investments of the corporation, and that the President of the University be at all times, ex officio, a Trustee of the corporation; that the first seven Trustees be selected by this Executive Committee to serve for terms of one to seven years, respectively, the term of each Trustee to be determined by lot after their selection by the Executive Committee; that no Trustee drawing a term of more than three years shall be eligible for re-election but that any Trustee drawing a term of three years or less shall be eligible for election for one additional term of seven years, that the first seven Trustees be selected without reference to their respective ages, but that all successor Trustees shall be of the age of 57 years or less, so that upon the expiration of their respective seven year terms of service they would have attained an age of not to exceed 65 years; that all successor Trustees be nominated by a majority vote of the Trustees then in office, such nominations to receive the approval of the majority of the Board of Managers of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia in attendance upon any meeting at which the selection of a successor Trustee shall come before the Board of Managers for consideration and action; that for each vacancy the trustees then in office shall nominate three persons, one of whom shall be selected by the Board of Managers in the manner stated; that no member of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia shall be selected either as an original or successor Trustee; that the charter of the corporation provide that all securities held by it shall be placed in the possession, as custodian, of some trust company or companies or bank or banks having trust powers, and that the corporation may in its discretion employ the services of some corporation or individual, or duly accredited officer of the University, as investment counsel and/or custodian; that the corporation shall apply faithfully the gifts or grants to the objects or purposes designated by the donor or grantor, but when no direction, condition or limitation is attached to the gift or grant, the corporation shall hold the same with full power to invest and reinvest in accordance with the discretion of its Trustees, and such portion as the Trustees may deem necessary of the income and/or principal from any and all funds at any time held by the corporation shall, except as otherwise specifically required and provided by the donor or grantor, be applied to the needs of the University of Virginia after full conference with the President and Rector and the Corporation shall pay the same, to the Bursar of the University, to be expended as directed by the Corporation; that the corporation, acting through its Board of Trustees, shall have the broadest investment discretion and special care should be taken in the preparation of its charter to see that its powers are expressed in terms in conformity with modern investment practice.

If such development fund corporation is organized, Mr. Gay concurs in the statements in this report as to the manner of its creation, the selection of its director-trustees and the manner in which they and the corporation shall function, but reserves for further consideration any expression of opinion upon the question whether, in the over-all interest of the University, it is wise and expedient to create at this time a new agency for holding and administering funds procured through the conduct of the campaign presently being undertaken.

The special Committee in respect to the School of Fine Arts, appointed October 8, 1947, by the Dean of the College in pursuance of a resolution of the Rector and Visitors has the honor to submit the following report.

The Committee recommends,

1\. That the facilities of the McIntire School of Fine Arts be expanded sufficiently to provide;

(a) Elementary courses in drawing, modeling, and creative design suitable for election by any candidate for the degree of Bachelor of Arts; and

(b) Advanced courses in drawing and modeling and elementary painting, sculpture, and graphic arts of an adequate number and variety to make a strong field of concentration as major subjects for the Bachelor of Arts degree.

2\. That in order to carry out the above program there should be added to the faculty a teacher of drawing and graphic arts, a teacher of advanced drawing and painting, a teacher of modeling and sculpture, and a part time teacher of creative design; and also a fine arts librarian; and further, expanded resources for the Fine Arts Library and the Museum of Fine Arts be provided.

The Chairman of the Committee has prepared the attached appendixes that are informative of existing and needed facilities to carry out the two recommendations. The Committee transmits these appendixes as the special statement of the member of the Committee best in position to give the information.

The Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors, meeting today in Charlottesville, adopted the following resolution to present to the Board:

We recommend to the Board that the site of the outdoor swimming pool be on the location of the present reflecting pool for the following reasons:

1) Construction of the swimming pool will remove the present hazard and eyesore.

2) It will be convenient to the Gymnasium and proposed Student Union Building.

3) It can be used as part of the development of a beautiful area.

The Committee feels that the pool must be highly sanitary and that necessary construction be carried out to make it available to women students.

We recommend that the architects chosen for the construction of the new dormitories and Student Union Building of the University be requested to make a study and prepare plans for consideration for such a pool and landscape gardening of the area.

1942

$ 3,500.00

1943

4,000.00

1944

7,000.00

1945

9,500.00

1946

10,000.00

The Committee appointed by the Rector to investigate and report on the proposal of Mrs. Florence K. Sloane that there be an arrangement made between the Hermitage Foundation and the University of Virginia, whereby the latter would direct and carry on the work of the Foundation after Mrs. Sloane's death, respectfully reports as follows:

The Hermitage Foundation is a charitable corporation organized in 1937 under the laws of the State of Virginia.

It is the owner by deed from Mr. and Mrs. William Sloane of a tract of land of seven acres located in Lochhaven, an extremely desirable residential section of the City of Norfolk. The property is in the form of a peninsula jutting out into the Lafayette River. There are three buildings, in the English Tudor Style, the major one being partially occupied as the home of Mrs. Sloane.

This house has fourteen galleries filled with many rare paintings and objects of art, with special emphasis on Eastern art. This is the lifetime collection of Mr. and Mrs. Sloane and it has been transferred to the Foundation.

A copy of a newspaper clipping giving a more detailed description of the property and containing pictures of the house and of some of the objects of art is attached hereto.

At the present time the building or museum is open from Tuesday through Saturday from 1:00 to 5:00 p.m., and on Sunday from 2:00 to 6:00 p.m. In addition a series of art lessons for both children and adults is conducted in another building.

The Committee has received the general impression that the facilities of the museum were not being very widely used, perhaps due to the rather remote location, and possibly also to the manner in which it has been conducted.

The Foundation is now being financed by the income from an irrevocable trust created by Mrs. Sloane. The trustee, The Guaranty Trust Company, now holds the principal sum of approximately $270,000; the income from this fund for the last five years has been as follows:

Under the terms of the trust nine-tenths of each year's income is available for the support of the Foundation. The remaining tenth is added to the principal until $100,000 is accumulated when the entire income becomes payable to the Foundation.

Under the will of William Sloane, a trust was created of which the present principal amounts to $250,000. This sum is held in trust for the life of Mrs. Sloane. Under its terms she was given the power to invade the principal, but she is about to surrender this power. Upon the death of Mrs. Sloane one-half of the principal is paid to the Foundation and the balance is to be divided into two funds, each of which is to be held in trust for the life of one of Mrs. Sloane's sons. Upon the death of each son the principal of his trust is to be paid over to the Foundation.

Mrs. Sloane's will also makes a bequest to The Hermitage Trust, of an amount estimated to be at least $100,000.00. This will make an aggregate ultimate amount available to the Foundation, directly or through the trust, of not less than $620,000.00.

The buildings upon The Hermitage property, and owned by The Foundation, are valued at approximately $225,000.00. The extensive water frontage enhances the value of the land. It is conservatively estimated by real estate agents to be worth $150,000.00.

The art objects, paintings and the like, which are the property of the museum or Foundation, are estimated to be worth $200,000.00.

Thus the aggregate involved in value in the proposal made by Mrs. Sloane is at least $1,200,000.

Mrs. Sloane proposes that the University of Virginia have a minority representation on the Board of Trustees of the Foundation during her lifetime - (she is a woman well over seventy), that the name of the University be linked with that of the Hermitage Foundation; that the University, through its representatives on the Board, contribute advice and assistance in the conduct of the museum and school. She would be willing to agree in advance to a definite program of activities. She would reserve for herself and her family a portion of the second floor of the museum building for living quarters.

Upon Mrs. Sloane's death she would expect the University to have a majority representation on the Foundation Board, although she would like to continue to have her family represented thereon for a period of years.

Mrs. Sloane's proposal contemplates that the present plans of the Foundation be carried out in general by the maintenance of the museum and art classes in Norfolk. If it should appear subsequently that public interest in these activities has ceased, or if the site should become undesirable, Mrs. Sloane would be willing for the activities of the Foundation to be transferred to Charlottesville to a suitable fireproof, air conditioned building which could be erected, we believe, with the proceeds of the real estate in Norfolk. She expresses a desire to have the building in Charlottesville patterned as closely as possible on the present building in order that the beautiful panelling, part of which was imported from Europe, may be reinstalled and the paintings appropriately reestablished. The committee doubts that the English Tudor style of house, in which style the museum is constructed, would harmonize with the architecture at the University. However, while the point has not been discussed with Mrs. Sloane, we do not believe that she would insist on the building being reconstructed exactly as it now is if the activities were transferred to Charlottesville.

The Committee does not believe it wise to approach the matter with any idea of transferring these activities from Norfolk because extremely unfavorable political implications might arise from any report that such a step were contemplated. However, it can do no harm to have in the agreement with the Foundation a saving provision to the effect that the property could be sold and activities removed.

It is the view of the Committee that the proposal of Mrs. Sloane is an attractive one, involving as it does in itself little or no increased financial obligation.

However, the Committee considers that it would be an anomalous situation for the University to undertake what might be described as an extension or branch in the fine arts in view of the fact that there is no present school of painting and sculpture at the University. Indeed, Mrs. Sloane's proposal is predicated upon the establishment of such a school.

The Committee, therefore respectfully reports that the first decision to be reached is whether or not the University desires to establish a School of Painting and Sculpture. That decision must, of course, be made by the Board, after whatever study and investigation it may deem proper.

The matter has some urgency because we are informed that on account of her age Mrs. Sloane desires to settle as promptly as possible the carrying on of the activities of the museum. In addition, the letter from her attorney informs us that she has been approached by another large institution of learning outside of Virginia. She, however, would prefer an affiliation with an institution within the State.

The Committee spent the better part of a day conferring with Mrs. Sloane and viewing the property and its contents. In addition the chairman has had four conferences with Mrs. Sloane.