Board of Visitors minutes (1948) February 13, 1948
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

February 13, 1948

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

4 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

GIFTS MINOR BEQUEST MCGREGOR LIBRARY SALARIES OF MEDICAL CLINICIANS PUBLICITY OF MINUTES OF BOARD MEETINGS SUPREME COURT DECISION INTERFRATERNITY COUNCIL RULES DEVELOPMENT FUND MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mr. William Gage Brady, Jr., of New York City, to the University of Virginia Hospital

$ 500.00

From Dr. P. F. McMurdo, to increase the Capt. C. E. and Mary K. McMurdo loan fund, securities valued at

3,000.00

The regular monthly meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 10 o'clock in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present: President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Mr. Edgar E. Woodward, Treasurer of Mary Washington College; Visitors Anderson, Barksdale, Carrington, Garnett, Gay, Mears, Treut, and Wailes. Absent: Black, Calcott, Combs, Miller, Stettinius, and Willis.

In the absence of the Rector, Mr. Garnett was elected Rector pro tem.

The minutes of the meeting of January 9, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President announced the following gifts:

The President was requested by the Board to refer to Mr. W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, for an opinion, the question of what agency of the University should receive the Minor bequest.

Upon the recommendation of Mr. Clemons and the Library Committee, the Board directed the President to offer Mr. David K. E. Bruce of Baltimore a position as a member of the Advisory Committee of the McGregor Library.

The President stated that after a conference with Mr. Perkins, Attorney for the University, he was of the opinion, as was Mr. Perkins, that the termination of the agreement with medical clinicians as of January 1, 1948 was dubious. He asked that the Board rescind its action of December 12, 1947, stating that he had discussed the matter with Dean Jordan, who was likewise dubious as to the legality of the termination and desired the Board to reconsider the whole matter. The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, that the arrangement regarding compensation of medical clinicians, which has been in force since July 1, 1945, be continued until July 1, 1948 as a matter of policy; and that at that time the plan heretofore obtaining prior to the change made in 1945 be reinstituted with an upper limit of $20,000.00 instead of the $15,000.00 then prevailing; and -

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the President is hereby directed to give the clinicians formal notice terminating such agreement as of July 1, 1948.

The President was asked to secure the opinion of counsel as to whether or not the minutes of the Board meetings are public documents.

The Supreme Court decision in the case of Ada Lois Sipuel v. Board of Regents of the University of Oklahoma was discussed.

The President reported that he had met with the Interfraternity Council twice since the last Board meeting. The proposals submitted by the Interfraternity Council at the January meeting were discussed item by item, and as modified by the Board, were adopted in the following resolution:

(1) Fraternity houses shall be conducted in an orderly and gentlemanly manner. Decent, upright conduct shall be maintained at all times, and no conduct shall be tolerated that reflects in any way upon the good name of the fraternity or of the University. Disturbances objectionable to neighbors and to the community at large will not be tolerated.

(2) Women of bad character shall not be permitted in a fraternity house at any time.

(3a) Ladies are to be entertained in living and recreation rooms only.

(b) No ladies shall be permitted in fraternity houses on Monday through Friday before 3:00 p.m. nor after 8:00 p.m. except as hereinafter provided.

(c) No ladies shall be permitted in fraternity houses on Saturday and Sunday before 11:00 a.m. nor after 8:00 p.m. except as hereinafter provided.

(d) On Friday and Saturday nights ladies shall be permitted in fraternity houses until 1:00 a.m., if chaperons approved by the Dean of Students are present.

(e) On nights of authorized University dances, upon application made to the Dean of Students, in writing at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance, the Dean may extend the night hours to one hour after the dance on all nights except Saturdays, when the extension may be made to two hours after the dance, provided suitable chaperons approved by him are present in the fraternity house.

(f) On special occasions, upon application made to the Dean of Students, in writing at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance, the Dean may extend the night hours until 1:00 a.m., provided suitable chaperons approved by him are present in the fraternity house from 8:00 p.m. until 1:00 a.m.

(g) The provisions of subsections (b) and (c) shall not apply to mothers or wives of members of the fraternity when accompanied by that member nor shall subsection (b) or (c) apply to those regularly employed in the fraternity house.

(4) Each fraternity, through its officers, shall be responsible to the Interfraternity Council, for the enforcement of these rules and for the conduct of its members. The Interfraternity Council shall have full jurisdiction over the enforcement of these rules, and over the punishment for any violations thereof, subject to the approval of the administrative officers of the University. No officers or member of a fraternity the actions of which, or a member of which, is the subject of inquiry shall be eligible to participate in a vote at any meeting called to consider any infraction of these rules.

(5) No change may be made in these rules except by resolution of The Rector and Visitors.

The foregoing resolution supersedes rules governing fraternities adopted by the Board at its meeting on 12 December 1947.

Mr. Anderson reopened the question of the report of the Special Committee, appointed by Admiral Halsey, to the Executive Committee of the Development Fund, as approved by the Board at its meeting on 9 January 1948. Mr. Anderson proposed the adoption of the following resolution:

RESOLVED, that the resolution adopting a report of the Special Committee appointed by Chairman Halsey, as revised and submitted to the Board of Visitors as the recommendations of the Executive Committee in this respect, and as further amended by the resolution adopted on 9 January 1948, be and is hereby rescinded; and -

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the language of that part of Part II of the original report of the Committee appointed by Chairman Halsey be and is hereby revised to conform to the language of the report as originally drafted and submitted by such Special Committee.

The foregoing resolution was adopted, Mr. Garnett casting the only dissenting vote for reasons expressed in two letters which he circulated among members of the Board.

The report adopted, revised in accordance with the foregoing resolution, reads as follows:

The undersigned Committee, appointed by Chairman Halsey at the meeting of the Executive Committee held September 11, 1947, to investigate and report upon the best method to be employed in the handling and administration of funds obtained through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign, respectfully advises as follows:

I. The Committee is unanimously of opinion that the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia is presently without power to constitute a new and separate Board of Trustees to hold and administer funds that may now be obtaining through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign. Its reasons for entertaining this view are as follows:

The Society of Alumni of the University of Virginia was incorporated by an Act of the General Assembly of this State, adopted February 6, 1873. By an amendment approved March 7, 1903, the name of the Society was changed to the General Alumni Association of the University of Virginia. By Section Seven of this Act, the Association was given "power to raise an endowment fund for the use and benefit of the University, to be held by the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds, and all funds belonging to said Association in excess of $1,000, and all those donated for the purpose of building a public hall, shall be similarly invested and only disposed of as they may be deemed for the purposes of the Association or the University." By Section Eight of the Act the Association was given power to receive and hold property and donations passing by grant, conveyance, demise or bequest, "under the general powers of endowment created in the Seventh Section of this Act . . ."

It is thus seen that under the charter of the Association at that time in effect any endowment fund raised by it for the use and benefit of the University had to be held by "the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds." Your Committee is informed that when the Association interested itself in the raising of an endowment in 1907 and 1908 at least one large donor refused to give funds which would be subject to the political control of the State of Virginia. The aforementioned sections Seven and Eight of the charter of the Association were therefore amended as of December 5, 1907, so as to authorize the Association to appoint by deed of trust a Board of seven Trustees, to be known and designated as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund." It was provided that this "Board and its successors shall be perpetual and its duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities shall be irrevocable, to hold, manage, invest and expend the funds now raised, or hereafter to be raised, or any gift or grant heretofore or hereafter made to the General Alumni Association for the use and benefit of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter and the provisions of said deed of trust herein authorized to be executed, which deed shall define the duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities of said Board."

Pursuant to the foregoing provisions of the charter of the Association, as amended, it executed on February 15, 1908, a deed to Joseph Bryan, Thomas Nelson Page, Thomas F. Ryan, Alexander P. Humphrey, Charles J. Faulkner and Williamson W. Fuller, and Edwin A. Alderman, President of the University of Virginia, ex officio, Trustees, to be known as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" transferring and conveying "all gifts, funds, moneys, investments or subscriptions now made or which may hereafter be made, to the said Trustees for the use and berefit of the University of Virginia," together with "all such grants, gifts, funds, moneys, investments, interest, credit, bonds, notes, or subscriptions that may hereafter be made of every character or description whatsoever, including income, revenues, issues and profits thereof, either directly to the Trustees, parties of the second part, or to this Association for the benefit of the University of Virginia."

While the charter of the Association has since three times been amended, on August 4, 1922, January 24, 1929 and September 9, 1933, the rights, powers and duties of the Trustees and their successors, appointed by the aforesaid deed of trust of February 15, 1908, have been fully preserved, it having been expressly provided in the amendment of September 9, 1933, that -

"It (the Alumni Board) shall hold, manage, invest and expend, the funds raised or hereafter to be raised, or any gifts or grants heretofore or hereafter made by will, deed or otherwise, to it, or to the Alumni "Association for the use and benefit of the said Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter."

It seems to your Committee, therefore, that title to any funds presently solicited by, or obtained as a result of the efforts of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia would necessarily pass to "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" created by the deed of February 15, 1908, and their successors presently in office. The execution of a further or additional deed of trust at this time, whereby a new board of trustees would be created for the purpose of receiving title to, possession and control of funds likely to be raised in the present campaign would not, therefore, in the opinion of the Committee, be presently within the power of the Association.

II. In this situation a majority of your Committee, Messrs. Scott and Hildreth, are of opinion that a new non-profit, non-stock corporation should be organized under the provisions of Chapter 151 of the Code of Virginia, to be designated as "The University of Virginia Development Fund," that there be seven Trustees presently selected and named to manage the affairs and investments of the corporation, and that the President of the University be at all times, ex officio, a Trustee of the corporation; that the first seven Trustees be selected by this Executive Committee to serve for terms of one to seven years, respectively, the term of each Trustee to be determined by lot after their selection by the Executive Committee; that no Trustee drawing a term of more than three years shall be eligible for re-election but that any Trustee drawing a term of three years or less shall be eligible for election for one additional term of seven years; that the first seven Trustees be selected without reference to their respective ages, but that all successor Trustees shall be of the age of 57 years or less, so that upon the expiration of their respective seven year terms of service they would have attained an age of not to exceed 65 years, that all successor Trustees be nominated by a majority vote of the Trustees then in office, such nominations to receive the approval of the majority of the Board of Managers of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia in attendance upon any meeting at which the selection of a successor Trustee shall come before the Board of Managers for consideration and action; that for each vacancy the Trustees then in office shall nominate three persons, one of whom shall be selected by the Board of Managers in the manner stated, that the charter of the corporation provide that all securities held by it shall be placed in the possession, as custodian, of some trust company or bank having trust powers, organized under the laws of the State of Virginia and/or of the United States and doing business in Virginia, with capital, surplus and undivided profits of not less than $2,000,000.00, and that the corporation may in its discretion employ the services of some corporation or individual, or duly accredited officer of the University, as investment counsel; that the corporation shall apply faithfully the gifts or grants to the objects or purposes designated by the donor or grantor, but when no direction, condition or limitation is attached to the gift or grant, the corporation shall hold the same with full power to invest and reinvest in accordance with the discretion of its Trustees, and the income from any and all funds at any time held by the corporation shall, except as otherwise specifically required and provided by the donor or grantor, be applied to the needs of the University of Virginia after full conference with the President, Rector and Visitors of the University, and upon agreement with them as to the expenditure of all or a part of such annual income, the Corporation shall pay the same, or the part as to which an agreement has been reached, to the Bursar of the University, to be expended as agreed upon, but in the absence of any such agreement, all of such income shall be paid over to the Bursar to be expended as the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia may direct; that the corporation, acting through its Board of Trustees, shall have the broadest investment discretion and special care should be taken in the preparation of its charter to see that its powers are expressed in terms in conformity with modern investment practice.

If such development fund corporation is organized, Mr. Gay concurs in the statements in this report as to the manner of its creation, the selection of its director-trustees and the manner in which they and the corporation shall function, but reserves for further consideration any expression of opinion upon the question whether, in the over-all interest of the University, it is wise and expedient to create at this time a new agency for holding and administering funds procured through the conduct of the campaign presently being undertaken.

The report submitted by the Committee on Mary Washington College is as follows, with amendments made by the Board and action taken.

The Committee met at Mary Washington on January 28th, 1948. The following members were present: Judge Garnett, Mr. Miller, Mrs. Willis and Mrs. Wailes, also President Combs, Dean Alvey and Mr. Woodward of Mary Washington.

1\. The matter of class enrollments at Mary Washington had been referred to the Committee for study. We wish to report that the average class during the past semester had 23.38 students, and that a minimum of five students is usually required for offering a course. However, it is necessary in a few cases to offer some required advanced courses for a smaller number of students. Whenever possible, these classes are combined (for example, art) or offered in alternate years. Since the catalogue is regarded as a contract with the student, listed courses are given - even for an enrollment of two or three if no satisfactory substitution can be worked out. Such instances, Dean Alvey states, are the exception.

The classes in Latin and Greek are the smallest in the College, also those in advanced courses in Economics. The Committee considers these courses a necessary part of a liberal arts curriculum and recommends their continuance according to the policy and practice now followed.

Classes in Russian are likewise small as enrollment in them dropped during the past year. The State Department holds instruction in Russian extremely important, and we recommend that these courses be retained in the curriculum for the present.

(Approved.)

2\. The Committee wishes to submit without recommendation to the Board the tentative proposal to set up the curriculum leading to the special B.S. degree in Home Economics so that the holders of this degree may meet requirements for the teaching of home economics in Virginia schools, the specific plan to be worked out by Dean Alvey with the approval of the faculty.

(Disapproved.)

3\. Since Brompton has been completed with the exception of a few minor details, the matter of furnishing and equipping it needs to be decided. The Committee recommends that a study as to specific needs and estimates of cost of furnishing and equipping all public rooms, including the lower floor and halls, also dining room and kitchen, be submitted as soon as possible.

(Approved.)

4\. The Committee recommends that the Board approve preliminary plans and specifications for infirmary (subject to changes suggested by Dr. Trout), new addition to dining hall, and renovation of Frances Willard and Central Heating Plant in order that the above plans may be submitted to the Engineering Division of the Budget for study and approval.

(Approved.)

5\. The Committee recommends that Mary Washington College be permitted to issue bonds to the amount of $1,500,000 under the provision of chapter 127 of the Act of Assembly of 1946 for buildings or improvements involving outlay of a capital nature which may be required for the purpose of building or improving dormitories and dining halls and/or infirmary; and equipment for the same on lands already owned by the institution and on sites which have already been selected. The attorney for the University shall be instructed to prepare the application and such other papers as may be necessary for submission to the Governor.

(No action taken.)

6\. The Committee considered also the building of faculty apartments, but does not recommend such construction at this time.

(No action taken.)

7\. The Committee wishes to report that the Jenkins property has been secured for $80,000 although the original price quoted was $110,000, and it had been the hope to purchase same for $90,000.

8\. The Committee has asked President Combs to investigate the possibility of acquiring the Sunshine Laundry property, and to report on this matter to the Board at a later date.

9\. The City of Fredericksburg was given permission to use the water tank as a radio tower. Upon further investigation this was not found suitable, and the Committee recommends that the City be permitted to erect a radio tower on the extreme western boundary of Brompton, said license to be revokable on six months notice, and that the contract between the City and the college clearly state that the college will not be responsible for any accidents arising out of the use of the property.

(Approved.)

10\. Mrs. Willis submitted to the Committee the comparative salary scale of presidents of Virginia institutions of higher learning. The Committee recommends that the salary of President Combs be increased to equal the salary of presidents of William and Mary, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Virginia Military Institute, and the Medical College of Virginia, i.e., $10,000, and that proper steps be taken to bring this matter to the attention of the Governor, the Director of the Budget, and if necessary, to the proper committee of the Legislature. It is also recommended, that if approved, this information be communicated to Sen. Benjamin Pitts, and to the Hon. Wm. Gibson.

(Approved.)

There being no further business to come before the meeting, the same was adjourned after a motion to that effect had been made, seconded, and carried.

The undersigned Committee, appointed by Chairman Halsey at the meeting of the Executive Committee held September 11, 1947, to investigate and report upon the best method to be employed in the handling and administration of funds obtained through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign, respectfully advises as follows:

I. The Committee is unanimously of opinion that the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia is presently without power to constitute a new and separate Board of Trustees to hold and administer funds that may now be obtaining through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign. Its reasons for entertaining this view are as follows:

The Society of Alumni of the University of Virginia was incorporated by an Act of the General Assembly of this State, adopted February 6, 1873. By an amendment approved March 7, 1903, the name of the Society was changed to the General Alumni Association of the University of Virginia. By Section Seven of this Act, the Association was given "power to raise an endowment fund for the use and benefit of the University, to be held by the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds, and all funds belonging to said Association in excess of $1,000, and all those donated for the purpose of building a public hall, shall be similarly invested and only disposed of as they may be deemed for the purposes of the Association or the University." By Section Eight of the Act the Association was given power to receive and hold property and donations passing by grant, conveyance, demise or bequest, "under the general powers of endowment created in the Seventh Section of this Act . . ."

It is thus seen that under the charter of the Association at that time in effect any endowment fund raised by it for the use and benefit of the University had to be held by "the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds." Your Committee is informed that when the Association interested itself in the raising of an endowment in 1907 and 1908 at least one large donor refused to give funds which would be subject to the political control of the State of Virginia. The aforementioned sections Seven and Eight of the charter of the Association were therefore amended as of December 5, 1907, so as to authorize the Association to appoint by deed of trust a Board of seven Trustees, to be known and designated as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund." It was provided that this "Board and its successors shall be perpetual and its duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities shall be irrevocable, to hold, manage, invest and expend the funds now raised, or hereafter to be raised, or any gift or grant heretofore or hereafter made to the General Alumni Association for the use and benefit of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter and the provisions of said deed of trust herein authorized to be executed, which deed shall define the duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities of said Board."

Pursuant to the foregoing provisions of the charter of the Association, as amended, it executed on February 15, 1908, a deed to Joseph Bryan, Thomas Nelson Page, Thomas F. Ryan, Alexander P. Humphrey, Charles J. Faulkner and Williamson W. Fuller, and Edwin A. Alderman, President of the University of Virginia, ex officio, Trustees, to be known as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" transferring and conveying "all gifts, funds, moneys, investments or subscriptions now made or which may hereafter be made, to the said Trustees for the use and berefit of the University of Virginia," together with "all such grants, gifts, funds, moneys, investments, interest, credit, bonds, notes, or subscriptions that may hereafter be made of every character or description whatsoever, including income, revenues, issues and profits thereof, either directly to the Trustees, parties of the second part, or to this Association for the benefit of the University of Virginia."

While the charter of the Association has since three times been amended, on August 4, 1922, January 24, 1929 and September 9, 1933, the rights, powers and duties of the Trustees and their successors, appointed by the aforesaid deed of trust of February 15, 1908, have been fully preserved, it having been expressly provided in the amendment of September 9, 1933, that -

"It (the Alumni Board) shall hold, manage, invest and expend, the funds raised or hereafter to be raised, or any gifts or grants heretofore or hereafter made by will, deed or otherwise, to it, or to the Alumni "Association for the use and benefit of the said Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter."

It seems to your Committee, therefore, that title to any funds presently solicited by, or obtained as a result of the efforts of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia would necessarily pass to "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" created by the deed of February 15, 1908, and their successors presently in office. The execution of a further or additional deed of trust at this time, whereby a new board of trustees would be created for the purpose of receiving title to, possession and control of funds likely to be raised in the present campaign would not, therefore, in the opinion of the Committee, be presently within the power of the Association.

II. In this situation a majority of your Committee, Messrs. Scott and Hildreth, are of opinion that a new non-profit, non-stock corporation should be organized under the provisions of Chapter 151 of the Code of Virginia, to be designated as "The University of Virginia Development Fund," that there be seven Trustees presently selected and named to manage the affairs and investments of the corporation, and that the President of the University be at all times, ex officio, a Trustee of the corporation; that the first seven Trustees be selected by this Executive Committee to serve for terms of one to seven years, respectively, the term of each Trustee to be determined by lot after their selection by the Executive Committee; that no Trustee drawing a term of more than three years shall be eligible for re-election but that any Trustee drawing a term of three years or less shall be eligible for election for one additional term of seven years; that the first seven Trustees be selected without reference to their respective ages, but that all successor Trustees shall be of the age of 57 years or less, so that upon the expiration of their respective seven year terms of service they would have attained an age of not to exceed 65 years, that all successor Trustees be nominated by a majority vote of the Trustees then in office, such nominations to receive the approval of the majority of the Board of Managers of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia in attendance upon any meeting at which the selection of a successor Trustee shall come before the Board of Managers for consideration and action; that for each vacancy the Trustees then in office shall nominate three persons, one of whom shall be selected by the Board of Managers in the manner stated, that the charter of the corporation provide that all securities held by it shall be placed in the possession, as custodian, of some trust company or bank having trust powers, organized under the laws of the State of Virginia and/or of the United States and doing business in Virginia, with capital, surplus and undivided profits of not less than $2,000,000.00, and that the corporation may in its discretion employ the services of some corporation or individual, or duly accredited officer of the University, as investment counsel; that the corporation shall apply faithfully the gifts or grants to the objects or purposes designated by the donor or grantor, but when no direction, condition or limitation is attached to the gift or grant, the corporation shall hold the same with full power to invest and reinvest in accordance with the discretion of its Trustees, and the income from any and all funds at any time held by the corporation shall, except as otherwise specifically required and provided by the donor or grantor, be applied to the needs of the University of Virginia after full conference with the President, Rector and Visitors of the University, and upon agreement with them as to the expenditure of all or a part of such annual income, the Corporation shall pay the same, or the part as to which an agreement has been reached, to the Bursar of the University, to be expended as agreed upon, but in the absence of any such agreement, all of such income shall be paid over to the Bursar to be expended as the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia may direct; that the corporation, acting through its Board of Trustees, shall have the broadest investment discretion and special care should be taken in the preparation of its charter to see that its powers are expressed in terms in conformity with modern investment practice.

If such development fund corporation is organized, Mr. Gay concurs in the statements in this report as to the manner of its creation, the selection of its director-trustees and the manner in which they and the corporation shall function, but reserves for further consideration any expression of opinion upon the question whether, in the over-all interest of the University, it is wise and expedient to create at this time a new agency for holding and administering funds procured through the conduct of the campaign presently being undertaken.

The Committee met at Mary Washington on January 28th, 1948. The following members were present: Judge Garnett, Mr. Miller, Mrs. Willis and Mrs. Wailes, also President Combs, Dean Alvey and Mr. Woodward of Mary Washington.

1\. The matter of class enrollments at Mary Washington had been referred to the Committee for study. We wish to report that the average class during the past semester had 23.38 students, and that a minimum of five students is usually required for offering a course. However, it is necessary in a few cases to offer some required advanced courses for a smaller number of students. Whenever possible, these classes are combined (for example, art) or offered in alternate years. Since the catalogue is regarded as a contract with the student, listed courses are given - even for an enrollment of two or three if no satisfactory substitution can be worked out. Such instances, Dean Alvey states, are the exception.

The classes in Latin and Greek are the smallest in the College, also those in advanced courses in Economics. The Committee considers these courses a necessary part of a liberal arts curriculum and recommends their continuance according to the policy and practice now followed.

Classes in Russian are likewise small as enrollment in them dropped during the past year. The State Department holds instruction in Russian extremely important, and we recommend that these courses be retained in the curriculum for the present.

(Approved.)

2\. The Committee wishes to submit without recommendation to the Board the tentative proposal to set up the curriculum leading to the special B.S. degree in Home Economics so that the holders of this degree may meet requirements for the teaching of home economics in Virginia schools, the specific plan to be worked out by Dean Alvey with the approval of the faculty.

(Disapproved.)

3\. Since Brompton has been completed with the exception of a few minor details, the matter of furnishing and equipping it needs to be decided. The Committee recommends that a study as to specific needs and estimates of cost of furnishing and equipping all public rooms, including the lower floor and halls, also dining room and kitchen, be submitted as soon as possible.

(Approved.)

4\. The Committee recommends that the Board approve preliminary plans and specifications for infirmary (subject to changes suggested by Dr. Trout), new addition to dining hall, and renovation of Frances Willard and Central Heating Plant in order that the above plans may be submitted to the Engineering Division of the Budget for study and approval.

(Approved.)

5\. The Committee recommends that Mary Washington College be permitted to issue bonds to the amount of $1,500,000 under the provision of chapter 127 of the Act of Assembly of 1946 for buildings or improvements involving outlay of a capital nature which may be required for the purpose of building or improving dormitories and dining halls and/or infirmary; and equipment for the same on lands already owned by the institution and on sites which have already been selected. The attorney for the University shall be instructed to prepare the application and such other papers as may be necessary for submission to the Governor.

(No action taken.)

6\. The Committee considered also the building of faculty apartments, but does not recommend such construction at this time.

(No action taken.)

7\. The Committee wishes to report that the Jenkins property has been secured for $80,000 although the original price quoted was $110,000, and it had been the hope to purchase same for $90,000.

8\. The Committee has asked President Combs to investigate the possibility of acquiring the Sunshine Laundry property, and to report on this matter to the Board at a later date.

9\. The City of Fredericksburg was given permission to use the water tank as a radio tower. Upon further investigation this was not found suitable, and the Committee recommends that the City be permitted to erect a radio tower on the extreme western boundary of Brompton, said license to be revokable on six months notice, and that the contract between the City and the college clearly state that the college will not be responsible for any accidents arising out of the use of the property.

(Approved.)

10\. Mrs. Willis submitted to the Committee the comparative salary scale of presidents of Virginia institutions of higher learning. The Committee recommends that the salary of President Combs be increased to equal the salary of presidents of William and Mary, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Virginia Military Institute, and the Medical College of Virginia, i.e., $10,000, and that proper steps be taken to bring this matter to the attention of the Governor, the Director of the Budget, and if necessary, to the proper committee of the Legislature. It is also recommended, that if approved, this information be communicated to Sen. Benjamin Pitts, and to the Hon. Wm. Gibson.

(Approved.)

The undersigned Committee, appointed by Chairman Halsey at the meeting of the Executive Committee held September 11, 1947, to investigate and report upon the best method to be employed in the handling and administration of funds obtained through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign, respectfully advises as follows:

I. The Committee is unanimously of opinion that the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia is presently without power to constitute a new and separate Board of Trustees to hold and administer funds that may now be obtaining through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign. Its reasons for entertaining this view are as follows:

The Society of Alumni of the University of Virginia was incorporated by an Act of the General Assembly of this State, adopted February 6, 1873. By an amendment approved March 7, 1903, the name of the Society was changed to the General Alumni Association of the University of Virginia. By Section Seven of this Act, the Association was given "power to raise an endowment fund for the use and benefit of the University, to be held by the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds, and all funds belonging to said Association in excess of $1,000, and all those donated for the purpose of building a public hall, shall be similarly invested and only disposed of as they may be deemed for the purposes of the Association or the University." By Section Eight of the Act the Association was given power to receive and hold property and donations passing by grant, conveyance, demise or bequest, "under the general powers of endowment created in the Seventh Section of this Act . . ."

It is thus seen that under the charter of the Association at that time in effect any endowment fund raised by it for the use and benefit of the University had to be held by "the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds." Your Committee is informed that when the Association interested itself in the raising of an endowment in 1907 and 1908 at least one large donor refused to give funds which would be subject to the political control of the State of Virginia. The aforementioned sections Seven and Eight of the charter of the Association were therefore amended as of December 5, 1907, so as to authorize the Association to appoint by deed of trust a Board of seven Trustees, to be known and designated as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund." It was provided that this "Board and its successors shall be perpetual and its duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities shall be irrevocable, to hold, manage, invest and expend the funds now raised, or hereafter to be raised, or any gift or grant heretofore or hereafter made to the General Alumni Association for the use and benefit of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter and the provisions of said deed of trust herein authorized to be executed, which deed shall define the duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities of said Board."

Pursuant to the foregoing provisions of the charter of the Association, as amended, it executed on February 15, 1908, a deed to Joseph Bryan, Thomas Nelson Page, Thomas F. Ryan, Alexander P. Humphrey, Charles J. Faulkner and Williamson W. Fuller, and Edwin A. Alderman, President of the University of Virginia, ex officio, Trustees, to be known as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" transferring and conveying "all gifts, funds, moneys, investments or subscriptions now made or which may hereafter be made, to the said Trustees for the use and berefit of the University of Virginia," together with "all such grants, gifts, funds, moneys, investments, interest, credit, bonds, notes, or subscriptions that may hereafter be made of every character or description whatsoever, including income, revenues, issues and profits thereof, either directly to the Trustees, parties of the second part, or to this Association for the benefit of the University of Virginia."

While the charter of the Association has since three times been amended, on August 4, 1922, January 24, 1929 and September 9, 1933, the rights, powers and duties of the Trustees and their successors, appointed by the aforesaid deed of trust of February 15, 1908, have been fully preserved, it having been expressly provided in the amendment of September 9, 1933, that -

"It (the Alumni Board) shall hold, manage, invest and expend, the funds raised or hereafter to be raised, or any gifts or grants heretofore or hereafter made by will, deed or otherwise, to it, or to the Alumni "Association for the use and benefit of the said Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter."

It seems to your Committee, therefore, that title to any funds presently solicited by, or obtained as a result of the efforts of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia would necessarily pass to "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" created by the deed of February 15, 1908, and their successors presently in office. The execution of a further or additional deed of trust at this time, whereby a new board of trustees would be created for the purpose of receiving title to, possession and control of funds likely to be raised in the present campaign would not, therefore, in the opinion of the Committee, be presently within the power of the Association.

II. In this situation a majority of your Committee, Messrs. Scott and Hildreth, are of opinion that a new non-profit, non-stock corporation should be organized under the provisions of Chapter 151 of the Code of Virginia, to be designated as "The University of Virginia Development Fund," that there be seven Trustees presently selected and named to manage the affairs and investments of the corporation, and that the President of the University be at all times, ex officio, a Trustee of the corporation; that the first seven Trustees be selected by this Executive Committee to serve for terms of one to seven years, respectively, the term of each Trustee to be determined by lot after their selection by the Executive Committee; that no Trustee drawing a term of more than three years shall be eligible for re-election but that any Trustee drawing a term of three years or less shall be eligible for election for one additional term of seven years; that the first seven Trustees be selected without reference to their respective ages, but that all successor Trustees shall be of the age of 57 years or less, so that upon the expiration of their respective seven year terms of service they would have attained an age of not to exceed 65 years, that all successor Trustees be nominated by a majority vote of the Trustees then in office, such nominations to receive the approval of the majority of the Board of Managers of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia in attendance upon any meeting at which the selection of a successor Trustee shall come before the Board of Managers for consideration and action; that for each vacancy the Trustees then in office shall nominate three persons, one of whom shall be selected by the Board of Managers in the manner stated, that the charter of the corporation provide that all securities held by it shall be placed in the possession, as custodian, of some trust company or bank having trust powers, organized under the laws of the State of Virginia and/or of the United States and doing business in Virginia, with capital, surplus and undivided profits of not less than $2,000,000.00, and that the corporation may in its discretion employ the services of some corporation or individual, or duly accredited officer of the University, as investment counsel; that the corporation shall apply faithfully the gifts or grants to the objects or purposes designated by the donor or grantor, but when no direction, condition or limitation is attached to the gift or grant, the corporation shall hold the same with full power to invest and reinvest in accordance with the discretion of its Trustees, and the income from any and all funds at any time held by the corporation shall, except as otherwise specifically required and provided by the donor or grantor, be applied to the needs of the University of Virginia after full conference with the President, Rector and Visitors of the University, and upon agreement with them as to the expenditure of all or a part of such annual income, the Corporation shall pay the same, or the part as to which an agreement has been reached, to the Bursar of the University, to be expended as agreed upon, but in the absence of any such agreement, all of such income shall be paid over to the Bursar to be expended as the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia may direct; that the corporation, acting through its Board of Trustees, shall have the broadest investment discretion and special care should be taken in the preparation of its charter to see that its powers are expressed in terms in conformity with modern investment practice.

If such development fund corporation is organized, Mr. Gay concurs in the statements in this report as to the manner of its creation, the selection of its director-trustees and the manner in which they and the corporation shall function, but reserves for further consideration any expression of opinion upon the question whether, in the over-all interest of the University, it is wise and expedient to create at this time a new agency for holding and administering funds procured through the conduct of the campaign presently being undertaken.

The Committee met at Mary Washington on January 28th, 1948. The following members were present: Judge Garnett, Mr. Miller, Mrs. Willis and Mrs. Wailes, also President Combs, Dean Alvey and Mr. Woodward of Mary Washington.

1\. The matter of class enrollments at Mary Washington had been referred to the Committee for study. We wish to report that the average class during the past semester had 23.38 students, and that a minimum of five students is usually required for offering a course. However, it is necessary in a few cases to offer some required advanced courses for a smaller number of students. Whenever possible, these classes are combined (for example, art) or offered in alternate years. Since the catalogue is regarded as a contract with the student, listed courses are given - even for an enrollment of two or three if no satisfactory substitution can be worked out. Such instances, Dean Alvey states, are the exception.

The classes in Latin and Greek are the smallest in the College, also those in advanced courses in Economics. The Committee considers these courses a necessary part of a liberal arts curriculum and recommends their continuance according to the policy and practice now followed.

Classes in Russian are likewise small as enrollment in them dropped during the past year. The State Department holds instruction in Russian extremely important, and we recommend that these courses be retained in the curriculum for the present.

(Approved.)

2\. The Committee wishes to submit without recommendation to the Board the tentative proposal to set up the curriculum leading to the special B.S. degree in Home Economics so that the holders of this degree may meet requirements for the teaching of home economics in Virginia schools, the specific plan to be worked out by Dean Alvey with the approval of the faculty.

(Disapproved.)

3\. Since Brompton has been completed with the exception of a few minor details, the matter of furnishing and equipping it needs to be decided. The Committee recommends that a study as to specific needs and estimates of cost of furnishing and equipping all public rooms, including the lower floor and halls, also dining room and kitchen, be submitted as soon as possible.

(Approved.)

4\. The Committee recommends that the Board approve preliminary plans and specifications for infirmary (subject to changes suggested by Dr. Trout), new addition to dining hall, and renovation of Frances Willard and Central Heating Plant in order that the above plans may be submitted to the Engineering Division of the Budget for study and approval.

(Approved.)

5\. The Committee recommends that Mary Washington College be permitted to issue bonds to the amount of $1,500,000 under the provision of chapter 127 of the Act of Assembly of 1946 for buildings or improvements involving outlay of a capital nature which may be required for the purpose of building or improving dormitories and dining halls and/or infirmary; and equipment for the same on lands already owned by the institution and on sites which have already been selected. The attorney for the University shall be instructed to prepare the application and such other papers as may be necessary for submission to the Governor.

(No action taken.)

6\. The Committee considered also the building of faculty apartments, but does not recommend such construction at this time.

(No action taken.)

7\. The Committee wishes to report that the Jenkins property has been secured for $80,000 although the original price quoted was $110,000, and it had been the hope to purchase same for $90,000.

8\. The Committee has asked President Combs to investigate the possibility of acquiring the Sunshine Laundry property, and to report on this matter to the Board at a later date.

9\. The City of Fredericksburg was given permission to use the water tank as a radio tower. Upon further investigation this was not found suitable, and the Committee recommends that the City be permitted to erect a radio tower on the extreme western boundary of Brompton, said license to be revokable on six months notice, and that the contract between the City and the college clearly state that the college will not be responsible for any accidents arising out of the use of the property.

(Approved.)

10\. Mrs. Willis submitted to the Committee the comparative salary scale of presidents of Virginia institutions of higher learning. The Committee recommends that the salary of President Combs be increased to equal the salary of presidents of William and Mary, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Virginia Military Institute, and the Medical College of Virginia, i.e., $10,000, and that proper steps be taken to bring this matter to the attention of the Governor, the Director of the Budget, and if necessary, to the proper committee of the Legislature. It is also recommended, that if approved, this information be communicated to Sen. Benjamin Pitts, and to the Hon. Wm. Gibson.

(Approved.)