Board of Visitors minutes (1948) June 11, 1948
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 11, 1948

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

7 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

GIFTS RESIGNATIONS PROMOTIONS ELECTIONS REPORT OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE RANDALL-MACIVER BEQUEST WEDDELL BEQUEST LUCY W. KAY SUIT AGAINST UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL MORAN PROPERTY RITCHIE PROPERTY SUMMER MEETINGS OF THE BOARD ALLOCATION OF PAVILION IV EMERGENCY HOUSING ROTC TRANSPORTATION UNIT CURATOR OF BAYLY ART MUSEUM COMPENSATION OF CLINICAL MEDICAL FACULTY COMPENSATION OF PRE-CLINICAL MEDICAL FACULTY UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FACULTY SALARY PLAN DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE - PRE-CLINICAL FACULTYJULY 1, 1948 "LITTLE EASTERS" LIBRARY FEES ANNUITIES PUBLICATIONS CARY LANGHORNE TRUST TUITION AND FEES TUITION CHARGES PER SESSION UNIVERSITY FEES PER SESSION LABORATORY FEES PER SEMESTER UNIVERSITY BUDGET FOR 1948-49 HOSPITAL BUDGET FOR 1948-49 MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS PROMOTIONS REVENUE BONDS REPORT OF THE MARY WASHINGTON COMMITTEE REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON THE CONSOLIDATION OF MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIAJune 11, 1948 CURRICULUM CHANGES: COURSES OF INSTRUCTION: DEGREES: FACULTY: LIBRARY: PLANT:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the General Education Board for research fellowships and for the development of the library at the Mountain Lake Biological Station, the grant to terminate December 31, 1948

$1,650.00

From alumni of the University of Virginia Medical School, to establish the Tiffany J. Williams Memorial Lectureship

820.00

Columbia University

7.50%

(high yield due to large investment in real estate)

Harvard University

4.25%

Yale University

3.65%

Princeton University

3.80%

RATE

ANNUAL

MONTHLY FOR 10 MONTHS

INTERVAL IN CALENDAR MONTHS BETWEEN STEPS

INCREASE IN ANNUAL RATE

Instructors

Not to exceed $3,000.

Assistant Professors

$ 4,000

$ 400

24

$300

4,300

430

24

300

4,600

460

24

300

4,900

490

24

300

5,200

520

\--

\---

Associate Professors

$ 5,500

$ 550

24

$500

6,000

600

24

500

6,500

650

30

500

7,000

700

30

500

7,500

750

\--

\---

Professors

$ 7,500

$ 750

30

$625

8,125

812.50

36

625

8,750

875

36

625

9,375

937.50

36

625

10,000

1,000

\--

\---

VIRGINIANS

NON-VIRGINIANS

Present

Proposed

Present

Proposed

College

$110

$150

$310

$350

College (Architecture)

127.50\* \*Virginia students who are enrolled as candidates for the degree of B.S. in Architecture beyond the first session pay a tuition fee of $127.50.

167.50

310

350

Law

235

235

275

350

Medicine

350

350

500

600

Engineering

160

200

310

350

Graduate

90

125

150

200

Education

110

150

310

350

Education

60\*\* \*\*Virginia students with credit for 60 or more semester-hours pay $60.00.

100

235\*\*\* \*\*\*Non-Virginians with credit for 60 or more semester-hours pay $235.00.

275

Present

Proposed

Library

$20.00

$20.00

Medical

15.00

15.00

Athletic

15.00

15.00

Student Publications

2.00

3.00

Present

Proposed

Architecture 21, 22, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, and 30

$ 7.50

$ 7.50

Architecture 9, 10, 11, 12, and 16

2.50

2.50

Biology

Biology 1, 2, 110, 111, and 202

5.00

7.50

Botany 101 and 102

5.00

7.50

Zoology 101 and 102

5.00

10.00

Zoology (all courses except 101 and 102)

5.00

7.50

Chemistry (each laboratory course)

10.00

10.00

Breakage deposit (refundable)

5.00

5.00

Engineering Drawing 111 and 112

7.50

7.50

Geology 1 and 2

1.50

5.00

Geology 7 and 8

2.50

2.50

Physics 1 and 2

5.00

5.00

Physics 3 and 4

7.50

7.50

The regular monthly meeting of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 10 o'clock in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present: The Rector, Edward R. Stettinius, Jr.; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College; Mr. Edgar E. Woodward, Treasurer of Mary Washington College; Visitors Barksdale, Black, Calcott, Garnett, Gay, Mears, Miller, Wailes, and Willis. Absent: Anderson, Carrington, and Trout.

The minutes of the meeting of May 21, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President announced the following gifts:

Upon recommendation of the President, the following resignations, promotions, and elections were approved. Mr. Gay refrained from voting in the promotions of Dr. Bishko, Dr. Finger, and Dr. Molyneaux, and in the election of Mr. Boggs.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. William Arthur Evelyn McBryde, Acting Assistant Professor of Chemistry, be and the same is accepted at the end of the session of 1947-48. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Mr. Herbert Palmer Fullerton, Associate Professor of Engineering Drawing, be and the same is accepted at the end of the session of 1947-48. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

Dr. Lewis Machen Hammond, from Associate Professor to Professor of Philosophy, effective September 16, 1948.

Dr. Charles Julian Bishko, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, effective September 16, 1948.

Dr. Frank Whitney Finger, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective September 16, 1948.

Dr. John Lambert Molyneaux, from Assistant Professor of Sociology, part-time, to Associate Professor of Sociology, part-time, effective September 16, 1948, at a combined annual salary of $5,104.00 for this position and his work in connection with the Bureau of Population and Economic Research.

Mr. James Ernest Berdahl, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Music, effective September 16, 1948.

Dr. Allan Talbott Gwathmey, from Research Associate to Assistant Professor of Chemistry, effective September 16, 1948.

Mr. Lawrence Greaver, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Mechanical Drawing, effective September 16, 1948.

Mr. Melvin Winfrey Aylor, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Mathematics in the Department of Engineering, effective September 16, 1948.

Mr. Earl Ruffner Boggs as Acting Associate Professor of Education, part-time, for a two-year period, beginning September 16, 1948, at a session salary of $3,000.

Dr. Truman Arthur Botts as Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics for the session of 1948-49 at a session salary of $3,510.00.

Mr. Thomas I. Crowell as Acting Assistant Professor of Chemistry, beginning September 16, 1948, at a session salary of $3,510.

Dr. Cecil Alan Hutchinson as Assistant Professor of Latin-American History, effective September 16, 1948, at a session salary of $3,510.

Mr. John L. kiey as Instructor in English for the session of 1948-49, beginning September 16, 1948, at a session salary of $2,830.

Mr. John Keith Stewart as Instructor in English for the session of 1948-49, beginning September 16, 1948, at a session salary of $2,830.

Dr. Samuel Doswald Sturkie as Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine, part-time, at an annual salary of $2,000 from the University, effective July 1, 1948. He will also serve as Health Officer for the Joint Board of Health of Charlottesville and Albemarle County.

Mr. Barron F. Black, Chairman of the Finance Committee, presented a detailed report of all of the actions of the Committee in regard to the handling of the securities of the Consolidated Endowment Funds of the University for the period January 1st, 1947 to January 1st, 1948.

Messrs. L. B. Gunn and Mr. Harvie Wilkinson, of the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company of Richmond, the agent handling the funds for the University, were present to answer any questions and to receive any suggestions regarding the handling of these funds.

Mr. Gunn reviewed the report in detail, impressing upon the Board the objectives which had been sought and the results obtained. He stated that an effort had been made to eliminate a number of small units so as to consolidate the investments of the Fund into fewer and more appropriate units, and that the number of individual investment units had been reduced from 195 in 1947 to 145 as of the present date.

He stressed also that there had been an effort to dispose of those investments of less than top quality, particularly in bonds and preferred stocks and where they had moved up in price so that the yield when compared with yields on better quality securities failed to compensate for the risk of continued retention of these securities. This change had been made with a loss of income of only $2,000 per annum, or 4/100ths of 1% of the total income.

The statement showed that for the twelve months ending January 25th, 1948 the gross yield on the Fund was 3.98% on the book value of the securities and the net yield 3.80%. The expenses of handling the Fund were 18/100ths of 1%. Mr. Gunn also pointed out that the investments of the Fund were now 52% in bonds and 48% in stocks.

Mr. Wilkinson commented briefly on a survey of the endowment funds of twenty-five leading universities, and he gave the following yields for several of these:

Mr. Wilkinson then briefly outlined the program being followed by a number of universities in the handling of their endowment funds following various investment formulas. He pointed out some of the difficulties resulting from a strict adherence to a set formula, and stated that he does not believe any mechanical formula will work over an extended period in the securities market.

All of the actions of the Finance Committee and its Agent, as shown in the report, were approved, and there were remarks of commendation from the Board, the Rector stating that the report was a very complete one, showing great effort and foresight. Mr. Stettinius further suggested that there should be some interchange of investment information among the trustees of the various endowment funds of the University. The following resolution offered by Mr. Stettinius was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby directed to work out some arrangement for the interchange of investment information among the trustees of the various endowment funds of the University.

Mr. Gunn stated that at the time the Consolidated Fund was transferred to the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, all securities held by the various trustees of the University were examined by investment officers of the State-Planters Bank and that changes in the portfolio of the Consolidated Endowment Fund were suggested to the Finance Committee, based on the securities held in the several trust funds.

The Chairman of the Finance Committee requested that the recommendations concerning the Randall-MacIver bequest be deferred until the next meeting, and such deferment was approved.

Mr. Gay reported that the bequest of $5,000 made to the University by the late Alexander W. Weddell would be received within a few days, but that Mrs. Weddell's bequest might not be received for some time because of tax complications in the settlement of her estate.

Mr. Gay presented, for Mr. W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, the matter of a suit instituted by Lucy W. Kay against The Rector and Visitors of the University and Dr. C. S. Lentz, Administrator of the University Hospital, jointly and severally, for $10,000 damages arising out of an accident which occurred on the corridors of the University Hospital where the plaintiff fell and broke her arm. The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, be and he is hereby directed to defend the University and Dr. Lentz jointly and severally in the above-described suit.

At the request of President Darden, Mr. Perkins investigated the possibility of securing an option on the estate "Montebello" which adjoins the property of the University in the vicinity of Scott Stadium and which is owned by the three Moran sisters. The President had hoped that if such an option could be secured, the University would be able to proceed with the purchase of certain lots owned by other parties which adjoin the Moran property. Mr. Perkins also provided the Board with a plat of the property, showing the adjoining lots, together with the prices at which the present owners would sell these lots. Because of the high values placed on the lots it was decided not to attempt to purchase them at this time. The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, be and he is hereby directed to effect an option on the property known as "Montebello" owned by the Misses Edna, Sarepta and Virginia Moran, and that he be requested to prepare the appropriate documents to consummate said option, and -

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Mr. Perkins be and he is hereby directed to inform the owners of the adjoining lots that the University is not interested in purchasing these lots at the present

The question of the purchase of the Ritchie property was referred to the Buildings and Grounds Committee with the request that recommendations be made at the next meeting of the Board. The Board vested in the Committee authority to authorize the purchase of the property if the Committee and the President deem it advisable.

A resolution was adopted that no scheduled meetings of the Board be held during July and August, but that the Rector be authorized to call a meeting at such time as he deems advisable.

The following resolution was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, in the event the offices of the President are moved from their present location in Pavilion IV on Fast Lawn, this pavilion be assigned to Dr. Robert K. Gooch.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President of the University be and he is hereby authorized to request the Federal Government to transfer to the University all emergency housing located at the University of Virginia to which the Federal Government now holds title.

This resolution has been drafted to comply with one of the provisions of H.R. 5710, Eightieth Congress, better known as the McGregor Bill, now pending before Congress.

In order to comply with Government regulations, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. W. D. Johnson be and he is hereby designated Military Property Custodian of the University with power to requisition, receive, store and account for military property and otherwise transact matters pertaining thereto, for and in behalf of the University of Virginia.

At the request of the President, consideration of the appointment of a Curator for the Museum of Fine Arts was deferred until the next meeting.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to modify the salary scale of the clinical faculty of the Department of Medicine as approved by the Board on December 12, 1947, in order to permit the following:

1\. A graduated salary scale for assistant professors, with no change in the basic salary but with annual increments to be permitted in the amount of compensation to be retained by such professors from their private practice earnings;

2\. A similar arrangement for associate professors;

3\. A ceiling of $3,000 for instructors.

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the President is requested to report to the Board at its next meeting the complete salary plan as finally agreed upon.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the salary plan as set forth below be and it is hereby adopted as the salary schedule for the pre-clinical staff of the Medical School, effective for the session 1948-49.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Rector be and he is hereby directed to write a letter to the President expressing the displeasure of the Board of Visitors with the conduct of certain members of the student body during "Little Easters" week end and with the failure of the fraternities to abide by the rules and regulations which had been agreed upon.

The following resolution was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED that the Bursar be and he is hereby directed to examine the resolution of the Board of Visitors authorizing the issuance of bonds for the construction of the Alderman Library and to report to the Board at its next meeting the provisions governing the use of funds derived from the library fee of $20.00 imposed upon each student at the time the Alderman Library was constructed.

The Board directed the Bursar to prepare a statement showing the cost to the University of annuities purchased from the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, together with the estimated cost to the State of providing retirement pensions for these annuitants if the University did not make such provision from its endowment funds.

The following resolution was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED that the President be and he is hereby requested to investigate the financing of all University publications and make recommendations concerning such publications to the Board at its next meeting.

Mr. Garnett reported that Mr. Cary Langhorne in his will had established a trust fund which would approximate $500,000, the income from which is to be used for the maintenance of the original Jeffersonian buildings and grounds of the University. The income from this trust is being paid to Mr. Langhorne's widow for the remainder of her life and then is to come to the University.

The Rector and President were asked to write to Mrs. Langhorne expressing the appreciation of the University for this handsome gift.

Proposals to increase tuition and fees were approved by the Board as set forth below.

Virginia students who are enrolled as candidates for the degree of B.S. in Architecture beyond the first session pay a tuition fee of $127.50.

Virginia students with credit for 60 or more semester-hours pay $60.00.

Non-Virginians with credit for 60 or more semester-hours pay $235.00.

The budget for the University Division for the year 1948-49, copies of which had been given members of the Board at the meeting on May 21, was approved as presented by the President. Revenues for the year were estimated at $4,389,240 and expenditures at $4,256,388, leaving an estimated surplus of $132,852.

The Board requested that if at all possible the President make available a contribution on the part of the University toward the publication of "Corks and Curls," the University yearbook.

The budget for the Hospital Division of the University for the year 1948-49, copies of which had been mailed to members of the Board several days prior to the meeting, was approved as submitted by the President; Mr. Gay refrained from voting in this matter. Estimated revenues for the Hospital for the year were $1,671,995 and estimated expenditures $1,769,509, leaving an estimated deficit of $97,514.

The following promotions were approved; Mr. Gay not voting.

Dr. Alan Stanley Peirce, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology with an increase in salary from $3,450 to $4,100.

Dr. Earl G. Insley to Associate Professor with an increase in salary from $3,850 to $4,100.

Consideration was given to the issuance of bonds to provide funds for the completion of the dining hall and cold storage plant at Mary Washington College. The matter was referred to the Finance Committee with authority to direct the attorney of the University, in collaboration with the Bursar, to prepare an appropriate resolution authorizing Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia to issue revenue bonds in an amount necessary to complete the dining hall and cold storage facilities at Mary Washington College.

The report of the Committee on the Consolidation of Mary Washington College with the University of Virginia was accepted and approved as presented by Mrs. Wailes, chairman of the committee.

The Act of February 22, 1944 (Acts 1944, Chapter 54, page 55) having become effective on June 24, 1944, provides that Mary Washington College shall be converted into a liberal arts college for women, the title of which shall be Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, with the same standards of admission and graduation as obtain for male students in the College of Arts and Sciences of the University located at Charlottesville . . . and that this conversion shall be effected during a period not to exceed four years.

The Committee herewith presents a brief report as to the status of the conversion of Mary Washington into a liberal arts college according to the Act, and according to the plan approved by the Rector and Board of Visitors on December 9, 1945.

All of the specialized programs or curricula have been discontined except those courses necessary to permit students to complete major programs under the old plan. In accordance with the Act, no new students were accepted for the session 1944-45 for programs in technical education. However, since other specialized curricula were not eliminated by Board action until after the beginning of the 1944-45 session, these latter programs will not be completed until next year.

Two elective courses in education have been retained in the curriculum to enable graduates to qualify for the Collegiate Professional Certificate with the stipulation that credit for courses of this nature may not exceed 10% of credits required for the degree. (By action of the Board, September, 1947.)

The college is now organized on a semester basis and the departmental type of organization has been completed. A number of new courses and instructors have been added to replace those eliminated through the conversion of Mary Washington into a liberal arts college.

New majors in Economics and Business Administration, Philosophy, Political Science, Sociology, and in Home Economics have been inaugurated during this four year period. The latter major leads to a degree of Bachelor of Science in Home Economics, but its courses do not have a vocational aim. For non-majors, only twelve hours of work in this field may be counted toward a liberal arts degree. It is further understood that a maximum of twelve hours credit, only, in these, and in practical education courses may be counted as electives for the B.A. or B.S. degrees. A program of Honors Work was introduced for the 1947-48 session and will be extended.

The degrees of Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science (by action of the Board, March 26, 1946) and Bachelor of Science in Home Economics (by action of the Board, November 22, 1947) are offered. Degree requirements have been strengthened as stipulated in the plan of conversion and basic requirements are equal for the degrees.

The faculty is having regular monthly meetings and its Committee on Academic Standards and Legislation has carried on a number of studies, the results of which were reported back to the faculty with recommendations for action.

It is significant that of the eighty-seven faculty members there remain only six who were members of the State Teachers' College faculty of 1928. These six are considered among the most valuable and loyal of the entire teaching staff and are still rendering invaluable service to the College. Of the faculty members listed in the current catalogue, 74% have been at Mary Washington for ten years or less.

During the four year period faculty salaries were increased three times. The first increase was made for the session 1945-46 in accordance with the so-called "Tuck Formula," paid, however, from college funds. The other two general increases were by action of the Board. There have, of course, been individual merit increases.

The Committee is of the opinion that as to training and experience this whole group represents a faculty of college calibre in the true sense. The President and Dean of the College commend the faculty also for competence in teaching and for loyalty.

The Committee on the Consolidation, aware of the importance to an educational institution of an adequately equipped and staffed library, recommended an annual library appropriation for Mary Washington of at least $50,000 to be used for increases in library personnel, for the purchase of books and magazines, for binding, equipment and etcetera, under the direction of the librarian. As of May 1st, the college treasurer reports library expenditures of $43,389 for the year 1947-48. Two new professional staff members have recently been added - a full time reference librarian and one full time person to take charge of documents. It is most gratifying to see that the number of volumes in the library has been increased from 30,776 in 1944 to 65,000 in 1948, representing, according to the librarian, not only quantitative, but also qualitative progress.

While it has been impossible to carry out the building program as planned on account of scarcity of materials and excessive costs, the college plant has been increased substantially by the purchase of several properties; i.e., "Brompton" (which has been restored), "Framar" (the Reichel home), "Trench Hill," the Jenkins property, and the Benoit property, a strip of land joining the new highway on the north.

Excellent detailed reports by President Combs and Dean Alvey are appended.

We believe, and so report to the Board, on the basis of information as incorporated in this report and in the reports of President Combs and Dean Alvey appended hereto, and in the current college catalogue, that the conversion of Mary Washington into a college of liberal arts as required by the Act of Legislature of February 22, 1944, and according to the plan approved by the Rector and Board of Visitors on December 9, 1945, has been accomplished.

However, in the opinion of the Committee the need for the following improvements is noted and they are urgently recommended:

Increased laboratory and class room facilities;

Additional dormitory space to relieve crowding in dormitories and placement of students in off-campus homes;

Salary scale equal to that of the College of Arts and Sciences of the University for comparable rank and position so as to hold and attract outstanding teachers;

Additions to faculty to reduce teacher-student ratio when needed.

There being no further business to come before the meeting, the same was adjourned after a motion to that effect had been made, seconded, and carried.