Board of Visitors minutes (1948) September 10, 1948
===================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

September 10, 1948

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

6 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

JOHN SEGAR GRAVATT APPOINTED VISITOR GIFTS RESIGNATIONS PROMOTIONS ELECTIONS APPOINTMENTS SCHOOL OF PAINTING AND SCULPTURE NCAA REGULATIONS MCGREGOR LIBRARY MCREYNOLDS BEQUEST DRY DOCK CANCELING HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS PROCEDURE FOR CANCELING UNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS FUNDS FOR VIRGINIA LAW WEEKLY TELEPHONE EXCHANGE ASSISTANT DEAN OF LAW SCHOOL ADDITION TO LAW SCHOOL BUILDING INTEREST ON STUDENT LOANS LABORATORY FEES IN DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING LOCATION OF NAVY PLAQUE MEETINGS OF BOARD AT MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE STUDY OF COLLEGE CURRICULUM DEAN OF MEDICAL SCHOOL STUDENT CONDUCT CITY WATER CONTRACT WITNESSETH: LAMBETH PROPERTY RICHEY PROPERTY MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS ELECTIONS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the estate of the late Leander J. McCormick, to be used for the School of Astronomy

$ 347.23

From Mrs. W. S. Rodman, for the purchase of books for the Engineering Library

100.00

From the Virginia-Carolina Chemical Corporation, for a post doctoral fellowship in the study of the organic compounds of phosphorus, the research program to be carried on by Dr. Burger and Dr. Henderson

5,000.00

From the E. I. du Pont Company, for a fellowship in chemistry for the session of 1948-49

2,200.00

From the United States Public Health Service, a grant for work under the direction of Dr. D. C. Smith

5,400.00

From the United States Public Health Service, a grant for work under the direction of Dr. J. E. Wood, Jr.

$ 9,960.00

From the estate of the late J. Gordon Bohannon, for the purchase of books of a permanent nature for the Law Library

1,000.00

From the Tennessee Eastman Corporation, for a fellowship in organic chemistry

1,200.00

From the Summer Quarter Dance Committee, to be added to the Interfraternity Council Scholarship Fund

350.00

From the American Cyanamid Company, for a graduate scholarship in chemistry for the session of 1948-49

1,500.00

From the United States Public Health Service, a grant for work under the direction of Dr. D. C. Wilson

10,000.00

From the United States Public Health Service, a grant for work under the direction of Dr. R. E. Lutz

12,312.00

From Mrs. Charles T. Neale, a painting - "Fish, Still Life," by William M. Chase

From Mrs. Carter Glass, a portrait of Senator Glass

The regular monthly meeting of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 10 o'clock in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present: The Rector, Edward R. Stettinius, Jr.; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Visitors Calcott, Carrington, Garnett, Gay, Gravatt, Mears, Trout, Wailes, and Willis. Absent: Anderson, Barksdale, Black, Combs, and Miller.

John Segar Gravatt, appointed by the Governor on July 27, 1948 to succeed Maitland Hunt Bustard, resigned, for the term ending February 28, 1950, presented a certificate from the Clerk of Nottoway County that he had duly qualified.

The minutes of the meeting of July 9, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President announced the following gifts:

Upon recommendation of the President, the following resignations, promotions, elections, and appointments were approved.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Arthur August Pegau, Assistant Professor of Geology, be and the same is accepted. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. William Hubert Baughn, Assistant Professor of Rural Economics, be and the same is accepted. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Glenn Ray Noggle, Assistant Professor of Plant Physiology, be and the same is accepted. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

Dr. Frank Sanford Kaulback, Jr. from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Accounting, effective 16 September 1948.

Mr. James Stuart Constantine from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Latin and Greek, effective 16 September 1948.

Dr. Alexander Newton Finchell as Visiting Professor of Geology for the session of 1948-49 at a salary of $5,000.00.

Mr. Gaston G. Fornes as Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering at a session salary of $4,950.00.

Mr. Edward R. Estes, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics at a session salary of $3,510.00.

Mr. Kenneth C. Rathbun as Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering at a session salary of $3,510.00.

Dr. Julius Carl Poindexter as Instructor in Economics for the session of 1948-49 at a session salary of $3,020.00.

Mr. Charles Villiam Smith as part-time Instructor in Art at a session salary of $2,640.00.

Mr. Clyde R. Carter as Instructor in Art at a session salary of $3,210.00.

Dr. Edgar N. Weaver as Instructor in Neurosurgery as of April 1, 1948. His salary is to be paid from the earnings of the Department of Neurosurgery.

Dr. Thomas S. Edwards as Instructor in Internal Medicine as of July 1, 1948, with no salary from the University.

Dr. Bennett S. White, Jr. as Lecturer in Rural Social Economics for the first semester of the 1948-49 session.

Mr. Gay voted in favor of the foregoing promotions and elections but stated that in so doing he was not to be construed as creating "life tenure" of office for any of such persons so promoted or elected.

Lieutenant Commander Marion Felder Barfield as Associate Professor of Naval Science, as of June 8, 1948, without salary from the University.

Major John Hogarth Jones as Associate Professor of Naval Science, as of August 2, 1948, without salary from the University.

Lieutenant Commander John Blackburn Burnett as Associate Professor of Naval Science, as of September 7, 1948, without salary from the University.

President Darden stated that he had invited Mr. William M. Simpson, distinguished sculptor of Norfolk, to visit the University to discuss the possibility of accepting a position on the faculty of the School of Painting and Sculpture. Mr. Simpson stated to Mr. Darden that we could not begin to do the work in sculpture by simply appointing a professor, he pointed out that the costs would be considerable, since live models of professional grade would be necessary.

Mr. Darden has asked President Combs of Mary Washington College if a joint program could be worked out to use some members of the Mary Washington faculty on a part-time basis here at the University.

Mrs. Wailes moved the adoption of the following resolution which was passed:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University collaborate with Mary Washington College in the establishment of a class in sculpture and that President Darden continue to attempt to arrange with Mr. William M. Simpson to accept a position on the faculty.

The President presented for consideration of the Board a letter from Mr. Clarence P. Houston, Chairman of the Compliance Committee of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, to the effect that the University should resign from the NCAA. Mr. Houston stated that the regulations promulgated by the NCAA are a part of the NCAA constitution and that refusal to sign will necessitate withdrawal of the University of Virginia.

The letter was referred to the Special Committee of the Board on NCAA regulations.

The following resolutions were approved:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Robert B. Tunstall be reappointed to the McGregor Advisory Committee, effective July 1, 1948.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. David K. E. Bruce, who was appointed to fill out the unexpired term of the late Mr. Alexander Weddell, be and he is hereby reappointed to the McGregor Advisory Committee, effective July 1, 1948.

At the request of Mr. F. D. G. Ribble, Dean of the Department of Law, the Board approved the allocation of a bequest of $10,000 made by the late Justice James Clark McReynolds as a permanent endowment fund for the Law School. The bequest was made with the hope that the money would be used for the Law School.

A motion that the Board of Visitors appropriate $15,000 for installation of new equipment in the Dry Dock was approved.

A proposal prepared by Mr. George E. Bokinsky, Comptroller of the University of Virginia Hospital, with the collaboration of representatives of the State Auditor of Public Accounts, for charging off uncollectible hospital accounts was approved as submitted.

The Accounts Committee, composed of the Bursar of the University, the Medical Director of the Hospital, and the Comptroller of the Hospital, will review all accounts and make recommendations on the following category:

a. Charge off delayed charges and small balances up to $10.00.

b. Charge off service allowances to hospital employees up to $10.00.

c. Recommend delinquent accounts to local Credit and Collections Bureau.

d. Charge off free service to indigents up to $10.00.

e. Any amount over and above $10.00 recommended for cancellation, whether free service to indigents, service allowance to hospital employees or delinquent patients' accounts, to be referred to the Board of Visitors with a brief history of each case.

A proposal by Mr. F. D. G. Ribble, Dean of the Department of Law, for financing the Virginia Law Weekly by imposing for one year a fee of three dollars per student on each student in the Law School was approved.

A recommendation by Mr. Frank Hartman, Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds, that the basement of Pavilion VIII be reserved when allocation of this pavilion is next made, to provide space for the proposed telephone exchange for the University, was approved.

Action was deferred on a recommendation by Mr. F. D. G. Ribble, Dean of the Department of Law, that the title of Mr. John Ritchie be changed from Assistant Dean to Vice Dean of the Law School.

A resolution passed by the Virginia Law School Association was presented.

WHEREAS, the General Assembly has appropriated $300,000 for the construction of an addition to the Law School Building at the University, subject to release only when the Governor has certified that labor, materials and other facilities can be obtained at reasonable cost; and

WHEREAS the Governor has so far refrained from so certifying with respect to this and a number of other similar appropriations; and

WHEREAS, this Association feels that the need for an addition to the Law Building is most pressing, and that there is no prospect that building costs will decrease at any time within the near future,

NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved that this Association respectfully urges the Governor to certify that labor, materials and other facilities for the construction of said addition to the Law Building can now be obtained at reasonable cost, thereby enabling work to proceed on this much-needed addition to the facilities of the Law School.

RESOLVED FURTHER, that the officers of this Association present copies of this resolution to the Governor and also to the President and Rector of the Board of Visitors of the University.

President Darden stated that the Governor has authorized expenditures for architectural fees but not for construction.

The following resolution was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the interest rate on student loans be set at three per cent to conform with the Executive Order of the Governor, dated August 23, 1948, fixing at three per cent the rate of interest on loans made from State Student Loan Funds; but -

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that this resolution does not affect any interest rate set by a donor at the time of the establishment of a student loan fund.

Action was deferred on a proposal to increase certain laboratory fees in the Department of Engineering.

The question of a location for the plaque awarded the University by the Navy was discussed and the matter was referred to the President with power to act.

The Board agreed to meet at Mary Washington College of the University three times each year. President Darden was asked to determine the dates for these meetings in consultation with President Combs of Mary Washington College.

President Darden stated that the curriculum of the College of Arts and Sciences needed a thorough review and examination, and that he has reconvened the Postwar Committee of the College to restudy the college curriculum.

The President was authorized by the Board to offer the position of Dean of the Department of Medicine to Dr. Vernon W. Lippard of Louisiana State University.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a new form of lease be prepared for student rooms on the grounds, striking the provision in present leases prohibiting liquor in the rooms, but retaining the provision prohibiting women to enter these rooms at any time; and -

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a clause be inserted in said new form of lease providing that the student shall occupy the quarters in a manner which will not reflect discredit on the University.

Mr. Garnett, Chairman of the Committee on Buildings and Grounds, presented to the meeting a deed dated September 10, 1948, with plate attached thereto, the purpose of which is to effect conveyance by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to the City of Charlottesville of certain easements and rights of way ever the lands of the University for the purpose of laying, operating and maintaining an 18-inch pipe line as a part of the water system of the City of Charlottesville, said deed containing a provision for lease of a small tract of land accurately described upon Plat A attached to said deed, under which lease the City of Charlottesville is given the right to use said tract of land for the erection, operation and maintenance of a pumping station.

And Mr. Garnett stated that all details of this conveyance of right of way or easement for said water line and lease for said pumping station had been thoroughly investigated and considered by his Committee with the assistance of Mr. Hartman and Mr. Perkins and recommended that said conveyance and lease be executed and delivered to the City.

Thereupon, it was

RESOLVED that Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, be and is hereby instructed to execute said deed in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and Vincent Shea, Secretary of this Board, is instructed to affix the corporate seal of the University thereto, attest the same, see to execution of said deed on behalf of the City of Charlottesville and to the recordation thereof in the Clerk's Office of the Circuit Court of Albemarle County, and that a copy of said deed be spread as a part of the minutes of this meeting.

THIS DEED made this 10th day of September, 1948, by and between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (hereinafter called "University"), of the first part, and the City of Charlettesville, a municipal corporation (hereinafter called "City"), of the second part,

THAT WHEREAS, due to the continued growth of the City of Charlottesville, it has become necessary for the City to extend its water system; and,

WHEREAS the only practical location for such an extension lies through the grounds of the University of Virginia; and,

WHEREAS it is to the interest of the University that said City should have adequate facilities for supplying the demands of said City and the demands of the University pursuant to a contract of April 18, 1922, between the University and the City, as subsequently amended; and,

WHEREAS, at a meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia duly called, convened and held on September 10, 1948, a resolution was adopted instructing the President to execute a deed in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and the Secretary was instructed to affix the seal of the University thereto, attesting the same, conveying to the City the easements hereinafter more fully described and leasing to the City a small tract of land on which to erect a pumping station hereinafter more fully described;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the agreements on the part of said City hereinafter set out and the further consideration of $1.00 cash in hand paid, said University doth hereby grant, give and convey unto said City an easement or right of way for the sole purpose of constructing and maintaining a new 18-inch water line, with convenient appurtenances thereto, along and through the grounds of the University of Virginia along the rollowing routes:

(1) A line extending from the property of Homer G. Richey lying north of Route 29 to the property of Homer Richey lying north of Stadium Road and from the property of said Homer Richey to the filtration plant, as indicated by the red lines shown on the plat hereto attached and made a part of this deed designated "Plat A";

(2) A line extending from the clear water basin at the filtration plant to U.S. Route No. 29, as indicated by the red lines shown on the plat hereto attached and made a part of this deed designated "Plat B";

(3) A line extending from U.S. Route 29 across the margin of Lambeth Field to Rugby Road, as indicated by the red lines shown on the plat hereto attached and made a part of this deed designated "Plat C";

Together with the right of ingress and egress to and from all points on said lines for the purposes of construction, maintenance and repair.

And in consideration of the foregoing grant said City on its part, as is evidenced by its acceptance of this conveyance and its performance of the work of laying said line, doth hereby agree as follows:

(1) That it will furnish all material and labor necessary for the construction and installation of said new 18-inch water lines in an efficient and workmanlike manner, will commence the work promptly and will complete same as quickly as may be possible under present conditions;

(2) That in the construction of said lines it will adequately protect any and all underground services such as pipe lines, telephone and electric lines, etc., that may be encountered, and if damage of any kind is done to any of these services it will promptly and efficiently repair such damage at its own cost;

(3) That it will replace or repair in a workmanlike manner all walk and road surfaces under which said pipe line may pass, replacing the surfaces of such walks or roads in as good condition as these surfaces were in before the pipe line was placed under them;

(4) That it will carefully and properly back-fill the ditch in which the pipe line is placed, so that in the future no depression shall develop over said pipe line, and where said pipe line crosses Lambeth Field it will carefully replace any sod that may be cut and removed in the construction of said line, and if a depression should occur over said pipe line where the same crosses Lambeth Field it will further fill the same so as to bring the surface of the ground over the pipe line back to the same grade obtaining before the ditch was dug;

(5) That when said pipe line shall interfere with use of the surfaces of the ground by the University said City, when so requested by the University, shall relocate said pipe line in a new location feasible for the purposes for which this pipe line is to be used, at the expense of said City;

(6) That in the construction of said line the City shall cut and remove only such trees and bushes as may be necessary and shall pile up such brush and trees as may be cut in neat piles along the route of the pipe line.

And in further consideration of the premises and $1.00 cash in hand paid, said University doth hereby lease and demise unto the said City for the term of ninety-nine (99) years from the date hereof, with the privilege of renewing this lease at the expiration hereof, a tract or parcel of land situated in Albemarle County, Virginia, lying on the north side of Stadium Road adjoining the property of Homer Richey and more accurately described as the tract of land outlined in blue on Plat A hereinbefore referred to, which tract or parcel of land shall be used by the City for the location of a pumping station on said water line.

And in consideration of the foregoing lease said City on its part doth hereby agree that said tract of land shall be used only in connection with said water line for the location of a pumping station and that any building erected on said land shall be faced with red brick with a dark roof, in accordance with plans approved by the University.

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, pursuant to the aforesaid resolution adopted at a meeting of the Board of Visitors thereof held on September 10, 1948, has caused this deed to be signed by Colgate W. Darden, its President, and its corporate seal to be hereto affixed and attested by Vincent Shea, its Secretary, and the City of Charlottesville has caused this deed to be signed by G. K. Tebell, its Mayor, and its corporate seal to be hereto affixed and attested by its Clerk, the day and year first above written.

ATTEST: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Secretary

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA By\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ President

ATTEST: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Clerk

CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE By\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Mayor

STATE OF VIRGINIA, COUNTY OF ALBEMARLE, to-wit:

I, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, a Notary Public in and for the County and State aforesaid, hereby certify that Colgate W. Darden, whose name as President is signed to the foregoing deed bearing date on the 10th day of September, 1948, has acknowledged the same before me in my County and State aforesaid.

Given under my hand the \_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 1948.

My commission expires the \_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Notary Public

STATE OF VIRGINIA, COUNTY OF ALBEMARLE, to-wit:

I, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, a Notary Public in and for the County and State aforesaid, hereby certify that G. K. Tebell, whose name as Mayor is signed to the foregoing deed bearing date on the 10th day of September, 1948, has acknowledged the same before me in my County and State aforesaid.

Given under my hand this \_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 1948.

My commission expires the \_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Notary Public

(For plats see Deed Book 280, pp. 314, 315, and 316, Clerk's Office of the Circuit Court of Albemarle County, Virginia.)

Mr. Garnett, Chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, reported to the Board that pursuant to instructions given the Committee on Buildings and Grounds at a meeting of this Board held July 9th, last, further investigation had been made as to sale of a portion of the Lambeth property to Mrs. Lambeth, and that his Committee wishes to recommend to the Board that sale and conveyance be made to Mrs. Lambeth of a strip of land cut off of the rear of the Lambeth property, which strip shall have a front of 10 feet on Thomson Road and shall extend back therefrom in a southerly direction and between parallel lines a distance of 239 feet, and that the consideration to be expressed in said deed for this conveyance shall be "$10.00 and other valuable consideration, including the acknowledgment by Mrs. Lambeth that all obligations assumed by the University under its contract of June 22, 1932, to Dr. W. A. Lambeth and herself have been fully discharged down to the date of the deed to her".

It was, thereupon,

RESOLVED that W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for this Board, be and is hereby instructed to prepare a deed by which this strip of land shall be conveyed to Mrs. Frank Irene Lambeth upon the terms set out in the preamble to this resolution. And that Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, be and is hereby instructed to execute this deed in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Vincent Shea, Secretary of this Board, shall affix the corporate seal thereto and attest the same, said Perkins, Attorney, to deliver said deed to Mrs. Lambeth.

The Buildings and Grounds Committee recommended the purchase of the Richey property at a price of $10,000, which recommendation was approved by the Board.

In the absence of Dr. Combs, President of Mary Washington College, the Mary Washington docket was presented by President Darden and the following elections were approved.

Miss Tannye Olivia Burnett as Instructor in Physical Education at a salary of $2,500 for the session, incumbency to begin September 13, 1948.

Mr. Benjamin W. Early as Instructor in English at a salary of $3,000 for the session, incumbency to begin September 13, 1948.

Miss Mary Frances Gratzer as Instructor in Physical Education at a salary of $3,000 for the session, incumbency to begin September 13, 1948.

Mr. Henry Weldon Hewetson as Associate Professor of Economics at a salary of $4,300 for the session, incumbency to begin September 13, 1948.

Mr. Edwin Harvie Jones as Acting Assistant Professor of French and Spanish at a salary of $3,300 for the session, incumbency to begin September 13, 1948.

There being no further business to come before the meeting, the same was adjourned after a motion to that effect had been made, seconded, and carried.