Board of Visitors minutes (1950) February 10, 1950
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

February 10, 1950

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

7 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

GIFTS LEAVE OF ABSENCE ELECTIONS APPOINTMENT UNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS NAMES FOR NEW DORMITORY UNITS Names Proposed for the Dormitory Units MCCORMICK ROAD SALE OF LAND ON LANE ROAD GRADUATE PROFESSIONAL DEGREES IN EDUCATION THE DEGREE OF MASTER OF EDUCATION Requirements for the Master of Education Degree THE DEGREE OF DOCTOR OF EDUCATIONPROGRAM OF GRADUATE WORK IN EXTENSION ATHLETICS Membership in Southern Conference Athletics Council Proposed Athletic Scholarships Football REPORT OF FINANCE COMMITTEE RESOLUTION IN MEMORY OF DR. TROUT DEVELOPMENT FUND MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS DEGREE IN HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND RECREATION REPORT ON GRADES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the estate of the late Virginia Chase Weddell, for general purposes of the University

$5,298.36

From the Seven Society, to be used toward a memorial to Dr. Peters Rushton

177.77

Charles Bonnycastle

Mr. Jefferson's professor of Mathematics

John Patten Emmet

Mr. Jefferson's professor of Chemistry

Charles William Kent

English

Milton Wylie Humphreys

Greek

James Morris Page

Mathematics, "The Dean"

William Holding Echols

Mathematics

Richard Heath Dabney

History, first dean of Graduate Department

John Calvin Metcalf

English, second dean of Graduate Department

Albert Lefevre

Philosophy

Charles Hancock

Engineering

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of Mary Washington College, Fredericksburg, Virginia, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia, Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College, Visitors Anderson, Carrington, Garnett, Gay, Mears, Smith, and Willis. Absent: Visitors Barksdale, Gravatt, Howard, Talbott, and Wailes.

The minutes of the meeting of January 20, 1950, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President announced receipt of the following gifts

Upon recommendation of the President, the following leave of absence, elections, and appointment were approved.

Dr. Robert K. Gooch, Professor of Political Science, granted leave of absence for a year, beginning February 1, 1950, for research in France.

Dr. John Hamilton Allan elected Professor of Orthopedics and chairman of the School of Orthopedics, at a basic salary of $5,000 from the University, effective July 1, 1950

Dr. Monroe D. Eaton elected Visiting Professor of Bacteriology for the second semester of the session of 1949-50, effective February 1, 1950, at a salary of $2,500 for the semester.

Commander Charles A. Burch appointed Associate Professor of Naval Science, effective upon his arrival at the University in the summer of 1950, at no salary from the University.

The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules 103, 105, and 106, aggregating $13,209.84, recommended by them for cancellation.

A report was presented from a special committee of the University Senate on proposed names for the new dormitory units now under construction, and the names were approved as recommended

The names were selected on the basis of stature in the world of scholarship, influence on the University of their day, and in the case of the last two their hold on the affections of the alumni growing out of their personal influence on students. About forty names were considered out of which the selection was made. It was a matter of regret that men like Tuttle and Dunnington had to be passed over. The name of Albert H. Tuttle might well be considered for the Life Science Building. Of the earlier men of note, we regretted having no place for men like Maupin and Courtney.

Mr. Gay moved that only the surname be used on the tablet on the exterior of each building, but that a bronze plaque be placed in each dormitory giving the full name of the individual for whom the building is named, together with the position he held at the University. The motion was passed and it was further resolved that at a future date similar bronze tablets would be placed in the present dormitories.

It was called to the attention of the Board that the road leading from Route 29 to the Leander McCormick Observatory is known as "Observatory Road" and also as "McCormick Road," and that this double designation had resulted in confusion, inasmuch as there is also in Charlottesville an Observatory Avenue. Members of the Board felt it proper for the road to be named in honor of the donor of the Observatory, and its designation as "McCormick Road" was approved.

President Darden presented to the Board a preamble and draft of an Act which has been prepared to enable this Board to sell a narrow strip of land owned by the University and situated in the sub-division known as Park Place which lies just east of the Frys Springs Road and across that road from the Nurses' Home

A copy of said preamble and proposed Act was ordered filed with the minutes of this meeting and it was therefore

Resolved: That W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, be instructed to send copies of said preamble and Act to Mr. Henry B. Gordon and to Mr. James F. Dulaney, the Representatives of Charlottesville and of Albemarle County in the House of Delegates, stating that this Board requests them to secure passage of said Act at the present Session of the General Assembly

WHEREAS, by deed dated 10 May 1884, G. Peyton and Champe C. Peyton, his wife, conveyed to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia all that certain tract or parcel of land lying on the southerly side of Fry's Springs Road in the City of Charlottesville, Virginia near the University of Virginia, and more particularly described as follows. Beginning at a point in 10 foot alley and corner of piece of ground known as Lot No. 10 (this being Lot No. 11) and running thence S 28° 45′ W and 2.85 chains to point on said Fry's Springs Road, thence N 72° 15′ E along said Fry's Springs Road 1.55 chains, thence N 30° 45′ E and 1.58 chains, thence along line of Lot No. 10 S 52° 45′ E and 1.28 chains to point of beginning and 10 foot alley, containing about one-quarter acre, more or less, and,

WHEREAS, a street (now known as Lane Road) has been opened across the southerly portion of the said tract, leaving a small portion of the said lot lying on the southerly side of the said road, the said small portion being more particularly described as follows. Beginning at an iron in the Southeast corner of the intersection of 15th Street, S. W., and Lane Road, at the south or back edge of a concrete sidewalk and with the back edge of the sidewalk S 58° 28′ E 96.48 feet to an iron in the west margin of a 10 foot alley, thence with the west margin of the alley S 29° 21′ W 4.8 feet to a point, the northeast corner of Lot No. 24 of the Park Place Improvement Company, thence with the Northern line of said Lot No. 24 N 61° 25′ W 97.7 feet to a point in the eastern margin of 15th Street, S. W., the Northwest corner of said Lot No. 24, thence with the east margin of said 15th Street, N 37° 13′ E 9.8 feet to the beginning, and,

WHEREAS, the owner of the said Lot No. 24, adjoining the said small strip on its southerly side, desires to purchase the said small strip of land,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF VIRGINIA.

1\. The Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia be, and it hereby is, authorized to sell and direct the conveyance of the said small strip of land, described as aforesaid, to W. B. Russell, owner of Lot No. 24 aforesaid, for such price and upon such terms and conditions as the said Board of Visitors may determine, conveying to the said W. B. Russell all right, title and interest which the said Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia may have in the said small strip of land, as heretofore described.

President Darden presented for consideration of the Board a program for awarding graduate professional degrees in the Department of Education, as set forth in the following letter from Dean Lindley J. Stiles

The Department of Education respectfully requests that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia approve

1\. The establishment of graduate professional degrees in education—;the Master of Education and Doctor of Education degrees—;to be administered by the Department of Education;

2\. The development of a program of graduate extension work by the Department of Education in cooperation with the University Extension Division.

Detailed descriptions of the degree requirements and of the proposed program of work in extension are attached.

These requests, as outlined, have been considered favorably by both the Department of Graduate Studies and the University Senate. After considering the need for graduate professional degrees and a program of graduate extension work in education, the Graduate Committee of the Department of Graduate Studies unanimously approved the following statement in its meeting on January 17, 1950.

"The Graduate Committee recognizes the need for professional graduate degrees in Education and favors the presentation of the proposals of Dean Lindley J. Stiles to the University Senate. The Committee recommends that these professional degrees, when established, be administered by the Department of Education."

The University Senate, on February 3, 1950, in consideration of the above action by the Department of Graduate Studies, voted unanimously to recommend to the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Department of Education be authorized to grant professional graduate degrees in education and to develop in cooperation with the University Extension Division a program of graduate extension work in the field of education.

Authority for the granting of professional degrees by the Department of Education was established by action of the Board of Visitors in its January 12, 1920, meeting. Excerpts from the minutes (Minutes, page 164, Vol. IX) of that meeting read:

"Resolved, that the Rector and Visitors of the University be requested to grant authority to organize the Curry Memorial School of Education into a Department, coordinate with the other professional departments of the University, with power to confer appropriate professional degrees

"The above was disposed of in the following resolution, being unanimously adopted:

"Resolved by the Rector and Visitors of the University, that the request of the Curry Memorial School of Education to organize said school into a Department, coordinate with the other professional departments of the University, with power to confer appropriate professional degrees, be and is hereby granted."

Since the above action was taken the Curry Memorial Department of Education has been granting three undergraduate professional degrees: the Bachelor of Science in Education; the Bachelor of Science in Nursing Education; and the Bachelor of Science in Physical Education. The present request for approval of the granting of graduate professional degrees by the Department of Education is in accord with the functions prescribed and delegated to the Department of Education as a professional department of the University

The prerogatives for the granting of graduate professional degrees by professional departments of the University and for offering graduate work in extension are already reputably established in the University of Virginia. Graduate professional degrees are now being granted by the Departments of Law, Medicine and Engineering. The Department of Engineering has developed a program of graduate work in extension leading to the Master of Science degree in Engineering.

The requests by the Department of Education are in accord with established practices in other major universities. Their implementation will represent fundamental and necessary steps in the direction of making available through the Department of Education greater service to teachers and to public education throughout the Commonwealth of Virginia.

A student approved for admission to graduate work in education will have the option of undertaking (1) a program leading to the present Master of Arts degree, with education as a field of specialization, provided he meets the admission requirements of the Department of Graduate Studies, or (2) a program leading to the Master of Education Degree.

The student who elects to pursue the Master of Education will register in the Curry Memorial Department of Education—;Graduate Division. Such registration must have the approval of the Dean of the Department and must be completed prior to enrollment in graduate courses in order for work completed to be applied toward fulfilling the requirements for the Master of Education degree.

Admission: A student holding the Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university may become a candidate for the Master of Education degree provided he gives evidence of adequate preparation for the type of work to be pursued.

Advisory Committee: At the time of registration each student will select, in consultation with the Dean of the Department of Education, an adviser who will approve the student's initial registration in graduate courses. During the first period of graduate study the student and his adviser will recommend to the Dean of the Department of Education two additional faculty members, who, along with the Adviser will constitute the student's Advisory Committee.

Approval of Professional Degree Program: Each student working toward the Master of Education degree will plan, with the help of his Advisory Committee, a program of study adapted to his educational background, professional experience and anticipated professional objectives. In all cases, the student's program will be projected in such manner that it forms a consistent plan of work and is directed toward a definite professional goal. The Advisory Committee and the Dean of the Department of Education must approve for the Department of Education the proposed program.

The Degree Program: A student must complete a minimum program of twenty-four semester-hours in graduate courses which have received the approval of his Advisory Committee and of the Dean of the Department of Education and must, in addition, include in his program of work one of the following: (1) one or more graduate courses with a minimum credit value of six semester-hours; (2) a thesis; or (3) a research study of a field project approved and directed by his adviser, in cooperation with other members of the Advisory Committee.

Examinations: Each candidate for the Master of Education degree must pass a comprehensive examination in the field or fields in which the degree program is projected. When a thesis or field study is included in the student's degree program the examination will give appropriate consideration to the quality and extent of these projects.

Inclusion of Graduate Extension Work in the Master of Education Degree Program: A student who pursues graduate study through the program of extension work developed by the Department of Education will be permitted to apply, upon approval of his Advisory Committee, twelve to fifteen hours of such credit toward the course requirements of the Master of Education degree. Approval for counting more than twelve hours of graduate extension credit toward the degree must be secured from the Dean and the Faculty of the Department of Education. In no case may more than half of the course work submitted for the Master of Education degree be work taken in extension.

Transfer of Credit from Other Institutions: Upon approval of his Advisory Committee and the Dean of the Department of Education a student may transfer a maximum of six semester-hours of graduate credit in other accredited institutions to apply toward the requirements of the Master of Education degree in the Department of Education of the University of Virginia. In no case, however, may the total amount of transfer credit and credit earned through extension work equal more than one-half of the total credits required for the degree and when the total exceeds twelve semester-hours it must be approved by the Dean and the Faculty of the Department of Education.

The program for the Doctor of Education degree is designed to prepare the student within a broad context for professional proficiency in the field of education. Candidates for this degree must show evidence of competency and of ability to assume a position of leadership in the field of education. The special requirements for the degree are shown below.

Admission: A student seeking admission to candidacy to this degree shall have approved baccalaureate and master's degrees. The candidate must have had successful experience in the field of education. Admission of the candidate in the Department of Education must be approved by the Dean.

Program: A student seeking candidacy to the Doctor of Education degree may satisfy residence requirements by one of two patterns: (1) he may register continuously in graduate courses until he had completed a minimum of thirty semester-hours. Eighteen of these must be done in courses in residence. The remaining twelve hours may be completed through doctoral seminars offered in extension, (2) he may register for one session of two full semesters work in residence. A complete program showing the courses the student expects to pursue in meeting the requirements for the Doctor of Education degree must be filed with the Dean of the Department of Education by the end of the first semester after admission to graduate study for this degree.

Advisory Committee: At the time of registration each student will select, in consultation with the Dean of the Department of Education, an adviser who will approve the student's initial registration

During the first semester of doctoral study the student and his adviser will recommend to the Dean of the Department of Education two additional faculty members, who, along with the adviser, will constitute the student's doctoral Advisory Committee.

Qualifying Examinations: The prospective candidate shall, after completing a minimum of twelve semester-hours of work, take a qualifying examination in order to satisfy his Advisory Committee that the depth and breadth of his professional knowledge is adequate for the pursuit of the Doctor of Education degree.

Field of Concentration: After successful completion of the qualifying examinations the student becomes eligible to pursue further work in selected fields of concentration. For this phase of his program, he will select a minimum of three fields in which specialization will be developed, and related to which it is expected that the dissertation will eventually be projected.

Supervised Field Study Project: Prior to the time the student undertakes the final written examination on fields of concentration, he will undertake under the supervision of a member of the staff of the Department of Education a supervised field study project. This project will be carried out for the purpose of demonstrating ability to complete successfully an experiment designed to improve an educational program. The quality of the demonstrated leadership throughout this supervised field study project will be taken into account in the consideration of the student for candidacy of the Doctor of Education degree.

Examination on Fields of Concentration and Field Study: At least one semester prior to the date on which the candidate expects to receive the Doctor of Education degree, each candidate must take a final written examination covering the three or more fields of concentration. In addition to covering fields of concentration, this examination will also deal with his supervised field study project.

The Dissertation: A candidate for the Doctor of Education degree will project and carry out under the supervision of his Advisory Committee a research problem appropriate for a dissertation for this degree. In general, this problem will grow out of an actual educational situation. The dissertation may be undertaken with the approval of the Advisory Committee after the successful completion of the qualifying examinations.

Defense of the Dissertation: When the dissertation has secured the approval of the members of the student's Advisory Committee, the Dean of the Department of Education shall notify the candidate of the time set for the defense of the dissertation. The examination committee shall consist of not less than five members of the graduate faculty of the University of Virginia. Normally, members of the student's Advisory Committee will serve on the examination committee. Members of the examination committee must vote unanimously favorably in order for the student to be declared eligible to receive the degree of Doctor of Education.

Transfer of Credit from Other Institutions: A student may be allowed, upon approval of his Advisory Committee to apply a maximum of twelve semester-hours of graduate work beyond the Master's degree earned in another approved institution to the requirements of the Doctor of Education degree in the University of Virginia.

In order that a greater contribution may be made to the in-service education of teachers throughout the state, the Department of Education specifically requests approval for the offering of certain graduate work in education through established extension centers and in other cooperating institutions of higher learning in Virginia. Such a program of graduate work in education will be developed in cooperation with the University Extension Division.

Organization of Graduate Extension Work in Education: It is anticipated that graduate work in extension will be offered in accordance with three patterns of organization:

a. Selected graduate extension centers will be established throughout the State in which regular schedules or curricula of graduate courses in education will be offered. Those courses which are uniquely adapted for field work will be selected for graduate extension offerings. It is pointed out that the laboratory work for certain courses in education may be more easily offered to teachers while they are on the job working with students in actual school situations. Courses dealing with the study of child growth and development, guidance, curriculum development, supervision, instructional improvement, audio-visual aids, and improvement of reading, are illustrations of the type of courses that will be offered in extension

b. Other colleges and universities in the state will be invited to cooperate with the University of Virginia in making graduate work in education available to teachers. Cooperative programs will be established which provide for qualified staff members in other institutions to offer graduate work accredited by the Department of Education of the University of Virginia. Upon approval of this plan, efforts will be made to develop in cooperation with other institutions of higher learning in the State a program of graduate work in education organized on a state-wide, rather than institution-centered, basis. Such a program will permit the utilization of all resources for graduate work in education of collegiate institutions in Virginia, without unnecessary duplication. The University of Virginia should appropriately offer leadership in the development of a state-wide program of graduate work in education and may well serve as the major degree granting agency for the program.

c. In selected city and county school systems practicum courses approved for extension offerings will be made available to groups of teachers of a particular school district. Such courses will be under the direct supervision and direction of the Department of Education of the University of Virginia and will be designed to assist groups of teachers to undertake the actual improvement of a particular educational program. Through such offerings it is anticipated that the Department of Education of the University will be able to contribute directly to the solution of critical problems faced by school systems

Provision of Staff for Graduate Extension Courses in Education: It is anticipated that all extension work will be carried on by members of the staff of the Department of Education. Whenever faculty members from other colleges are invited to offer graduate extension courses, they will be appointed as acting part-time lecturers or professors in education to the staff of the Department of Education. It is expected that most members of the resident staff will be teaching in the field part-time and on the grounds part-time. Such experiences, it is believed, will be beneficial both to members of the staff and to teachers in the field. It will keep staff members of the Department of Education in close touch with developments in public schools and will help them relate their efforts in graduate instruction to the problems of education in the State of Virginia

The Board approved the establishment of the program described above, leading to the granting of the degrees of Master of Education and Doctor of Education, to be administered by the Department of Education, and also approved the program of graduate extension work in the field of education

The President presented a letter from Mr. C. P. Miles, Dean of the College of Virginia Polytechnic Institute, inquiring if the University would be receptive to an invitation to rejoin the Southern Conference if such an invitation were extended. This proposal was referred to the Athletics Committee with a request for a report at the March meeting of the Board. The President was asked to inform Mr. Miles of the action taken.

The Rector stated that there had been a number of questions raised concerning the present management of athletics at the University and that he had received a suggestion that a Council on Athletics be established, composed of two members of the Board of Visitors, two members of the Alumni Board of Managers, and two members of the faculty.

Mr. Anderson proposed the following resolution, which was unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED that the Athletics Committee be authorized to invite the Board of Managers of the Alumni Association to appoint two of its members to sit with the Athletics Committee of the Board of Visitors in considering the athletic policy of the University, this group to meet about twice a year and discuss with officials of the Department of Athletics their proposed program.

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that after each such meeting, the Athletics Committee be and is hereby requested to recommend appropriate action to the President and the Board of Visitors.

President Darden asked the Board to establish a definite policy regarding scholarships to be awarded University of Virginia athletes. The Board thereupon adopted a resolution stating that such scholarships would be limited to an amount sufficient to cover cost of tuition and fees, books, room, and board

The President was authorized to offer Mr. Arthur Guepe a three year football contract at a base salary of $9,000 per year with an annual increase of $250, with the proviso that Albert Guepe be replaced as backfield coach. If this offer proved acceptable to Mr. Guepe, the Board wished the position of backfield coach to be offered to Mr. William Dudley who formerly held this position.

The Finance Committee presented the following report on the handling of the Consolidated Endowment Fund for the year beginning January 25, 1949.

It is our pleasure to submit herewith a report and summary of the handling of the Consolidated Endowment Fund by State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, Richmond, Virginia, for the period January 25, 1949, to January 25, 1950.

It will be observed that the large volume of transactions during the year resulted in the elimination of a number of inherited investments which, for various reasons, were not deemed suitable for continued retention, and in an improvement of the general quality and diversification of the investments at no sacrifice of income. Actually, the yield on investments disposed of averaged 3.67% whereas a yield of 4.81% was obtained on the new investments during the year

The handling of the account as a whole by State-Planters Bank and Trust Company is most gratifying to your Committee, as it will be observed that the effective yield on the book value of the fund at the present time is estimated at 4.29% compared with 3.96% one year ago. These yield figures are based upon an estimate of the income to be received during the coming year on the present investments at present dividend and interest rates. The actual yield obtained during 1949, based upon a weighted average by months of the actual book value during 1949, was 4.26%, which compares with a yield of 4.02% on book value during 1948.

Attached to the report and summary you will observe certain schedules showing the diversification of the assets at market values as of January 25, 1950. The diversification is first shown as between bonds, preferred stocks, and common stocks - 44%, 20%, and 36%, respectively. The diversification is then shown by industries. Heading the list is the utility industry representing 26.5% of the account as a whole. From the first page of the complete list of assets it will be noted that utility bonds represent 8.3% of the account as a whole, utility preferred stocks represent 8.4% and the utility common stocks represent 9.8%. This latter common stock figure has also been broken down to show the telephone and telegraph stocks represent 3.1%, natural gas stocks 1.4%, and electric utility stocks 5.3% of the total account.

In the detailed list of investments in industries it is to be noted that each individual investment is stated at its cost and at its current price, and in this manner the Board will be able to observe the performance of each individual investment and of each category of investments.

In order that the Rector and each member of the Board may have an opportunity critically to review the report and summary provided by the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, fifteen copies thereof are submitted with this report.

It is the purpose of your Committee to ask that consideration of the report be made a special order of business at the March meeting of the Board, at which time officers of the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company will be asked to appear, for the purpose of reviewing the account personally and presenting to the Board a general statement of their views and recommendations in respect to the handling of the funds

Mr. Gay was requested to invite officials of the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company to be present at the March meeting to answer any questions regarding administration of the University

The committee of Messrs. Gay, Carrington, and Barksdale appointed to compose a resolution in memory of Dr. Trout presented the following resolution, which was unanimously adopted.

RESOLVED, that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia record with sincere regret their sense of loss and sorrow over the passing of their friend and fellow member, Hugh Henry Trout, Sr., who departed this life on January 13, 1950.

After graduating from the Medical School of the University in 1902, Dr. Trout passed rapidly to the top of his chosen profession and, as Lt. Colonel in the Medical Corps, U. S. Army (1918-1919), Fellow American College of Surgeons, member American Medical Association, Southern Medical Association and American Surgical Association, and as President of Southern Surgical Association (1931) and of Medical Society of Virginia (1940), acquired wide knowledge and experience and attained great eminence in the field of medicine and surgery. This knowledge and experience he brought in full measure to the councils of this Board, to which he was appointed in 1946. As Chairman of its Committee on the Medical School and in its general work, he gave freely of his time and effort.

Courtesy and consideration characterized his manner, frankness his utterances, and the warmth of his personality endeared him to all whose privilege it was to work with him. A distinguished alumnus, and an honored member of this Board, he will live long in the minds and hearts of his many friends.

RESOLVED FURTHER, that an engrossed copy of these resolutions be made available to his family

Mr. Anderson reported that the Development Fund Committee had met in Richmond and authorized Dean Ribble to confer with Mr. Knox Turnbull to see if he would be interested in heading the Development Fund drive, at no salary. Mr. Turnbull expressed great interest in the Development Fund and stated that he would be delighted to give as much time as he could to the project provided a small office staff could be made available to handle routine matters. Mr. Anderson suggested a budget of from $5,000 to $10,000 per year

Mr. Anderson stated that he believed the name of the Development Fund should be changed to "Mr. Jefferson's Sponsors" with Mr. Darden as President and Mr. Turnbull as Executive Vice-President, with the present Board of Trustees of the Development Fund serving as the Board of Directors.

He stated that he believed people throughout the country could be persuaded to join a group of "Mr. Jefferson's Sponsors" on the basis that they would contribute $100 per year. In each community "Mr. Jefferson's Sponsors" would form a local group to help raise funds for the University. He stated that he thought the first $100,000 raised each year should be used to supplement faculty salaries. After considerable discussion Mr. Anderson moved that the name of the Development Fund be changed to "Mr. Jefferson's Sponsors" and that the Board of Visitors underwrite this organization for one year in an amount not to exceed $10,000. The motion was passed, and it was further resolved to ask the Development Fund to pay its pro rata share of the costs of this office for the amount spent in collecting pledges to the Development Fund.

After careful study of the degrees offered at Mary Washington College, the Committee on Mary Washington recommended to the Board the establishment of a special B. S. degree in Health, Physical Education and Recreation. The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized to confer a special B. S. degree in Health, Physical Education and Recreation.

Mr. Gay moved that the student grades reported by Mary Washington College to the Board of Visitors be sent to members of the Board on the same basis as those prepared at the University. The motion was passed

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

The Department of Education respectfully requests that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia approve

1\. The establishment of graduate professional degrees in education—;the Master of Education and Doctor of Education degrees—;to be administered by the Department of Education;

2\. The development of a program of graduate extension work by the Department of Education in cooperation with the University Extension Division.

Detailed descriptions of the degree requirements and of the proposed program of work in extension are attached.

These requests, as outlined, have been considered favorably by both the Department of Graduate Studies and the University Senate. After considering the need for graduate professional degrees and a program of graduate extension work in education, the Graduate Committee of the Department of Graduate Studies unanimously approved the following statement in its meeting on January 17, 1950.

"The Graduate Committee recognizes the need for professional graduate degrees in Education and favors the presentation of the proposals of Dean Lindley J. Stiles to the University Senate. The Committee recommends that these professional degrees, when established, be administered by the Department of Education."

The University Senate, on February 3, 1950, in consideration of the above action by the Department of Graduate Studies, voted unanimously to recommend to the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Department of Education be authorized to grant professional graduate degrees in education and to develop in cooperation with the University Extension Division a program of graduate extension work in the field of education.

Authority for the granting of professional degrees by the Department of Education was established by action of the Board of Visitors in its January 12, 1920, meeting. Excerpts from the minutes (Minutes, page 164, Vol. IX) of that meeting read:

"Resolved, that the Rector and Visitors of the University be requested to grant authority to organize the Curry Memorial School of Education into a Department, coordinate with the other professional departments of the University, with power to confer appropriate professional degrees

"The above was disposed of in the following resolution, being unanimously adopted:

"Resolved by the Rector and Visitors of the University, that the request of the Curry Memorial School of Education to organize said school into a Department, coordinate with the other professional departments of the University, with power to confer appropriate professional degrees, be and is hereby granted."

Since the above action was taken the Curry Memorial Department of Education has been granting three undergraduate professional degrees: the Bachelor of Science in Education; the Bachelor of Science in Nursing Education; and the Bachelor of Science in Physical Education. The present request for approval of the granting of graduate professional degrees by the Department of Education is in accord with the functions prescribed and delegated to the Department of Education as a professional department of the University

The prerogatives for the granting of graduate professional degrees by professional departments of the University and for offering graduate work in extension are already reputably established in the University of Virginia. Graduate professional degrees are now being granted by the Departments of Law, Medicine and Engineering. The Department of Engineering has developed a program of graduate work in extension leading to the Master of Science degree in Engineering.

The requests by the Department of Education are in accord with established practices in other major universities. Their implementation will represent fundamental and necessary steps in the direction of making available through the Department of Education greater service to teachers and to public education throughout the Commonwealth of Virginia.

It is our pleasure to submit herewith a report and summary of the handling of the Consolidated Endowment Fund by State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, Richmond, Virginia, for the period January 25, 1949, to January 25, 1950.

It will be observed that the large volume of transactions during the year resulted in the elimination of a number of inherited investments which, for various reasons, were not deemed suitable for continued retention, and in an improvement of the general quality and diversification of the investments at no sacrifice of income. Actually, the yield on investments disposed of averaged 3.67% whereas a yield of 4.81% was obtained on the new investments during the year

The handling of the account as a whole by State-Planters Bank and Trust Company is most gratifying to your Committee, as it will be observed that the effective yield on the book value of the fund at the present time is estimated at 4.29% compared with 3.96% one year ago. These yield figures are based upon an estimate of the income to be received during the coming year on the present investments at present dividend and interest rates. The actual yield obtained during 1949, based upon a weighted average by months of the actual book value during 1949, was 4.26%, which compares with a yield of 4.02% on book value during 1948.

Attached to the report and summary you will observe certain schedules showing the diversification of the assets at market values as of January 25, 1950. The diversification is first shown as between bonds, preferred stocks, and common stocks - 44%, 20%, and 36%, respectively. The diversification is then shown by industries. Heading the list is the utility industry representing 26.5% of the account as a whole. From the first page of the complete list of assets it will be noted that utility bonds represent 8.3% of the account as a whole, utility preferred stocks represent 8.4% and the utility common stocks represent 9.8%. This latter common stock figure has also been broken down to show the telephone and telegraph stocks represent 3.1%, natural gas stocks 1.4%, and electric utility stocks 5.3% of the total account.

In the detailed list of investments in industries it is to be noted that each individual investment is stated at its cost and at its current price, and in this manner the Board will be able to observe the performance of each individual investment and of each category of investments.

In order that the Rector and each member of the Board may have an opportunity critically to review the report and summary provided by the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, fifteen copies thereof are submitted with this report.

It is the purpose of your Committee to ask that consideration of the report be made a special order of business at the March meeting of the Board, at which time officers of the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company will be asked to appear, for the purpose of reviewing the account personally and presenting to the Board a general statement of their views and recommendations in respect to the handling of the funds

The Department of Education respectfully requests that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia approve

1\. The establishment of graduate professional degrees in education—;the Master of Education and Doctor of Education degrees—;to be administered by the Department of Education;

2\. The development of a program of graduate extension work by the Department of Education in cooperation with the University Extension Division.

Detailed descriptions of the degree requirements and of the proposed program of work in extension are attached.

These requests, as outlined, have been considered favorably by both the Department of Graduate Studies and the University Senate. After considering the need for graduate professional degrees and a program of graduate extension work in education, the Graduate Committee of the Department of Graduate Studies unanimously approved the following statement in its meeting on January 17, 1950.

"The Graduate Committee recognizes the need for professional graduate degrees in Education and favors the presentation of the proposals of Dean Lindley J. Stiles to the University Senate. The Committee recommends that these professional degrees, when established, be administered by the Department of Education."

The University Senate, on February 3, 1950, in consideration of the above action by the Department of Graduate Studies, voted unanimously to recommend to the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Department of Education be authorized to grant professional graduate degrees in education and to develop in cooperation with the University Extension Division a program of graduate extension work in the field of education.

Authority for the granting of professional degrees by the Department of Education was established by action of the Board of Visitors in its January 12, 1920, meeting. Excerpts from the minutes (Minutes, page 164, Vol. IX) of that meeting read:

"Resolved, that the Rector and Visitors of the University be requested to grant authority to organize the Curry Memorial School of Education into a Department, coordinate with the other professional departments of the University, with power to confer appropriate professional degrees

"The above was disposed of in the following resolution, being unanimously adopted:

"Resolved by the Rector and Visitors of the University, that the request of the Curry Memorial School of Education to organize said school into a Department, coordinate with the other professional departments of the University, with power to confer appropriate professional degrees, be and is hereby granted."

Since the above action was taken the Curry Memorial Department of Education has been granting three undergraduate professional degrees: the Bachelor of Science in Education; the Bachelor of Science in Nursing Education; and the Bachelor of Science in Physical Education. The present request for approval of the granting of graduate professional degrees by the Department of Education is in accord with the functions prescribed and delegated to the Department of Education as a professional department of the University

The prerogatives for the granting of graduate professional degrees by professional departments of the University and for offering graduate work in extension are already reputably established in the University of Virginia. Graduate professional degrees are now being granted by the Departments of Law, Medicine and Engineering. The Department of Engineering has developed a program of graduate work in extension leading to the Master of Science degree in Engineering.

The requests by the Department of Education are in accord with established practices in other major universities. Their implementation will represent fundamental and necessary steps in the direction of making available through the Department of Education greater service to teachers and to public education throughout the Commonwealth of Virginia.

It is our pleasure to submit herewith a report and summary of the handling of the Consolidated Endowment Fund by State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, Richmond, Virginia, for the period January 25, 1949, to January 25, 1950.

It will be observed that the large volume of transactions during the year resulted in the elimination of a number of inherited investments which, for various reasons, were not deemed suitable for continued retention, and in an improvement of the general quality and diversification of the investments at no sacrifice of income. Actually, the yield on investments disposed of averaged 3.67% whereas a yield of 4.81% was obtained on the new investments during the year

The handling of the account as a whole by State-Planters Bank and Trust Company is most gratifying to your Committee, as it will be observed that the effective yield on the book value of the fund at the present time is estimated at 4.29% compared with 3.96% one year ago. These yield figures are based upon an estimate of the income to be received during the coming year on the present investments at present dividend and interest rates. The actual yield obtained during 1949, based upon a weighted average by months of the actual book value during 1949, was 4.26%, which compares with a yield of 4.02% on book value during 1948.

Attached to the report and summary you will observe certain schedules showing the diversification of the assets at market values as of January 25, 1950. The diversification is first shown as between bonds, preferred stocks, and common stocks - 44%, 20%, and 36%, respectively. The diversification is then shown by industries. Heading the list is the utility industry representing 26.5% of the account as a whole. From the first page of the complete list of assets it will be noted that utility bonds represent 8.3% of the account as a whole, utility preferred stocks represent 8.4% and the utility common stocks represent 9.8%. This latter common stock figure has also been broken down to show the telephone and telegraph stocks represent 3.1%, natural gas stocks 1.4%, and electric utility stocks 5.3% of the total account.

In the detailed list of investments in industries it is to be noted that each individual investment is stated at its cost and at its current price, and in this manner the Board will be able to observe the performance of each individual investment and of each category of investments.

In order that the Rector and each member of the Board may have an opportunity critically to review the report and summary provided by the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, fifteen copies thereof are submitted with this report.

It is the purpose of your Committee to ask that consideration of the report be made a special order of business at the March meeting of the Board, at which time officers of the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company will be asked to appear, for the purpose of reviewing the account personally and presenting to the Board a general statement of their views and recommendations in respect to the handling of the funds