Board of Visitors minutes (1950) September 8, 1950
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

September 8, 1950

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

4 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

GIFTS RESIGNATIONS LEAVES OF ABSENCE ELECTIONS UNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS NEWMAN HOUSE ON DAWSON'S ROW WEDDELL BEQUEST BUILDING PROGRAM Women's Dormitory Power Plant BLUE CROSS CONTRACT RESOLUTION ON DEATH OF MR. CAMPBELL Resolution Upon the Death of Edmund Schureman Campbell RESOLUTION ON RETIREMENT OF MR. CLEMONS Resolution Upon the Retirement of Harry Clemons, Librarian MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS RESIGNATION PROMOTION ELECTIONS ANNUAL REPORT ON LIBRARY BUDGET 1950-51 RIGHT OF WAY ACROSS "BROMPTON"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mrs. Robert Osborne Price, for construction of an organ in the University Chapel as a memorial to her husband, who was an alumnus of the University of Virginia

$12,860.00

From Mr. F. B. Kline, of Norton, Virginia, to be added to the McIntire Tumor Clinic Fund

100.00

From the U. S. Rubber Company, for a fellowship in Physics for the session 1950-51

1,500.00

From the U. S. Government, Department of State, to carry out a program of training, observation and study of American government for German consular and foreign service specialists

Contract SCC-2469 for ten students, June 15 - September 15, 1950

10,050.00

Contract SCC-2582 for twelve students to January 31, 1951

19,454.00

From the Bollingen Foundation, Inc., for investigation of a collection of eighteenth century literary material in England, by Professor D. C. Yalden-Thomson

750.00

From Merck and Company, Inc., for a postgraduate fellowship in Chemistry for the session 1950-51

1,800.00

From the estate of the late Malcolm Griffin, a further distribution, to be added to the endowment fund

533.33

From the estate of the late William J. Rucker, in final settlement, for the general purposes of the Hospital

10,097.59

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College, Visitors Carrington, Emmett, Garnett, Gay, Gravatt, Howard, Mears, Smith, and Willis. Absent: Visitors Anderson, Barksdale, Talbott, and Wailes

The minutes of the meeting of August 7, 1950, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President announced receipt of the following gifts.

Upon recommendation of the President, the following resignations, leaves of absence, and elections were approved.

RESOLVED that the resignation of Dr. William E. Apperson, Instructor in Medicine, be and it is hereby accepted as of September 1, 1950. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following resignations be and they are hereby accepted

Jewell Reaves, R. N., Instructor in Nursing, as of June 30, 1950.

Frances Mears, R. N., B. S., Assistant Professor of Nursing, as of June 30, 1950.

Margaret Holbrook, R. N., B. S., Assistant Professor of Nursing, as of July 31, 1950.

Doris Spradlin, R.N., Instructor in Nursing, as of July 31, 1950.

Mary Lybrook Sonner, R.N., B.S., Assistant Professor of Nursing, as of July 15, 1950

Betty Jean Jones, R.N., B.S., Assistant Professor of Nursing, as of August 31, 1950

Helen W. Smith, R.N., Instructor in Nursing, as of June 30, 1950.

Dr. W. S. Weedon, Associate Professor of Philosophy, granted leave of absence for military duty, beginning August 14, 1950.

Dr. O. J. Hale, Professor of History, granted leave of absence for the session of 1950-51 for government duty in Germany.

Mr. Henry Hardy Perritt, Assistant Professor of Speech, granted leave of absence for military duty, beginning September 15, 1950.

Dr. Alfred P. Fernbach, Associate Professor of Foreign Affairs, granted leave of absence for the session of 1950-51 to accept a Fullbright Fellowship for study abroad.

Dr. Cary N. Moon, Jr., Instructor in Otolaryngology, granted leave of absence for military duty, beginning August 1, 1950.

Dr. Albert A. Fisk as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, effective September 1, 1950, at a salary of $4,900.00.

Mr. John Charles Collison as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for the session of 1950-51, at a session salary of $3,800. This is a replacement for Mr. Ehninger.

Dr. William A. Jenks as Visiting Assistant Professor of History, part-time, for the session 1950-51, at a salary of $1,500. Dr. Jenks is Assistant Professor at Washington and Lee University, and he will take over part of Dr. Hale's work during Dr. Hale's leave of absence.

Mr. William Gaillard Mikell as Instructor in Physics for the session of 1950-51 at a session salary of $3,000. This is a replacement for Mr. J. H. McQueen

Mr. Blake B. Woodson as Instructor in Foreign Affairs for the first semester of the session of 1950-51, at a salary of $1,000.00.

Mr. Shao Chuan Leng as Lecturer in the School of Foreign Affairs for the session of 1950-51. His salary will be paid by the Department of State.

Miss Jean Glass, R.N., as Instructor in Nursing, effective July 1, 1950. (Replacement for Miss Reaves.)

Miss Zula Mae Baber, R.N., B.S., Assistant Professor of Nursing, as of July 1, 1950. (Replacement for Miss Mears.)

Miss Doris M. Spradlin, R.N., as Instructor in Nursing, as of August 1, 1950. (Replacement for Miss Holbrook.)

Mrs. Isabel Grey Shankel, R.N., as Instructor in Nursing, as of August 1, 1950. (Replacement for Miss Spradlin.)

Miss Sarah Rosemary Lancaster, R.N., B.S., Assistant Professor of Nursing, as of July 15, 1950. (Replacement for Miss Sonner.)

Mrs. Pauline Hunt King, R.N., B.S., Assistant Professor of Nursing, as of September 1, 1950. (Replacement for Miss Betty Jean Jones.)

Mrs. Ethelda S. Martin, R.N., B.S., Instructor in Nursing, as of July 1, 1950. (Replacement for Miss Helen W. Smith.)

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules 146, 147, 148 and 150, aggregating $9,329.37, recommended by them for cancellation.

The President was authorized to make needed repairs to this building to make it livable.

A letter addressed to the Board by Messrs. Wyllie and Berkeley of the Alderman Library concerning the assignment of the $5,298.36 received from the estate of the late Mrs. Alexander W. Weddell was read by the Rector. A part of the letter, which was filed with the Secretary, is quoted below.

"It is hereby respectfully requested that the bequest of $5,298.36 from the estate of the late Virginia Chase Weddell (Mrs. Alexander Wilbourne Weddell) be assigned to the Tracy W. McGregor Library . . .

"If the bequest of Mrs. Weddell is allocated to the McGregor Library, it is proposed that the gift be used as follows: (1) for the purchase of the Virginia Company - Sir Roger Aston manuscript (a description of which is attached to this petition), (2) for the issuing of a publication honoring the memory of Mr. and Mrs. Weddell, and (3) for the purchase of other notable books and manuscripts pertaining to Virginia history."

The Board approved the use of the funds from this bequest as requested.

President Darden stated that he believed it would be well to use a molded brick for the Women's Dormitory. Whereupon, the President was authorized to select the appropriate brick for this building.

The President stated that in view of the location of the Power Plant behind the Hospital, he did not think it advisable to spend the additional money to purchase molded brick for this structure, and he requested authority to use the wire-cut brick. This request was unanimously approved.

The President presented to the Board a contract for the University of Virginia Hospital covering services to Blue Cross patients for two years beginning January 1, 1950. After discussion, the following resolution was adopted.

BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be authorized to sign an agreement with Virginia Hospital Service Association effective January 1950, with the following statement appended.

During the fiscal year 1949-50 the University Hospital lost more than $19,000 on the Blue Cross contract. This Board does not feel that the University should countenance a loss of this magnitude; and should such losses continue, the Board feels that the University will have to withdraw from the Blue Cross plan.

The following resolution, prepared at the request of the Board by the Committee on Resolutions, of which Mr. Garnett is Chairman, was unanimously adopted.

In recording the death of Edmund Schureman Campbell, Professor of Art and Architecture, the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia desire to put on record their appreciation of Mr. Campbell's services to the University, both in connection with the school of art and architecture and as curator of the museum of fine arts, and also in connection with his assistance and advice in the construction of new buildings and in the renovation and restoration of the old buildings.

After graduation at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology he became a student at the Ecole des Beaux Arts, Paris. He joined the faculty of Carnegie Institute of Technology at Pittsburgh and for ten years was in charge of the Department of Architecture in the Armour Institute of Technology in Chicago; and then became dean of Beaux Arts Institute of Design in New York City. He joined the faculty of the University of Virginia in 1927 and has been in charge of the School of Architecture and professor of Art and Architecture, and curator of the museum of fine arts at this institution since 1927. He was formerly a member of the Fine Arts Commission and State Examining Board for Architects of Virginia and has been a member of the Williamsburg Advisory Board of Architects, and a member of the Water Color Society of Virginia and of the Society of Architects, Aztec Society, and has served his State and University well.

The following resolution, prepared at the request of the Board by the Committee on Resolutions, of which Mr. Garnett is Chairman, was unanimously adopted.

On the occasion of the retirement of Harry Clemons as librarian, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia desire to put on record their appreciation of his services to the University and to the State.

After graduating at Wesleyan University, he served as Scribner fellow at Princeton University and as Jacobus fellow of Princeton at Oxford University, England, and he also studied at the School of Library Service at Columbia University. He began his library career as assistant in the library at Wesleyan University. He also served as instructor in English at Princeton and as reference librarian in the same institution; and as Professor of English in the University of Nanking, China, where he served as librarian thirteen years. He became librarian at the University of Virginia in 1927 and all who have used that library can attest his efficiency, his courtesy and his kindness.

His public writings include "An Essay Towards a Bibliography of the Published Writings and addresses of Woodrow Wilson", "The A.L.A. in Siberia"; "A Survey of Research Materials in Virginia Libraries", and an edition of Lyly's "Euphues, the Anatomy of Wit, Euphues and his England."

Mr. Clemons retires with the good wishes of the faculty, students and the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Upon recommendation of Dr. Combs, the following resignation, promotion, and elections were approved.

RESOLVED that the resignation of Dr. Robert W. Pyle, Associate Professor of Biology since 1944, be and it is hereby accepted, with regret.

Dr. Herbert Lee Cover, Instructor in Chemistry, promoted to Assistant Professor with an increase in salary from $2,880 to $3,420 for the academic year.

Mr. Charles W. Cox elected Acting Instructor in Radio and Speech for the session of 1950-51 at a salary of $2,880. Mr. Cox will take over the work of Mrs. Sollenberger while she is on leave of absence.

Dr. Marion A. Green elected Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish for the session 1950-51 at a salary of $3,420. This is a replacement for Dr. James F. Mormile, resigned.

Dr. Pauline G. King elected Acting Assistant Professor of Art for the session 1950-51 at a salary of $3,420. Dr. King replaces Dr. Matila Ghyka who has resigned.

Dr. Caroline J. Pace elected Acting Assistant Professor of English for the session 1950-51 at a salary of $3,420. She will take over Dr. Vogelback's work while he is on leave of absence.

Miss Edna Jo Whisenant elected Assistant Instructor in Biology for the session 1950-51 at a salary of $2,500. She will fill the vacancy created by the resignation of Dr. Robert W. Pyle.

A report on the operation of the E. Lee Trinkle Library for the year 1949-50, prepared by Carrol H. Quenzel, Librarian, was presented. Copies were distributed to members of the Board, and a copy was filed with the Secretary.

The budget for the year 1950-51 was approved, subject to the ability of the Board to secure permission of the State budget authorities to increase President Combs' salary to $10,000 per year. The following resolution was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED that Mr. Gay be requested to confer with the State budget authorities concerning the possibility of an increase in the salary of the President of Mary Washington College to $10,000 per year.

Dr. Combs stated to the Board that an additional right of way across the "Brompton" property was needed by the Virginia Electric and Power Company for construction of a new transmission line. The following conditions for construction of the right of way were specified by Stone and Webster Engineering Corporation as agent for the Power Company:

This is to confirm our verbal offer of $4,500.00 for the additional 75 foot width of right of way adjacent and parallel on the West side of our present 100 foot right of way on the University of Virginia property in Spotsylvania County, Virginia.

"We agree to place our new structures opposite the existing structures on this line and will not place any structures in the fairways on the golf course. The existing single pole 13,200 volt line on this right of way will remain in its present location."

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to sign an agreement in the amount of forty-five hundred dollars ($4,500.00) with the Virginia Electric and Power Company increasing the existing easement across the "Brompton" property by an additional seventy-five (75) feet, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in their communications dated September 5, 1950 and September 6, 1950.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.