Board of Visitors minutes (1951) September 14, 1951
===================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

September 14, 1951

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

6 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

GIFTS AND GRANTS RESIGNATIONS CANCELLATION OF APPOINTMENT LEAVES OF ABSENCE PROMOTIONS ELECTIONS APPOINTMENT UNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS REQUEST OF MINISTERIAL ASSOCIATION BAYLY-TIFFANY SCHOLARSHIP MATTER NORFOLK FOUR-YEAR COLLEGE ESTATE OF HUGH E. VINCENT BIENNIAL BUDGET REQUESTS 1952-54 APPOINTMENT OF DR. LAWSON ESTATE OF WILLIAM J. HUMPHREYS APPOINTMENT OF PROFESSOR BARR PROGRAM FOR HISTORY 17-18 RICHEY MATTER MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS ELECTIONS REPORT OF MARY WASHINGTON COMMITTEE Student Accident Insurance Biennial Budget 1952-54 Degree Program in Medical Technology Degree Program in Physical Therapy Admission of Male Student Admission of Negro Students DISTRIBUTION OF STUDENT FEES CIVILIAN DEFENSE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the Trigon Engineering Society, for the purchase of books for the Engineering Library

$ 100.00

From the John and Mary R. Markle Foundation, for fellowships during the year 1951-52 of $6,000 each for Dr. Preston B. Lowrance and Dr. Charles G. Craddock, Scholars in Medical Science

12,000.00

From the Doherty Foundation, for support of the Woodrow Wilson School of Foreign Affairs, and to endow graduate fellowships in foreign affairs

75,000.00

From the Robert Earll McConnell Foundation, to endow an annual award to a member of the law faculty

10,000.00

From the Class of 1951, for improvement of The Dell as a picnic area.

1,000.00

From Mr. James B. Bonham, to be added to the fund for the Medical Library established in memory of Dr. Eugene E. Neff

1,000.00

From Mr. Bart Galbraith, for the purchase of radon by the Tumor Clinic

150.00

From the E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, for a postgraduate fellowship in chemistry for the session 1951-52

3,300.00

From the Charlottesville Rotary Club, in support of the Institute of Public Affairs

2,000.00

From the U. S. Rubber Company, for a fellowship in physics during the session 1951-52

1,500.00

From the American Medical Association, for research in physiology under Dr. Edward L. Corey

400.00

From Dr. F. H. McGovern, for purchase of books for the Medical Library

250.00

From the E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, for a postgraduate fellowship in physics during the session 1951-52

2,600.00

From the National Fund for Medical Education, Inc., for support of the Medical School

15,000.00

From Mr. John L. Pratt, to be used for the Pratt Trace Analysis Laboratory in Chemistry

20,000.00

From Merck and Company, for a fellowship in chemistry for the year 1951-52

1,800.00

From the Virginia-Carolina Chemical Corporation, for a fellowship in chemistry for the year 1951-52

2,000.00

From the W. K. McClure Foundation for the Study of World Affairs, for a fellowship in foreign affairs during the session 1951-52

600.00

From various sources, contributions to the Rucker Home Building Fund, as follows: The W. J. Rucker Women's Auxiliary$3,500Anonymous2,000Mrs. Philip B. Philipp1,0006,500.00

The W. J. Rucker Women's Auxiliary

$3,500

Anonymous

2,000

Mrs. Philip B. Philipp

1,000

6,500.00

The W. J. Rucker Women's Auxiliary

$3,500

Anonymous

2,000

Mrs. Philip B. Philipp

1,000

6,500.00

From various sources, for the Graduate School of Business: Mathieson Chemical Corporation$10,000Mr. H. Clay Hofheimer1,000Anonymous500Mr. Herbert Johnson100Lynchburg Foundry Company5,000Colonial Chevrolet Company, Norfolk5,000Solvay Process Division, Allied Chemical and Dye Corporation5,00026,600.00

Mathieson Chemical Corporation

$10,000

Mr. H. Clay Hofheimer

1,000

Anonymous

500

Mr. Herbert Johnson

100

Lynchburg Foundry Company

5,000

Colonial Chevrolet Company, Norfolk

5,000

Solvay Process Division, Allied Chemical and Dye Corporation

5,000

26,600.00

Mathieson Chemical Corporation

$10,000

Mr. H. Clay Hofheimer

1,000

Anonymous

500

Mr. Herbert Johnson

100

Lynchburg Foundry Company

5,000

Colonial Chevrolet Company, Norfolk

5,000

Solvay Process Division, Allied Chemical and Dye Corporation

5,000

26,600.00

From departments and agencies of the U. S. Government, for research, as follows:

U. S. Public Health Service, for medical research under Dr. Byrd S. Leavell

3,037.00

Veterans Administration, for medical research under Dr. Alfred Chanutin

9,350.00

Department of the Navy, Bureau of Ordnance, for research under Dr. J. W. Beams

62,000.00

Department of the Army, Office of the Surgeon General, for medical research under Dr. Alto E. Feller

$ 5,920.00

Department of State, to carry out a program of study, training and observation in the field of law for ten German law students during a period ending March 31, 1952

14,615.00

U. S. Public Health Service, for research on cancer under Dr. Alfred Chanutin

11,556.00

Department of the Navy, for research in astronomy under Dr. H. L. Alden

1,870.00

Department of the Navy, for research in chemistry under Dr. A. T. Gwathmey

24,000.00

The W. J. Rucker Women's Auxiliary

$3,500

Anonymous

2,000

Mrs. Philip B. Philipp

1,000

6,500.00

Mathieson Chemical Corporation

$10,000

Mr. H. Clay Hofheimer

1,000

Anonymous

500

Mr. Herbert Johnson

100

Lynchburg Foundry Company

5,000

Colonial Chevrolet Company, Norfolk

5,000

Solvay Process Division, Allied Chemical and Dye Corporation

5,000

26,600.00

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College, Visitors Anderson, Barksdale, Carrington, Emmett, Garnett, Gay, Gravatt, Howard, Mears, Smith, Talbott, Wailes and Willis.

The minutes of the meeting of July 13, 1951, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President announced receipt of the following gifts and grants.

Upon recommendation of the President, the following resignations were accepted and the following cancellation of appointment, leaves of absence, promotion, elections and appointment were approved.

The following resolutions were adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. H. Rowland Pearsall, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, be and it is hereby accepted as of September 15, 1951. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Lee Goodrich Sewall, Lecturer in Neurology and Psychiatry, be and it is hereby accepted as of September 1, 1951. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Joseph W. Eversole, Assistant Professor of Pathology, be and it is hereby accepted as of September 1, 1951. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Mr. Frank W. Wheeler, Professor of Civil Engineering, be and it is hereby accepted as of August 20, 1951. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

The University has been advised that because of a change in orders from the Air Force, Captain Robert Kenneth Farst will not be assigned to the University of Virginia. The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the appointment of Captain Robert Kenneth Farst as Assistant Professor of Air Science and Tactics, made at the meeting of the Board of Visitors July 13, 1951, be and it is hereby canceled.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Joseph Lee Vaughan, Professor of English in the Department of Engineering, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay for the session of 1951-52 in order to act as President of the Institute of Textile Technology.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Miss Lois M. Austin, Assistant Professor of Nursing Education, be and she is hereby granted leave of absence without pay for the session of 1951-52 in order to take graduate work at the University of Chicago toward the Ph.D. degree.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. John A. Rorer, Associate Professor of Education, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay for the session of 1951-52 in order to serve as visiting professor at the University of London.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made, effective at the beginning of the session of 1951-52.

Mr. Charles William Smith, Assistant Professor of Art, to Associate Professor

Dr. Richard Cecil Garlick, Jr., Assistant Professor of Romance Languages, to Associate Professor.

Dr. Julio Suarez Galban, Assistant Professor of Spanish, to Associate Professor.

Dr. Edwin Morris Betts, Associate Professor of Biology, to Professor.

Dr. B. F. D. Runk, Assistant Professor of Biology, to Associate Professor.

Dr. John Kerry King, Instructor in Foreign Affairs, to Assistant Professor.

Dr. Daniel Silas Norton, Assistant Professor of English, to Associate Professor

Mr. Neill Herbert Alford, Jr., Assistant Professor of Law, to Associate Professor.

Dr. Arthur Merritt Jarman, Associate Professor of Education, to Professor.

Mr. Lawrence T. Ludwig, Associate Professor of Physical Education, to Professor.

Mr. Edward Ratliff Slaughter, Assistant Professor of Physical Education, to Associate Professor

Mr. Edwin C. McClintock, Associate Professor of English in the Department of Engineering, to Acting Professor for the session of 1951-52, at a session salary of $6,000.

Dr. Charles H. Lupton, Instructor in Pathology, to Assistant Professor, effective September 1, 1951, at a session salary of $4,000.

Dr. Walter Harding as Assistant Professor of English at a session salary of $4,050, effective in September, 1951.

Mr. Arthur C. Ziemer as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, beginning July 1, 1951, at a salary of $4,400 per year to be paid by the State Department of Education. He will have office space in the Woodrow Wilson Rehabilitation Center at Fishersville, Virginia, and will carry on a research project in cooperation with the Department of Education.

Mrs. Evelyn C. Bacon as Acting Assistant Professor of Nursing Education, half-time, for the session of 1951-52, at a salary of $2,000.

Dr. Donald Hugh Ferguson as Instructor in Internal Medicine as of July 1, 1951, at a session salary of $3,000 from the University plus $1,200 a year from the income of the School of Internal Medicine.

Dr. William Andrew MacIlwaine as Lecturer in Medicine, effective September 1, 1951, at no salary from the University.

Dr. Charles L. Crockett, Jr., as Lecturer in Medicine, effective September 1, 1951, at no salary from the University.

Mr. William H. Wranek, Jr., as Instructor in Journalism in the Department of Education for the first semester of the session of 1951-52, to teach one course, at a salary of $325.

Mr. Paul L. Weis as Acting Assistant Professor of Geology for the session of 1951-52, at a session salary of $4,050.

Dr. Edward MacGregor Stack as Instructor in Romance Languages for the session of 195152, at a salary of $3,000 per session. This is a replacement for Mr. Emmet Anderson, who has resigned to accept a Fullbright Scholarship.

Dr. William Hoge Wood, Jr., as Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics, effective September 1, 1951, at no salary from the University

Dr. Armistead Page Booker as Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics, effective September 1, 1951, at no salary from the University. Dr. Booker has been a member of the full-time staff for two years, but resigned to enter private practice in Charlottesville

Mr. William Ewart Stokes, Jr., as Instructor in History for the session of 1951-52, at a session salary of $3,000.

Dr. William A. Jenks, of Washington and Lee University, as Visiting Assistant Professor of History, part-time, for the session 1951-52, to carry on some of Professor Hale's work while he is on leave from the University. Dr. Jenks will receive a salary of $1,500 plus travel allowance of $300

Dr. Donald Shotton as Lecturer in Medicine, effective in September, 1951, at no salary from the University.

Mr. Thomas G. Hereford, Jr., as Assistant Professor of English in the Department of Engineering, at a session salary of $4,400, effective at the beginning of the session of 1951-52.

Mr. Samuel L. Sharp as Lecturer in Foreign Affairs for the session of 1951-52, at a salary of $1,250

Mr. Joseph Willard Baker as Instructor in Chemistry for the session of 1951-52, at a salary of $3,000. This is a replacement for Dr. Paul Gross.

Mr. Brooke Peirce as Instructor in English for the session of 1951-52, at a session salary of $3,000.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Gus K. Tebell be and he is hereby appointed Director of the Department of Athletics as of September 14, 1951, to assume direction of intercollegiate athletics and certain work in physical education, at a salary of $7,500 per annum

The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules 230, 231 and 232, aggregating $14,918.24, recommended by them for cancellation

The Ministerial Association of Charlottesville and Albemarle County requested permission to place signs welcoming tourists to the city at certain locations on the Rucker property and the Copeley Hill property. Permission was granted by the Board for the erection of such signs in accordance with drawings submitted to the President.

This matter was deferred until the next meeting.

The President stated that he had received a letter concerning the establishment of a four-year college in Norfolk as a division of the University of Virginia. He is having the matter studied and will report to the Board at a later meeting.

The will of Hugh E. Vincent named Mr. Edmund E. Richardson, Jr., as co-executor of the estate. A $5,000 legacy to Mr. Richardson was added later, but no clause was included reciting that the $5,000 legacy was to be in addition to Mr. Richardson's commission as executor. Mr. Vincent's widow and attorneys feel that this omission was an oversight. The other residuary legatees, Tulane University and Trinity Church, have approved payment of the $5,000 legacy plus commission to Mr. Richardson.

Mr. Darden recommended that similar action be taken by this Board. Whereupon it was so resolved.

Budget requests for the biennium 1952-54, which had been reviewed and approved by the Finance Committee on September 13, were submitted to the Board. The operating budget for the biennium calls for expenditure of $11,963,526 for maintenance and operation of the University and for $1,765,000 for capital outlays. Requests for the Hospital Division totaled $5,733,808 for maintenance and operation for the biennium and $2,000,000 for capital outlays. These requests were approved by the Board.

The Board approved an annual salary of $2,500 to Dr. George M. Lawson for research work in Medicine, effective at the start of the session 1951-52.

Mr. Perkins, Attorney for the University, recommended payment of attorneys' fees of $3,002.38 to the Huntington, West Virginia, firm of Fitzpatrick, Strickling, Marshall and Huddleston for services in connection with settlement of the estate of William J. Humphreys. The Board approved payment of the fees as recommended by Mr. Perkins, to be charged against the account for the Estate of William J. Humphreys, deceased

Mr. Talbott read a letter from Professor Wright of the School of Economics stating that Professor Stringfellow Barr, recently appointed to the Political Science faculty, was listed as a member of several communist front organizations. Mr. Wright inquired if the Board had investigated Mr. Barr's status at the time of his appointment

Mr. Gay suggested that inquiry be made of Mr. Wright as to whether he wished to bring charges before the Board that Professor Barr is a communist. A copy of Professor Wright's letter to the Board of June, 1951, was read, in which Professor Wright states: "Dr. Barr is not in my opinion, consciously or in intent a communist." However, he also states: ". . . Dr. Barr has been described both in books and on the radio as having been a member of at least two communist front organizations. Certainly, it would seem, these charges deserve at least some investigation."

Whereupon a resolution was adopted requesting the Rector to write Mr. Wright and call attention to Mr. Wright's letter to the Board of June, 1951, and inquire of Professor Wright if he wished to bring charges before the Board that Mr. Barr is a communist.

Mr. Black read the following letter from Professor Wright.

I was informed this morning by Mr. Gooch that he understood that Dr. Snavely had said that the question of approval or nonapproval of Mr. Barr's course had been discussed in our faculty and that we had voted to approve.

I wish to say that this is entirely untrue. We have had no meetings on the question of approval or nonapproval and, as Mr. Barr has not had the courtesy to submit to us his reading list, we are not in a position to decide one way or the other.

I am very sorry to have to raise the issue which I sincerely hoped would have been avoided, but I am obliged to point out that as things stand now there is no authority for the teaching of History 16 and 17 unless the Board of Visitors is willing to override the faculty and set up the course on its own authority.

May I say how deeply I regret this incident which could have been so easily avoided.

The President stated that he had replied to Mr. Wright's letter, and read his reply.

After discussion it developed as the sense of the Board that faculty approval of the proposed course of instruction to be given under Mr. Barr's direction should be given according to established faculty procedure, and Mr. Darden was requested to determine whether this had been done and to correct the situation if the customary faculty procedure has not been followed.

President Darden stated that he came to the conclusion, prior to the appointment of Mr. Gange, that because of the limited funds available in the Woodrow Wilson School of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Richey should not be promoted to a position which would give him academic tenure. He stated that he had waited until Mr. Gange had been here a year before any action was taken concerning the faculty of the Woodrow Wilson School.

After discussion of the matter the following resolution was adopted.

The matters arising upon Mr. Richey's petition filed with Members of the Board in respect to which the Board has held four hearings at which Professors Richey, Gange, Fernbach and Micaud, and certain students, have been heard and their views fully considered, it was upon motion, duly made and seconded

RESOLVED, that the petition of Mr. Richey that he be elevated to a full professorship and that Mr. Gange be dismissed from the faculty of the Woodrow Wilson School of Foreign Affairs be denied; that the evidence adduced in support of the petition does not warrant the action demanded, that the Board finds no evidence justifying the conclusions stated by Mr. Richey concerning the professional qualifications and fitness of his associates on the faculty, and that the Board appoint a sub-committee consisting of three members of the Board to record its reasons for this action.

Dr. M. L. Combs and Mr. E. E. Woodward, Bursar, were present for discussion of the following matters.

The following elections were approved.

Miss Guenndolyn A. Beeler as Acting Professor of Home Economics at a salary of $5,200 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 17, 1951. This appointment is to fill the vacancy created by the retirement of Dr. Alice Edwards.

Miss Sallie B. Harrison as Acting Associate Professor of Home Economics at a salary of $4,200 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 17, 1951.

The report of the Mary Washington Committee was presented by the Chairman, Mrs. Wailes, with action by the Board as noted below.

September 14, 1951

The Mary Washington Committee met at Mary Washington College on August 30th, 1951 with all members present. Meeting with the group were President Combs and Mr. Woodward, college Treasurer.

At its July meeting the Board referred the matter of group accident insurance for Mary Washington students to the Mary Washington Committee with power to act. Since the Student Accident Medical Reimbursement Plan of the Indemnity Insurance Company of America had operated successfully for Mary Washington students last year, and since time for investigating thoroughly possible alternatives was limited, the committee decided to continue the above plan with James A. Scott and Son, Inc., for the coming year.

However, the committee asked for deletion of postscript in the proposed letter to parents of students: "P.S. The above-mentioned plan is the only plan which has received the approval of the Board of Visitors of Mary Washington College for the year 1951-52."

Approval of this plan does not bar any other company from securing such business. The committee would like to study the whole matter of group accident insurance for Mary Washington students during the spring of 1952.

The committee considered the biennial budget of the college, and while several questions were raised concerned specific items, such as proposed faculty salaries, the committee recommends its approval by the Board. The requests for capital outlay - for a science building and for a dormitory to relieve congestion have been approved previously by the Board, and conditional appropriations were made for both. The need for them is still acute

A petition addressed to Governor Battle and signed by about sixty members of the faculty was presented to the committee by President Combs. The petition is a request for "a cost of living salary increase commensurate with that which was recently allotted to certain other State employees." The petition has been turned over to the Rector.

(This budget was approved by the Board, with the exception of Dr. Combs' salary, which was left unchanged. A salary increase was recommended by the Board for the Mary Washington faculty as it was for the University of Virginia faculty.)

The Board at its meeting on July 13, 1951, approved a cooperative program for the training of medical technologists by Mary Washington College and the University of Virginia leading to the B.S. degree to the awarded by Mary Washington College

The Committee offers an amendment to the motion, viz., that on completion of the required courses and laboratory work the degree of Bachelor of Science in Medical Technology be awarded by Mary Washington College, and asks that the suggestion for the change be referred to the faculties concerned.

(The change suggested by the Committee was approved by the Board.)

The committee recommends for approval by the Board the cooperative program in physical therapy worked out between Mary Washington College and the Medical College of Virginia leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Physical Therapy to be awarded by Mary Washington College upon successful completion of the requirements.

(The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College, in cooperation with the Medical College of Virginia, be and is hereby authorized to offer courses leading to the degree of B.S. in Physical Therapy effective for the session 1951-52, in accordance with the program outline presented to the Board.)

The Committee considered a request from Mr. John F. Barrett, a druggist and resident of Fredericksburg for the past ten years, for permission to pursue certain courses at Mary Washington College which would enable him to get a B.S. degree in Pharmacy at the University of Pittsburgh. These courses are prerequisite to his final year in pharmacy. He is a graduate of the University of Pittsburgh and is qualified for admission to Mary Washington. The support of a family of nine children has made it impossible for him to take the necessary work elsewhere.

The Committee recommends that applications of this kind be considered by the Board on their individual merits and that Mr. Barrett be permitted to take the necessary courses at Mary Washington. This recommendation has the approval of President Combs and Dean Alvey.

(The Board approved Mr. Barrett's enrollment at Mary Washington College, subject to investigation by Mr. Perkins of the legality of such admission

A report was received later in the day from Mr. Perkins, Attorney for the University, stating that under Virginia statute the Board did not have authority to admit Mr. Barrett to Mary Washington College.)

A questionnaire addressed to President Combs from the Virginia Teachers Association's Commission on Democracy in the Schools concerning admission of Negroes to Mary Washington College was referred to the Rector for disposition.

(Mr. Howard stated that the other women's colleges had received similar letters and had referred them to the Attorney-General. Accordingly, the matter was referred to the AttorneyGeneral.)

The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized to reduce the laundry fee from $18 to $12 for the session of nine months and to increase the student activity fee proportionately from $12 to $18 for the session of nine months, effective 1951-52.

President Darden reported that he had received a letter from Civilian Defense officials requesting that Mary Washington College be designated as an evacuation center for the city of Washington in case of atomic attack. The President stated that he had advised the officials that the decision rested with the Governor, who would have to fit the request in with the needs of the State.

On motion, the meeting was then adjourned.

I was informed this morning by Mr. Gooch that he understood that Dr. Snavely had said that the question of approval or nonapproval of Mr. Barr's course had been discussed in our faculty and that we had voted to approve.

I wish to say that this is entirely untrue. We have had no meetings on the question of approval or nonapproval and, as Mr. Barr has not had the courtesy to submit to us his reading list, we are not in a position to decide one way or the other.

I am very sorry to have to raise the issue which I sincerely hoped would have been avoided, but I am obliged to point out that as things stand now there is no authority for the teaching of History 16 and 17 unless the Board of Visitors is willing to override the faculty and set up the course on its own authority.

May I say how deeply I regret this incident which could have been so easily avoided.

I was informed this morning by Mr. Gooch that he understood that Dr. Snavely had said that the question of approval or nonapproval of Mr. Barr's course had been discussed in our faculty and that we had voted to approve.

I wish to say that this is entirely untrue. We have had no meetings on the question of approval or nonapproval and, as Mr. Barr has not had the courtesy to submit to us his reading list, we are not in a position to decide one way or the other.

I am very sorry to have to raise the issue which I sincerely hoped would have been avoided, but I am obliged to point out that as things stand now there is no authority for the teaching of History 16 and 17 unless the Board of Visitors is willing to override the faculty and set up the course on its own authority.

May I say how deeply I regret this incident which could have been so easily avoided.