Board of Visitors minutes (1952) May 9, 1952
============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 9, 1952

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

5 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

RESIGNATIONS LEAVE OF ABSENCE ELECTIONS APPOINTMENT FEE FOR "THE CAVALIER DAILY" ENDOWMENT FUNDS ART SCHOOL STRINGFELLOW BARR HEARINGS ON RICHEY PETITION GARDEN CLUB OF VIRGINIA NATURAL RESOURCES BUILDING MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS RESIGNATIONS RETIREMENT LEAVE OF ABSENCE ENROLLMENT REPORT ON DISTRIBUTION OF ACADEMIC GRADES REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS NEW DORMITORIES ADMISSIONS POLICY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A

$10,000

or

10 units

of $1,000 each

B

$10,000

or

10 units

of $1,000 each

Total

$20,000

or

20 units

Then market value

$ 25,000

C's contribution

10,000

Divide by

30) 35,000

Unit

$ 1,166.66

A

10

units

B

10

units

C

8

units

Total

28

units

\- market value $35,000.

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of Mary Washington College, Fredericksburg, Virginia, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College, Visitors Carrington, Emmett, Gay, Howard, Mears, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, Wailes and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Barksdale, Coxe, Gravatt and Talbott.

The minutes of the meeting of April 11, 1952, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved

The following resignations, leave of absence, elections and appointment were approved by the Board.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Gardner L. Carter, Professor of Chemistry, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1951-52. The Board appreciates his long service to the University, and wishes to express its hope that his health may be restored.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Miss Lois Marintha Austin, Assistant Professor of Nursing Education, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1951-52. We wish for her the highest success in her new undertaking.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Miss Louise Oates, Professor of Nursing Education, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1951-52. The Board appreciates her long service to the University, and expresses the hope that her health may be restored.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Mr. William R. Winsbro, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1951-52. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Mr. Fred Blanton, Assistant Professor of Law, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1951-52. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Henry Hardy Perritt, Assistant Professor of Speech, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay for the session of 1952-53 to complete work for the Ph.D. degree at the University of Florida.

Dr. John Jeffery Auer elected Professor of Speech at a session salary of $7,000, effective at the beginning of the session of 1952-53

Dr. Arthur Ebbert, Jr., elected Instructor in Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1952, at an annual salary of $5,000, to be paid from departmental earnings

Lieutenant Walter R. Luoma appointed Associate Professor of Naval Science, effective in August, 1952, at no salary from the University. This is a replacement for Lt. Comdr. J. B. Burnett, who is being transferred.

The Board approved an increase in the charge for "The Cavalier Daily" from $4 per session to $5 per session, effective in September, 1952.

Mr. Gay, Chairman of the Finance Committee, presented a letter which he had addressed to the Bursar, proposing a procedure for handling endowment funds under the act of the Legislature of 1952 freeing from the State's budgetary control the principal and income of all donations to State educational institutions received after January 1, 1952. The text of the letter is as follows

I have delayed answering your letter of the 5th the contents of which I discussed with you and Messrs. Mears and Talbott after the last meeting of the Board, until I could obtain copies of Regulation F promulgated by the Federal Reserve System for the guidance of national banks administering "common trust" funds. I have now obtained a copy of the pamphlet containing this regulation and enclose it herewith.

You will find this subject treated as Section 17 page 12 et seq. and I believe you will find the pertinent provisions embodied in subparagraph (c)(4) at page 15, dealing with the periodic determination of the value of assets in such a fund.

I have also discussed this matter at some length with Mr. Burrell Gunn, Vice President and Trust Officer of the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, who is conversant with the provisions of Regulation F and the method of its application and operation. He gives me the following very simple illustration

Assume there are two original participants who put in $10,000 each

So long as the common fund continues in this status the income is divided by 20 units to determine the amount to be distributed to the owner of each unit. But assume that a year later, or on some quarterly period when a valuation is had, the investments in the common trust fund are at market worth $25,000. Each unit is therefore then worth $1,250, but there are still only 20 units.

At this point C contributes $10,000 to the common fund. If he were issued 10 units the interest of A and B, the original participants, would be diluted as follows:

To state it a little differently, C will immediately realize a profit of $166.66 upon each $1,000 contribution made by him and A and B, the old members, will suffer a proportionate reduction in their unit values.

To correct such an inequity, the provisions of Section (c)(4) of the Regulation contemplate quarterly valuations, or, more specifically, at the time any new funds are admitted, by dividing the number of units then outstanding into the then established market value, and in this manner determine the then value of each unit.

Using the above illustration, we had a $1,250 valuation for each of the original 20 units contributed by A and B - reflecting their value of the total fund value of $25,000 on the date of the valuation. When C contributes his $10,000 as of the valuation date, we have a fund of $35,000, and as a simple matter of arithmetic the $10,000 which he contributes would represent 8 units of valuation of $1,250 each. So that thereafter the respective contributors would own units and receive proportionate distributions of income as follows.

I take it from your letter that you can and will set up such a system of accounting, and it might be well to determine in advance that all new funds received after January 1, 1952, would be held and turned over quarterly to the Bank for investment in the common fund - you making, with the Bank's assistance, a valuation of the fund as of each quarterly date, and thereby determining the periodic value of each unit and the participating value on a unit basis of the new funds currently contributed.

From the December 25, 1951 statement of the Bank the aggregate market value of the Consolidated Fund was $6,444,134.27. If we employ $10,000 as a suitable unit value, there existed in the Fund at that time approximately 645 units of the value of $10,000 each, and all future contributions of funds in units of, say $10,000 each, would acquire a participating unit value on the basis of the aggregate market value of the fund at the time of their contribution in the manner heretofore outlined.

Our Committee has no doubt of the authority of the Board to merge all funds and treat them as a common trust fund, and to segregate income between (1) units represented in the value of the fund as of December 25, 1951, and (2) the units contributed to the common fund subsequent to that date, on a unit basis.

After discussion of the matter a resolution was adopted approving the plan set forth in the letter above.

President Darden stated that a controversy had arisen over the failure of the University to renew the contracts of two members of the art faculty. This action had been taken upon the recommendation of the chairman of the school and the Dean of the College.

One of the members of the art faculty had prepared a memorandum concerning the school which he had sent to Mr. Gay, which memorandum was distributed to the members of the Board.

President Darden stated that he had asked Dean Lewis to prepare a report for submission to the Board and had also asked Dean Lewis to appear in person and present his report. The President said he thought it was important for the Board to determine as a policy matter whether or not it was to pass upon the fitness of the chairman of each school. In the past this had been purely an administrative matter. He personally believed Mr. Smith, the chairman of the art school, to be a competent artist and a satisfactory chairman.

Mr. Gay stated that the question before the Board is whether or not Mr. Smith is a capable administrator. He said that artists tend to be temperamental and this factor certainly should be considered in evaluating the administrative work of the chairman.

President Darden inquired if the Board wished to select the chairman of each school. Mr. Howard stated that he does not believe the selection of the chairman is a function of the Board, that this is a responsibility of the President.

Mr. Gay stated that there is a sharp divergence of views as to the type of art training which should be given at the University: (1) the University may develop a professional art school as advocated by Messrs. Carter and Johnson, or (2) the University may develop art as a part of a liberal arts education

The Rector stated that he thought the Board was getting on dangerous ground - he questioned very seriously whether this matter should be considered by the Board. Mr. Howard stated, "I disqualify myself to pass on this matter."

Mr. Gay then read a resolution of the Board passed November 14, 1947, on the report of the special Committee of the faculty in respect to the School of Fine Arts, as follows.

"The following report was submitted by a special committee to study the advisability of establishing a School of Fine Arts, in accordance with a resolution adopted at a meeting of the Board on September 12, 1947, and was approved as submitted."

He then read from the report the recommendations.

Dean Lewis then joined the meeting. Mr. Gay read the Campbell report dated November 8, 1947, to Dean Lewis and asked that he comment on whether or not the recommendations were being carried out. Dean Lewis stated that the University was offering general courses in art open to students in the College and in the Department of Education, as well as a major in art for those students particularly interested in such a program. However, the enrollment in these courses had been disappointing. Mr. Carter had joined the staff in 1948 and for the session 1951-52 he had only one student in one class and two in another. Mr. Johnson for the first semester of the current session had two students enrolled in his class, and only one the second semester. In 1949-50 Mr. Johnson started the school year with seven students, but only two continued in the spring semester

Dean Lewis stated that he had discussed the matter with the chairman of the art school and with other members of the faculty and had come to the conclusion that both Mr. Johnson and Mr. Carter were good artists but were not good teachers. Dr. Lewis stated that it was his understanding that art at the University was to be part of a liberal arts education and not training for professional painters and sculptors. The University gives studio courses in drawing, painting, sculpture and graphic arts. All of these courses are open as electives in the College. In his general art class Mr. Smith has 33 students enrolled, and 8 in graphic arts

Mr. Gay asked Dean Lewis why the art school did not employ models. Dr. Lewis stated that Mr. Carter and Mr. Johnson had requested a female model and that Mr. Smith had discussed the matter with him and the President and they felt it would be inadvisable at this stage to employ such models

Dr. Lewis then read a statement he had prepared, part of which reads as follows:

"The formal courses now offered carry out the intent of the Board. More, however, needs to be done to attain the end of giving general enrichment to the cultural life of the University community. In order to do this two things are necessary.

First, there are needed as professors artists who not only know the techniques of their profession but who also have a sound academic background and a wide knowledge and critical appreciation of the place of art in western civilization. It is not enough to be merely a professional painter or sculptor

The teaching of the various courses can and should be improved. The opportunity to achieve this end is at hand by the selection of men to replace Messrs. Carter and Johnson.

Second, opportunity must be given the Division of Art to extend its influence to the student body. This can be done by seminars and discussions open to the public, by exhibitions and demonstrations by members of the staff, by exhibitions of student work, by talks by visiting artists, and by movies illustrating working methods employed by well-known artists. Such materials are all available either free or at a moderate rental

This program is not possible under present lack of suitable space and equipment. With the completion of the new Academic Building, space should be provided in Cocke Hall or elsewhere to furnish the adequate quarters without which a good program cannot succeed

The committees which have been studying the whole matter have aimed at carrying out the wishes of the Board to provide (a) elementary art courses to undergraduate students in the College for elective credit, and (b) advanced courses in art to art majors. Both objectives have been attained

In order to set up conditions under which work on art would develop, the committee recommended to the Faculty and the Faculty accepted the division of the McIntire School of Fine Arts (excluding Music, which has an independent status) into two divisions, each with its own chairman and its own program of studies. The Division of Architecture is currently under the chairmanship of Mr. Disque, and the Division of Art under Mr. Smith

The courses in Art are given as listed in the Catalogue with two modifications. Art 1-2. General Art, has been reorganized in such a way that the course is given not by Mr. Smith alone but by members of the staff. It is divided into three studio groups, one of painting, one of sculpture, and one of graphic arts including drawing. This course is intended for students without previous training and serves in addition as instruction to help the student select the field in which he wishes to concentrate. The other change is merely introductory to a new course on Architecture and Arts in the Far East for which there has been considerable demand.

The slowness of Art to develop a program more widely selected by students is due to two factors, first, the reorganization carrying out the wishes of the Board has been so recent that there has been not yet time to build up a good body of students taking these courses. The second handicap has been inadequate quarters, aggravated by the fact, as pointed out by Mr. Johnson, that at least one of the studios was so cold that classes frequently could not be held there at all. The chief trouble came with the studio of sculpture

It is my opinion that Mr. Smith should be continued in the chairmanship until he has a better opportunity to prove himself. It was remarked to him by a former member of the staff that he was beginning with two strikes against him, the strikes being Messrs. Carter and Johnson, both capable artists but lacking in the background which is absolutely necessary for good work at the college level. Mr. Smith realizes what fine possibilities there are and I believe that he is the man to get ahead with the program

Mr. Smith is a well-known artist in his own right in more than one field, he has had successful teaching experience elsewhere and knows thoroughly what can be done with art as a cultural college subject

The criticism raised by Mr. Johnson is, in my opinion, absolutely unwarranted. It is true that Mr. Smith, although he has worked in the modern fields, has a deep appreciation and a good knowledge of classic art. In my opinion, it would be a primary error to have anyone head the Division of Art who knows and values only the modern techniques and the modern approach. The students certainly should know the different brands of blzarre and tortured art about which there is so much stir in the Richmond papers. If the chairman of the department, however, should confine himself to the modern movements such as cubism, surrealism, abstractionism and all the rest and to regard as outdated and of no consequence the work of Michelangelo, Rembrandt, Raphael, Da Vincl and the great masters of the past, it would be simply silly. It would be like having the School of Music devoted to jungle music and the blues, ignoring Bach, Beethoven, Mozart and the great masters of music. Mr. Smith, while a modernist himself, has a deep appreciation of the classical tradition. This is as it should be

I have been very much pleased with the way Mr. Smith has taken hold. I have already mentioned some handicaps and would add to this the fact that he has taken over the directorship of the Press to the detriment of his major function. I think we ought to give him the opportunity to develop Art as a college subject with such space and facilities as the University can afford. I feel that he has already proved himself and I respect his judgment in moving to replace the gentlemen whose training he considers to be inadequate while admitting their technical skill.

I recommend that Mr. Smith be continued at least for the present in the chairmanship

The Board thanked Dr. Lewis for coming to Fredericksburg to appear before it. Dr. Lewis then left the meeting

Mr. Gay stated that he would prefer seeing the art school abolished rather than continued in its present state. President Darden stated that an excellent replacement had been found for Mr. Johnson, and unless there was objection, he would present this young man's name for election at the next meeting

Mr. Gay asked the President how Mr. Barr's work was progressing at the University. Mr. Darden stated that so far as he had been able to determine, his courses were excellent and that a number of students had commented facorably upon them. Mr. Gay stated that Mr. Barr's appointment had one more year to run and before considering a permanent appointment the matter should be reviewed by the Board.

The following resolution was adopted

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the record of the hearings on the petition of Homer Richey which hearings took place on May 11, June 7, July 12 and September 13, 1951, not be spread in full on the permanent Minute Book, but that the record of these hearings be made a part of the minutes by reference.

A resolution was adopted requesting the Rector to write the Garden Club of Virginia expressing the appreciation of the Board for the restoration of the West Lawn gardens. Another resolution was adopted requesting the President to write the chairman of the restoration committee expressing the hope that the Garden Club of Virginia would restore the East Lawn gardens

President Darden stated that the State Conservation Commission had a $300,000 appropriation to provide a building for several of its agencies located at Charlottesville, which building it was planned to construct adjacent to and connected with the State Geological Survey Building. The President presented a plan showing the area requested by the Conservation Commission for the location of this building, together with space for garages and an area for future expansion.

The President recommended that the area for the addition for which funds were now available be granted, and that he be given authority to work out plans for a substitute area for location of garages, but that the area requested for future expansion and for garages not be granted at this time Whereupon a resolution was adopted approving the President's recommendations.

Mrs. Mildred B. Sollenberger, instructor in speech and radio, resigned on account of poor health

Miss Jean Reid, instructor in home economics, resigned to be married

Dr. Hugo Iltis, professor of biology, is retiring at the age of seventy.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the request of Miss Josephine Hubbell, instructor in health and physical education, for a leave of absence for the session 1952-53 be and the same is hereby granted

President Combs reported that the total enrollment for the current session of full-time students is approximately 1,200. The enrollment for next session is quite encouraging. For in stance, at this time last year there was a total of 277 new students enrolled. For session 1952-53 the enrollment of new students to date is 546 - an increase of 269 or approximately one hundred per cent over the enrollment of new students at this time last year.

A mimeographed report on the distribution of academic grades for the first semester of 1951-52 was distributed to members of the Board

President Combs reported that the work on the Fine Arts Center and the Student Activities Building is progressing according to plan. The Fine Arts Center is expected to be completed during the summer and the Student Activities Building will be completed some time in December

President Combs stated that Governor Battle had authorized a $20,000 appropriation for preparation of preliminary drawings for a new women's dormitory, so that if the 1952 Legislature approved a request for funds for this building, construction could get under way without too great delay. These preliminary drawings had been submitted to the Art Commission, the members of which came to Mary Washington and reviewed the plans and the location of the building. At an earlier date the Art Commission had approved a master plan for Mary Washington with a dormitory located at this particular site. The Art Commission disapproved of: (1) the proposed location of this building, (2) the size of the building, both the fact that it was a four-story building and that too many girls would occupy it, and (3) the design and structure of the building.

President Combs pointed out that the architects had planned a four-story structure because the fourth story could be added at a cost for each girl housed of $2,200, whereas the cost for a three-story structure would amount to $3,000 per student

President Combs stated that the architects were working on a substitute design which would provide two buildings in place of the one which had originally been designed, but that it would cost an additional $125,000 to house the same number of girls.

The Board referred this matter to the Mary Washington Committee with the request that the Committee meet as soon as possible and prepare a written report setting forth both viewpoints concerning this matter.

President Combs stated that admission to the summer session had been denied two Negro teachers from Bowling Green, Virginia, on the grounds that comparable offerings were available at Virginia State College.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned

A

$10,000

or

10 units

of $1,000 each

B

$10,000

or

10 units

of $1,000 each

Total

$20,000

or

20 units

Then market value

$ 25,000

C's contribution

10,000

Divide by

30) 35,000

Unit

$ 1,166.66

A

10

units

B

10

units

C

8

units

Total

28

units

\- market value $35,000.

I have delayed answering your letter of the 5th the contents of which I discussed with you and Messrs. Mears and Talbott after the last meeting of the Board, until I could obtain copies of Regulation F promulgated by the Federal Reserve System for the guidance of national banks administering "common trust" funds. I have now obtained a copy of the pamphlet containing this regulation and enclose it herewith.

You will find this subject treated as Section 17 page 12 et seq. and I believe you will find the pertinent provisions embodied in subparagraph (c)(4) at page 15, dealing with the periodic determination of the value of assets in such a fund.

I have also discussed this matter at some length with Mr. Burrell Gunn, Vice President and Trust Officer of the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, who is conversant with the provisions of Regulation F and the method of its application and operation. He gives me the following very simple illustration

Assume there are two original participants who put in $10,000 each

So long as the common fund continues in this status the income is divided by 20 units to determine the amount to be distributed to the owner of each unit. But assume that a year later, or on some quarterly period when a valuation is had, the investments in the common trust fund are at market worth $25,000. Each unit is therefore then worth $1,250, but there are still only 20 units.

At this point C contributes $10,000 to the common fund. If he were issued 10 units the interest of A and B, the original participants, would be diluted as follows:

To state it a little differently, C will immediately realize a profit of $166.66 upon each $1,000 contribution made by him and A and B, the old members, will suffer a proportionate reduction in their unit values.

To correct such an inequity, the provisions of Section (c)(4) of the Regulation contemplate quarterly valuations, or, more specifically, at the time any new funds are admitted, by dividing the number of units then outstanding into the then established market value, and in this manner determine the then value of each unit.

Using the above illustration, we had a $1,250 valuation for each of the original 20 units contributed by A and B - reflecting their value of the total fund value of $25,000 on the date of the valuation. When C contributes his $10,000 as of the valuation date, we have a fund of $35,000, and as a simple matter of arithmetic the $10,000 which he contributes would represent 8 units of valuation of $1,250 each. So that thereafter the respective contributors would own units and receive proportionate distributions of income as follows.

I take it from your letter that you can and will set up such a system of accounting, and it might be well to determine in advance that all new funds received after January 1, 1952, would be held and turned over quarterly to the Bank for investment in the common fund - you making, with the Bank's assistance, a valuation of the fund as of each quarterly date, and thereby determining the periodic value of each unit and the participating value on a unit basis of the new funds currently contributed.

From the December 25, 1951 statement of the Bank the aggregate market value of the Consolidated Fund was $6,444,134.27. If we employ $10,000 as a suitable unit value, there existed in the Fund at that time approximately 645 units of the value of $10,000 each, and all future contributions of funds in units of, say $10,000 each, would acquire a participating unit value on the basis of the aggregate market value of the fund at the time of their contribution in the manner heretofore outlined.

Our Committee has no doubt of the authority of the Board to merge all funds and treat them as a common trust fund, and to segregate income between (1) units represented in the value of the fund as of December 25, 1951, and (2) the units contributed to the common fund subsequent to that date, on a unit basis.

"The formal courses now offered carry out the intent of the Board. More, however, needs to be done to attain the end of giving general enrichment to the cultural life of the University community. In order to do this two things are necessary.

First, there are needed as professors artists who not only know the techniques of their profession but who also have a sound academic background and a wide knowledge and critical appreciation of the place of art in western civilization. It is not enough to be merely a professional painter or sculptor

The teaching of the various courses can and should be improved. The opportunity to achieve this end is at hand by the selection of men to replace Messrs. Carter and Johnson.

Second, opportunity must be given the Division of Art to extend its influence to the student body. This can be done by seminars and discussions open to the public, by exhibitions and demonstrations by members of the staff, by exhibitions of student work, by talks by visiting artists, and by movies illustrating working methods employed by well-known artists. Such materials are all available either free or at a moderate rental

This program is not possible under present lack of suitable space and equipment. With the completion of the new Academic Building, space should be provided in Cocke Hall or elsewhere to furnish the adequate quarters without which a good program cannot succeed

The committees which have been studying the whole matter have aimed at carrying out the wishes of the Board to provide (a) elementary art courses to undergraduate students in the College for elective credit, and (b) advanced courses in art to art majors. Both objectives have been attained

In order to set up conditions under which work on art would develop, the committee recommended to the Faculty and the Faculty accepted the division of the McIntire School of Fine Arts (excluding Music, which has an independent status) into two divisions, each with its own chairman and its own program of studies. The Division of Architecture is currently under the chairmanship of Mr. Disque, and the Division of Art under Mr. Smith

The courses in Art are given as listed in the Catalogue with two modifications. Art 1-2. General Art, has been reorganized in such a way that the course is given not by Mr. Smith alone but by members of the staff. It is divided into three studio groups, one of painting, one of sculpture, and one of graphic arts including drawing. This course is intended for students without previous training and serves in addition as instruction to help the student select the field in which he wishes to concentrate. The other change is merely introductory to a new course on Architecture and Arts in the Far East for which there has been considerable demand.

The slowness of Art to develop a program more widely selected by students is due to two factors, first, the reorganization carrying out the wishes of the Board has been so recent that there has been not yet time to build up a good body of students taking these courses. The second handicap has been inadequate quarters, aggravated by the fact, as pointed out by Mr. Johnson, that at least one of the studios was so cold that classes frequently could not be held there at all. The chief trouble came with the studio of sculpture

It is my opinion that Mr. Smith should be continued in the chairmanship until he has a better opportunity to prove himself. It was remarked to him by a former member of the staff that he was beginning with two strikes against him, the strikes being Messrs. Carter and Johnson, both capable artists but lacking in the background which is absolutely necessary for good work at the college level. Mr. Smith realizes what fine possibilities there are and I believe that he is the man to get ahead with the program

Mr. Smith is a well-known artist in his own right in more than one field, he has had successful teaching experience elsewhere and knows thoroughly what can be done with art as a cultural college subject

The criticism raised by Mr. Johnson is, in my opinion, absolutely unwarranted. It is true that Mr. Smith, although he has worked in the modern fields, has a deep appreciation and a good knowledge of classic art. In my opinion, it would be a primary error to have anyone head the Division of Art who knows and values only the modern techniques and the modern approach. The students certainly should know the different brands of blzarre and tortured art about which there is so much stir in the Richmond papers. If the chairman of the department, however, should confine himself to the modern movements such as cubism, surrealism, abstractionism and all the rest and to regard as outdated and of no consequence the work of Michelangelo, Rembrandt, Raphael, Da Vincl and the great masters of the past, it would be simply silly. It would be like having the School of Music devoted to jungle music and the blues, ignoring Bach, Beethoven, Mozart and the great masters of music. Mr. Smith, while a modernist himself, has a deep appreciation of the classical tradition. This is as it should be

I have been very much pleased with the way Mr. Smith has taken hold. I have already mentioned some handicaps and would add to this the fact that he has taken over the directorship of the Press to the detriment of his major function. I think we ought to give him the opportunity to develop Art as a college subject with such space and facilities as the University can afford. I feel that he has already proved himself and I respect his judgment in moving to replace the gentlemen whose training he considers to be inadequate while admitting their technical skill.

I recommend that Mr. Smith be continued at least for the present in the chairmanship

A

$10,000

or

10 units

of $1,000 each

B

$10,000

or

10 units

of $1,000 each

Total

$20,000

or

20 units

Then market value

$ 25,000

C's contribution

10,000

Divide by

30) 35,000

Unit

$ 1,166.66

A

10

units

B

10

units

C

8

units

Total

28

units

\- market value $35,000.

I have delayed answering your letter of the 5th the contents of which I discussed with you and Messrs. Mears and Talbott after the last meeting of the Board, until I could obtain copies of Regulation F promulgated by the Federal Reserve System for the guidance of national banks administering "common trust" funds. I have now obtained a copy of the pamphlet containing this regulation and enclose it herewith.

You will find this subject treated as Section 17 page 12 et seq. and I believe you will find the pertinent provisions embodied in subparagraph (c)(4) at page 15, dealing with the periodic determination of the value of assets in such a fund.

I have also discussed this matter at some length with Mr. Burrell Gunn, Vice President and Trust Officer of the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, who is conversant with the provisions of Regulation F and the method of its application and operation. He gives me the following very simple illustration

Assume there are two original participants who put in $10,000 each

So long as the common fund continues in this status the income is divided by 20 units to determine the amount to be distributed to the owner of each unit. But assume that a year later, or on some quarterly period when a valuation is had, the investments in the common trust fund are at market worth $25,000. Each unit is therefore then worth $1,250, but there are still only 20 units.

At this point C contributes $10,000 to the common fund. If he were issued 10 units the interest of A and B, the original participants, would be diluted as follows:

To state it a little differently, C will immediately realize a profit of $166.66 upon each $1,000 contribution made by him and A and B, the old members, will suffer a proportionate reduction in their unit values.

To correct such an inequity, the provisions of Section (c)(4) of the Regulation contemplate quarterly valuations, or, more specifically, at the time any new funds are admitted, by dividing the number of units then outstanding into the then established market value, and in this manner determine the then value of each unit.

Using the above illustration, we had a $1,250 valuation for each of the original 20 units contributed by A and B - reflecting their value of the total fund value of $25,000 on the date of the valuation. When C contributes his $10,000 as of the valuation date, we have a fund of $35,000, and as a simple matter of arithmetic the $10,000 which he contributes would represent 8 units of valuation of $1,250 each. So that thereafter the respective contributors would own units and receive proportionate distributions of income as follows.

I take it from your letter that you can and will set up such a system of accounting, and it might be well to determine in advance that all new funds received after January 1, 1952, would be held and turned over quarterly to the Bank for investment in the common fund - you making, with the Bank's assistance, a valuation of the fund as of each quarterly date, and thereby determining the periodic value of each unit and the participating value on a unit basis of the new funds currently contributed.

From the December 25, 1951 statement of the Bank the aggregate market value of the Consolidated Fund was $6,444,134.27. If we employ $10,000 as a suitable unit value, there existed in the Fund at that time approximately 645 units of the value of $10,000 each, and all future contributions of funds in units of, say $10,000 each, would acquire a participating unit value on the basis of the aggregate market value of the fund at the time of their contribution in the manner heretofore outlined.

Our Committee has no doubt of the authority of the Board to merge all funds and treat them as a common trust fund, and to segregate income between (1) units represented in the value of the fund as of December 25, 1951, and (2) the units contributed to the common fund subsequent to that date, on a unit basis.

"The formal courses now offered carry out the intent of the Board. More, however, needs to be done to attain the end of giving general enrichment to the cultural life of the University community. In order to do this two things are necessary.

First, there are needed as professors artists who not only know the techniques of their profession but who also have a sound academic background and a wide knowledge and critical appreciation of the place of art in western civilization. It is not enough to be merely a professional painter or sculptor

The teaching of the various courses can and should be improved. The opportunity to achieve this end is at hand by the selection of men to replace Messrs. Carter and Johnson.

Second, opportunity must be given the Division of Art to extend its influence to the student body. This can be done by seminars and discussions open to the public, by exhibitions and demonstrations by members of the staff, by exhibitions of student work, by talks by visiting artists, and by movies illustrating working methods employed by well-known artists. Such materials are all available either free or at a moderate rental

This program is not possible under present lack of suitable space and equipment. With the completion of the new Academic Building, space should be provided in Cocke Hall or elsewhere to furnish the adequate quarters without which a good program cannot succeed

The committees which have been studying the whole matter have aimed at carrying out the wishes of the Board to provide (a) elementary art courses to undergraduate students in the College for elective credit, and (b) advanced courses in art to art majors. Both objectives have been attained

In order to set up conditions under which work on art would develop, the committee recommended to the Faculty and the Faculty accepted the division of the McIntire School of Fine Arts (excluding Music, which has an independent status) into two divisions, each with its own chairman and its own program of studies. The Division of Architecture is currently under the chairmanship of Mr. Disque, and the Division of Art under Mr. Smith

The courses in Art are given as listed in the Catalogue with two modifications. Art 1-2. General Art, has been reorganized in such a way that the course is given not by Mr. Smith alone but by members of the staff. It is divided into three studio groups, one of painting, one of sculpture, and one of graphic arts including drawing. This course is intended for students without previous training and serves in addition as instruction to help the student select the field in which he wishes to concentrate. The other change is merely introductory to a new course on Architecture and Arts in the Far East for which there has been considerable demand.

The slowness of Art to develop a program more widely selected by students is due to two factors, first, the reorganization carrying out the wishes of the Board has been so recent that there has been not yet time to build up a good body of students taking these courses. The second handicap has been inadequate quarters, aggravated by the fact, as pointed out by Mr. Johnson, that at least one of the studios was so cold that classes frequently could not be held there at all. The chief trouble came with the studio of sculpture

It is my opinion that Mr. Smith should be continued in the chairmanship until he has a better opportunity to prove himself. It was remarked to him by a former member of the staff that he was beginning with two strikes against him, the strikes being Messrs. Carter and Johnson, both capable artists but lacking in the background which is absolutely necessary for good work at the college level. Mr. Smith realizes what fine possibilities there are and I believe that he is the man to get ahead with the program

Mr. Smith is a well-known artist in his own right in more than one field, he has had successful teaching experience elsewhere and knows thoroughly what can be done with art as a cultural college subject

The criticism raised by Mr. Johnson is, in my opinion, absolutely unwarranted. It is true that Mr. Smith, although he has worked in the modern fields, has a deep appreciation and a good knowledge of classic art. In my opinion, it would be a primary error to have anyone head the Division of Art who knows and values only the modern techniques and the modern approach. The students certainly should know the different brands of blzarre and tortured art about which there is so much stir in the Richmond papers. If the chairman of the department, however, should confine himself to the modern movements such as cubism, surrealism, abstractionism and all the rest and to regard as outdated and of no consequence the work of Michelangelo, Rembrandt, Raphael, Da Vincl and the great masters of the past, it would be simply silly. It would be like having the School of Music devoted to jungle music and the blues, ignoring Bach, Beethoven, Mozart and the great masters of music. Mr. Smith, while a modernist himself, has a deep appreciation of the classical tradition. This is as it should be

I have been very much pleased with the way Mr. Smith has taken hold. I have already mentioned some handicaps and would add to this the fact that he has taken over the directorship of the Press to the detriment of his major function. I think we ought to give him the opportunity to develop Art as a college subject with such space and facilities as the University can afford. I feel that he has already proved himself and I respect his judgment in moving to replace the gentlemen whose training he considers to be inadequate while admitting their technical skill.

I recommend that Mr. Smith be continued at least for the present in the chairmanship