Board of Visitors minutes (1952) February 27, 1952
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

February 27, 1952

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

3 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

CASE OF WILLIAM V. JOHNSON ENDOWMENT FUND BILL BEFORE LEGISLATURE GARDEN CLUB TABLET THE GARDEN CLUB OF VIRGINIA TABLET FOR COLONNADE CLUB MEDICAL FACULTY SALARY PLAN UNIVERSITY BUDGET Physics Building Hospital
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On call of the Rector, a special meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 11.00 a.m. in the office of Mr. Thomas B. Gay, Electric Building, Richmond, Virginia. The following were present. The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia, Visitors Carrington, Emmett, Garnett, Gay, Gravatt, Howard, Mears, Smith and Willis. Absent: Visitors Anderson, Barksdale, Talbott and Wailes.

The Rector read a letter from Mr. Richard R. Fletcher, Director of Student Affairs at the University, citing the circumstances in the dismissal of Mr. Johnson as a student in the University. Whereupon a resolution was adopted denying the petition of Mr. Johnson that he be allowed to change the record to state that he withdrew voluntarily from the University.

The President stated that he had discussed with Mr. Gay a bill pending before the Legislature to free endowment funds in state-controlled colleges and universities from inclusion in the State budget. He stated that the bill had passed the House but had run into difficulties in the Senate, where an amendment had been introduced which would have completely emasculated the bill.

Mr. Darden stated that he had discussed the matter with the Governor, who raised the question of whether in the long run the University would be as well off as at present, since other institutions in the State had been pressing for a uniform salary scale for their faculties, and the State officials had defended the differential between the University and the other institutions by stating that University endowment was sufficient to make up the difference.

On Saturday, February 23, the Governor called Mr. Darden from a meeting of the Association of Virginia Colleges to discuss the bill. The Governor stated that he had just seen a delegation from Virginia Polytechnic Institute, which group had stated that it was indefensible for a salary differential to exist between V.P.I. and the University. Mr. Darden said that he had also talked to Mr. Bradford, Director of the Budget, who was opposed to the bill. The question to be decided by the Board was whether or not it should attempt to get the bill passed at this session of the Legislature. Mr. Darden stated that he believed enough support could be marshaled in the Senate to secure passage of the bill, and that the Governor had indicated he would sign it.

The President stated that the freeing of endowment funds from State control, plus the recognition by the State of the pre-eminence of the University in the field of higher education in Virginia, would make it possible to develop the University into an outstanding institution.

Mr. Gay stated that he had conferred with the Governor concerning this matter. He read to the Board a part of the "Report on Higher Education in Virginia" which set forth what the committee drafting the report believed should be the philosophy of the State towards endowment funds of its institutions of higher education. He stated that he believed many donors would give to the University if they were assured their gifts would not result in reduction of State support. Such funds should be used to strengthen the institution rather than as replacement for State appropriation.

Mr. Gay then referred to the Reorganization Act of 1927 which stipulates that all collections of fees, revenues, etc., with the exception of the endowment fund, be paid into the State Treasury. He stated that he had discussed this matter with Mr. Bradford who maintained that the reorganization bill did not mean that endowment income should be excluded from consideration in budgeting.

Mr. Gay stated that he had discussed with the Governor the matter of the salary scale for the Faculty at the University in the light of its differential over that of other state institutions and felt that the Governor was sympathetic to the view that in order to maintain its position of eminence in the field of higher education it was necessary to maintain that differential. Mr. Gay and Mr. Darden thought it was important, however, in considering what action the Board should now take, that the Governor be considered as sympathetically behind such a differential, or we might lose out in a fight before the Legislature. To sum up, Mr. Gay stated that the members of the Board must make up their minds whether we should take the political risk involved in pushing for passage of the bill at this time

Mr. Black stated that he feels in the long run we would lose if a fight developed, because V.P.I. is a powerful force in the State Legislature.

Mr. Gay stated that he was not at all reconciled to the view that V.P.I. could maintain its position before the Legislature for equalization in the pay of its faculty. He stated that he would be willing to try to get this bill through at the present session.

Mr. Black said that he believed this was a bad time to attempt to press for passage of the bill. He thinks we should wait until another Governor is elected. Mr. Gay stated that what disturbed him was that if we do not secure passage of the bill now, two years hence we will have a record of having failed to secure passage of the bill, and it will be even more difficult to secure passage at that time.

President Darden said that he did not believe the political climate was suitable to press for passage of this bill in the current session of the Legislature.

Whereupon Mr. Mears made a motion that we not press for action at this time. As there was no second, the motion died.

Mr. Gravatt stated that if V.P.I. and William and Mary organized against us in the Legislature he was sure the University would be defeated. Mr. Gay stated that the institutions of higher learning in the State were supporting this bill and he doesn't see how after its passage they could reverse their stand and use it as a basis for opposing the present salary differential.

Mr. Gay then moved that a resolution be adopted that it was the sense of the Board that this bill should be passed at this session of the Legislature and requesting the President to take such action as is appropriate to secure its passage. This motion died, as there was no second.

Mr. Garnett then moved that the matter be left to the discretion of the President. President Darden wanted the Board to understand that if the matter were left to him, he would leave the bill in committee. Whereupon a motion was passed to leave the matter to the discretion of the President.

Mr. Gay asked to be recorded as voting in opposition to this decision. However, he stated that if the President should change his stand and press for the passage of the bill, he, Mr. Gay, would vote yes.

The Rector stated that he had received letters from Mr. Talbott and Mr. Gay suggesting certain changes in the language of the inscription to be placed on a tablet marking the restoration of the gardens at the University. Mrs. Smith clarified some of the questions raised by Mr. Gay and after discussion the inscription with suggested changes was approved as follows.

Has Restored These Five West Lawn Gardens According to the General Plan of Thomas Jefferson As Engraved by Peter Maverick in 1822. The Recreated Garden Designs by Alden Hopkins, Landscape Architect

In accordance with the instructions of the Board at the last meeting, the President presented a draft of a proposed tablet to be placed on the Colonnade Club (Pavilion VII). This draft was prepared by Mr. Harry Clemons, Librarian Emeritus of the University, and was approved as submitted, as follows:

On 6 October 1817, in the presence of Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, James Monroe, and many another distinguished citizen, was laid the cornerstone of this pavilion, the first to be erected of the group that was later to give visible form to Jefferson's architectural plan for the University of Virginia.

After discussion it was decided to postpone the determination of a date for the unveiling of this marker

Dr. Emmett stated that the report of the committee of the clinical faculty of the Medical School concerning a new salary scale for the clinical staff had been unanimously approved by the entire clinical staff of the Hospital; that the Medical Committee of the Board of Visitors had considered this plan very carefully and recommended to the Board its adoption

There were inquiries by Board members concerning certain phases of the plan and after considerable discussion the plan was approved with the following amendments.

1\. That the language of the plan be revised to state clearly that all expenses of the several departments are to be covered before any distribution of excess earnings is made.

2\. That costs of equipment which cannot be paid out of general running expenses are to be paid out of the reserve funds

3\. That title to all equipment will rest in the University.

4\. That in the language of the plan where a chairman of a department and the dean are required to approve a program of expenditures, the Bursar be added.

5\. That out of the Research and Development Fund $1,500 a year be paid as a supplement to the salary of the dean.

6\. That within two years after adoption of the plan, a group clinic be established, the plan for such clinic to be submitted to the Board for approval prior to its institution.

7\. That the agreement be made retroactive to July 1, 1951.

The President stated that he had conferred with the Governor and had received authorization to proceed with advertising for bids for the Physics Building. Although the funds available are not adequate, there is a $450,000 conditional appropriation for the current biennium which the Governor has authority to use as a supplement if sufficient funds are available in the State Treasury.

The Hospital is operating at a deficit and has been doing so through both years of this biennium in spite of a large increase in rates which was made in April, 1951. Of course the Legislature will have to make up this deficit, but it makes it difficult to secure funds for the University proper when more and more money is being needed to keep the Hospital operating.

A special plea has been made for the $2,000,000 appropriation requested to replace the old non-fireproof wings of the Hospital. The Dean of the Medical School, the President of the Medical Alumni Association and the Director of the Hospital appeared with the President before the House Appropriations Committee to make a plea for these funds, but there are insufficient funds within the current revenues of the State to provide this $2,000,000. The President said that in conversation with some members of the Legislature he found it their feeling that after this biennium the Legislature would be able to provide for the capital outlay needs of State institutions, having met the needs of the public school construction program in the last two bienniums. The President said that he feels the best we can hope for from the segregation case now pending is equalization and that such equalization will require several hundred million dollars for public school construction. Hence he does not feel that the future looks any more promising than the present

The President said it was important that the record show that the Board of Visitors and the President have done everything they can to place before the Legislature the urgency of granting the request for $2,000,000 for Hospital construction, that the fire hazard is very great.

After discussion of the matter it was the sense of the Board that each member should do everything possible to call to the attention of the appropriate members of the Legislature the need of the University Hospital for this appropriation

On motion the meeting was then adjourned