Board of Visitors minutes (1954) March 12, 1954
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 12, 1954

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

7 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

MISS DUNN, MR. GRAY, AND MR. McWANE APPOINTED VISITORS RE-ELECTION OF RECTOR COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD ELECTION OF SECRETARY GIFTS ELECTIONS UNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS RESOLUTION IN MEMORY OF JOHN LLOYD NEWCOMB NAMING OF STUDENT UNION BUILDING FOR MR. NEWCOMB JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL'S SCHOOL DORMITORY REPORT OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE LETTERS OF APPRECIATION BLUE CROSS HOSPITAL INSURANCE SALE OF COPELEY HILL BUILDINGS MARINERS' MUSEUM CHANGE OF CHARTER McINTIRE TRUSTS LEASE OF LAND FOR FILTERING PLANT RUCKER HOUSE LEASE ATHLETIC MATTERS DEMAND BY PROFESSOR WRIGHT FUNDS FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION READJUSTMENT OF DR. COMBS' DUTIES MR. CHINN'S REQUEST FOR HEARINGS MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS ELECTIONS EASEMENT TO MR. W. C. SPRATT PROPOSED SCIENCE BUILDING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mr. and Mrs. William H. White, Jr., to be added to the Hospital Memorial Fund

$ 200.00

From the Student Aid Foundation, for athletic grants-in-aid

1,100.00

From the Foreign Policy Association, for the development of Community Education on World Affairs in the State of Virginia

5,800.00

From the American Trudeau Society, for continued medical research under Dr. Quentin N. Myrvik

6,269.00

From the American Cancer Society, for research in chemistry under Dr. Alfred Burger

5,886.00

From the S. E. Massengill Company, to be added to the Pediatrics Research Fund

1,500.00

1950

4.26

1951

4.77

1952

4.61

1953

4.87

1954

4.89

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Visitors Barksdale, Coxe, Dunn, Emmett, Gravatt, Gray, McWane, Mears, Talbott, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Howard, Mrs. Smith, and Mr. Smith

The minutes of the meeting of 12 February 1954, previously distributed, were approved

The Rector welcomed to the Board the three Visitors newly appointed by the Governor on 27 February 1954 for the four-year term ending 28 February 1958. Miss Belva Tune Dunn, of Richmond, Mr. Horace Alfred Gray, Jr., of Richmond, and Mr. Henry Edward McWane, of Lynchburg. Certified copies of the oaths of office, taken by Miss Dunn before the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Albemarle County, March 12th, by Mr. Gray before the Clerk of the Corporation Court of Richmond, March 8th, and by Mr. McWane before the Clerk of the Corporation Court of Lynchburg, March 5th, were handed to the Secretary and ordered to be filed.

The Rector called attention to the statutory requirement making necessary the election of a Rector at this meeting. Upon the nomination of Mr. Barron Foster Black for re-election, Mr. Barksdale assumed the chair, Mr. Black pointing out that he would be eligible to serve only two years of the forthcoming four-year term. Mr. Black also reminded the Board of the time-consuming nature of the Rector's work, and stated that he could not attend meetings of the Board's Committees and perform the duties of Rector at the same time.

Nominations were closed and Mr. Black was unanimously re-elected.

The Rector made the following appointment to committees

Finance Committee Mr. Mears, Chairman, Mr. Gray

Buildings and Grounds Committee Mr. McWane

Noting that a secretary must also be elected at this meeting, the Rector stated that the present Secretary, Mr. Berkeley, would be willing to continue for the present, but wished to invite the Board's attention to the fact that he had served in this post for only six months, that the Board might well wish to make a change during the four-year term, and that he himself would like to feel free to resign at any time when pressures in his professional work might conflict with adequate attention to the Board's work.

The Board thereupon resolved that Mr. Berkeley be elected for a four-year term.

The President reported receipt of the following gifts and grants.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Dr. Joe Elias Mitchell, as Instructor in Pediatrics, effective March 1, 1954, at a salary of $3,500 per year from State funds, $1,500 from the Pediatric Well-Child Fund and $1,500 from the National Fund for Medical Education.

Mr. Thomas Dale Featherston, as Lecturer in Architecture for the second semester of the session of 1953-54, at a salary of $500.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 425, 428, and 429, aggregating $12,852.56, recommended by them for cancellation

The Rector announced to the Board the death of John Lloyd Newcomb, and spoke briefly of Mr. Newcomb's half century of service to the University as alumnus, teacher, dean, assistant to the president, president, and since his retirement in 1947, as an advisor on new construction and planning. The following memorial resolution, drafted by the Rector, was adopted by unanimous vote of the Board

THAT WHEREAS, the University of Virginia has, in the passing of John Lloyd Newcomb on February 22, 1954, lost a man who lived and died in unselfish love and devotion to her interests;

AND WHEREAS, it now becomes appropriate to express, not only our grief, but also our deep appreciation of the significant contributions of John Lloyd Newcomb, the University's second President, to her advancement and welfare,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the members of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, in meeting assembled, that this Board records its deep appreciation of the ability and devotion with which John Lloyd Newcomb discharged the difficult and onerous tasks which are part and parcel of the burdens of the Presidency of this University,

Of his accomplishments in the erection of Clark Hall, Thornton Hall, the Museum of Fine Arts, and above all, the Alderman Library, so aptly described by Dr. Alderman as "the beating heart of the University", and the erection of which had long been one of his dreams,

Of his achievements in expanding and strengthening the faculty and the courses of instruction of this University,

Of his integrity and modesty, of his keen wit, of his loneliness after the loss of his beloved wife, relieved only by his comforting sense of humor and his unflagging interest in this University

He was a man whose whole existence was firmly attached to an ideal, and that ideal was the University of Virginia

We honor and respect him for his sincerity of purpose, and his indomitable determination to accomplish that purpose.

We herewith record our firm conviction that in the passing of John Lloyd Newcomb, the University of Virginia has sustained a very grave and irreparable loss.

It was ordered that a copy of the Resolution be engrossed and presented to Mr. Newcomb's sister, Mrs. Hunter Gates, of Richmond

President Darden stated that Mr. Newcomb had in the last several years devoted much time and thought to the planning of the new building to house student activities, for which it is hoped that sufficient funds for construction will soon be available, and he suggested the propriety of naming this structure for Mr. Newcomb

It was thereupon resolved by the Board that the student activities building, whenever erected, be named in honor of Mr. Newcomb

President Darden stated that increasing enrollment will probably make it necessary in future to withdraw for general use by students of the College the University dormitory which has previously been leased to the Army for use of the Judge Advocate General's School. It has been proposed that a dormitory to house one hundred students be erected to the south of Clark Hall especially for the Judge Advocate General's School, and leased to the Army for that purpose for five-year periods. Mr. Darden said that in the absence of objection from the Board he would proceed with preliminary planning for such a building, subject to future approval of financing arrangements by the Governor. In the discussion it developed that having the School attached to the School of Law has been highly satisfactory both to the University and to the Army, which is eager to continue the arrangement. In the event of the Army's withdrawal at the end of a five-year lease, the structure could be used for students of the Law School or other University schools and the remaining debt retired from room rentals

The Rector read to the Board the following Report of the Finance Committee.

There is submitted herewith a copy of a report and summary of the University of Virginia Consolidated Endowment Funds submitted by the State Planters Bank and Trust Company for the period January 25, 1953, to January 25, 1954. It will be noted that the fund had a book value as of January 25, 1954, of $6,165,242.31. The original book value of the general endowment fund as of the date the State Planters Bank and Trust Company took over the handling of our funds was $4,566,051.82, a gain of $1,599,190.49. Of course, a substantial part of this gain consists of additions to the funds, but also a large part is represented by increased values

There have been sales, redemptions and conversions of securities during the year in the amount of $613,671.76. Reinvestments during the same period amount to $574,678.50.

The gross adjusted income for the twelve-month period amounted to $298,110.03, which, when related to the average book value during 1953 (weighted average by months) represents a yield of 4.89%. This compares to the average yield of 4.87% for 1952 and 4.61% for 1951 The current yield on the investments which now constitute the fund is approximately 4.93% of the present book value, or 4.07% of the current market value.

It is interesting to note the gradual increase in yield on the book value as follows

The close approach to the figure of 5% is worth noting.

The agent turned over to the Comptroller of the University during the year an aggregate of $285,230.79, which represented net income after all deductions and expenses. Expenses to he University of having the agent handle the fund, together with the four subsidiary accounts, was approximately 20/100 of 1% of the average book value. This covers supervision and review of investments as well as the custody of securities and the collection of income

There is an interesting table showing the units of investment whose market values show a book loss of $5,000 or more, and those showing a book gain of $5,000 or more. The total losses under this schedule aggregated $53,553.89. The total gains aggregated $1,364,161.20, a net gain of $1,310,607.31.

Following discussion it was resolved that the Report be accepted and approved in conjunction with the accompanying Report and Summary of University of Virginia Consolidated Endowment Funds submitted by the State Planters Bank and Trust Company for the period from January 25, 1953, to January 25, 1954

The Rector read to the Board a letter from Mr. Vernon Eberwine, Rector of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and President of the Association of Governing Boards of Colleges and Universities, expressing gratification for the Board's decision on February 12th to join the Association.

President Darden presented a letter of thanks from Mr. James W. Lapsley, Superintendent of The Miller School for the war surplus boiler made available by loan for use by the School, reporting the great success of the boiler, put into use on January 6th, in assisting the School's expansion program.

The President inaugurated a discussion of the problems arising from the recent refusal of the State Corporation Commission to permit an increase in premium rates for Blue Cross insurance, and stated that he is investigating means of protecting the University from expanding liability if rising costs of the payment of policies are pro-rated, in accordance with the terms of the Blue Cross plan, among participating hospitals.

President Darden referred to the desirability of eliminating from time to time the more obsolete of the temporary emergency structures on Copeley Hill, erected from war surplus during the crowded sessions following World War II. He presented a proposal from the Comptroller for the sale of Buildings 29, 30, 31, 32, and 33, which are no longer urgently needed and are deteriorated to a point where maintenance is uneconomical.

It was resolved by the Board that the proper officers be authorized to accept bids for and to dispose of these five buildings

There was presented to the meeting a document which purported to be a copy of a proposed Certificate for Amendment to the Charter of The Mariners' Museum, together with a copy of the Charter of The Mariners' Museum and a letter from Mr. Roger Williams, President of The Mariners' Museum, requesting this Board's prior approval and consent to the amendments

Upon consideration whereof, after motion duly made and seconded, the following resolution was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia do accede to the request to approve of and consent to the charter amendments in the words and figures presented to the meeting, if and when the same be duly adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Mariners' Museum, namely

"(1) BE IT RESOLVED that Article 2 of the original Certificate of Incorporation of The Mariners' Museum be amended to read as follows

\`Article 2. - The name of the City wherein the principal office of the corporation in this State is to be located is Warwick.'

"(2) BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Article 8 of the Original Certificate of Incorporation be amended to read as follows

\`Article 8. - The corporation shall not be operated for profit and will not issue stock or lend money or its equivalent, or guarantee any debt, but will be operated for the purposes herein expressed and none other, and said corporation will not be merged or consolidated with any other institution or institutions of like character or otherwise. In the event any attempt shall be made to merge said corporation with any other institution or institutions, or otherwise, or to alter or change the character of said corporation, the property of said corporation, be of real, mixed or personal, and the title thereto shall immediately pass to and vest in the University of Virginia, provided, however, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this certificate contained, the trustees may by deed of gift or upon such consideration as they shall deem meet and proper, convey said park and lake, or so much of either thereof as to them shall seem advisable, to the City of Newport News, the Commonwealth of Virginia or the City of Warwick, or in the event necessity therefor exists in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, the Trustees may sell and convey the same, upon such consideration as they deem adequate and proper, to private persons or corporations, provided, however, that the net proceeds from any such sale shall be transferred to the Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Trustee, or to its successor in trust, to be by such Trustee invested, reinvested and disposed of according to the terms of a certain deed bearing date the 14th day of March, 1931 between Archer Milton Huntington, et ux, The First National Bank of Newport News, Virginia, Homer L. Ferguson, and Guaranty Trust Company of New York, and provided further that this privilege to convey said park and lake shall not extend to the museum, seventy-five (75) acres of land and/or land under water surrounding the same, the approached thereto or the houses, research laboratories, buildings, equipment or lands, with their approaches, directly appertaining to said museum or research laboratories.

\`The board of trustees shall, after the death of the said Archer M. Huntington, annually report their proceedings to the person who, for the time being, shall be Governor of Virginia

\`Any officer or trustee named in this certificate, or the successor of any such officer or trustee, may, with or without cause shown, be removed by the chairman of the board herein named. Upon the retirement of the chariman of the board herein named, any such officer or trustee may be removed by the board of trustees

\`All voting power shall be vested in the trustees, who, annually, shall elect a chairman of the board of trustees, a president, a secretary, a treasurer, a curator and such other officers as to them shall seem proper, but the treasurer and curator shall not be members of the board of trustees.' "

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a certified copy of this resolution be transmitted forthwith to the president of The Mariners' Museum

The President presented a letter from C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel of the University, relating to the matter of the two trusts established by Paul Goodloe McIntire with United States Trust Company, of New York, Trustee, dated December 5, 1923, under which, after the death of his daughter, Charlotte Virginia McIntire, the University is named as remainder beneficiary. This letter discussed a proposed compromise agreement between the parties in interest under said trusts, which, when executed, would end the litigation in connection with these trusts now pending in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, and recommended that the compromise agreement dated March ---, 1954, be ratified and approved by the Board with the exception of paragraph Sixth thereof, it being Mr. Minor's recommendation that paragraph Sixth, dealing with payments by the University from the income of said trusts, to Hilda Hall McIntire, widow of Paul Goodloe McIntire, during the remainder of her life, should she survive Charlotte Virginia McIntire, the life tenant, be eliminated from the agreement since under no construction of said trusts would Mrs. McIntire have any interest in the trusts after the death of Charlotte Virginia McIntire

After discussion and consideration of Mr. Minor's letter and the text of the proposed compromise agreement dated March ---, 1954, upon motion, duly seconded and carried, it was

RESOLVED, that the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia ratifies and approves the compromise agreement dated March ---, 1954, to be entered into by all of the parties in interest under the two trusts established by Paul Goodloe McIntire with United States Trust Company of New York, Trustee, dated December 5, 1923, with the exception of paragraph Sixth thereof

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the proper officers of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, be, and they hereby are, authorized and empowered, to execute in the name of and on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, an agreement, when presented, substantially in the form and substance as presented to this meeting, provided said agreement eliminates paragraph Sixth thereof as presented to this meeting.

And it is ordered that a copy of Mr. Minor's letter on the matter be filed with the minutes of this meeting

There was presented to the Board a form of lease of certain lands of the University to the City of Charlottesville for the purposes of the filter plant of said City

The attention of the Board was called to the fact that by agreement dated April 1, 1922, of record in the Clerk's Office of the Circuit Court of Albemarle County in D.B. 179, p. 385, the University leased to the City of Charlottesville for 99 years a tract of land on which is now located the City's filter plant, and that by a supplemental agreement dated November 11, 1927, of record in said Clerk's Office in D.B. 199, p. 83, certain changes were made in the terms and conditions of the original lease, that by contracts dated April 1, 1944, and August 23, 1949, of record in said Clerk's Office in D.B. 260, p. 193 and D.B. 285, p. 480, respectively, additional small tracts of land were leased to the City by the University so that the filter plant of said City might be enlarged.

The City of Charlottesville is now engaged in materially enlarging its filter plant for filtration of University and City water and desires to lease an additional rectangular piece of land owned by the University which adjoins the property subject to previous leases on the east or northeast, for the purpose of a site for the erection of a dam and reservoir for the impounding of overflow water from its filter beds.

After consideration and discussion, upon motion, duly seconded and carried, it was

Resolved, that Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President of the University, be and he is hereby authorized and instructed to execute a lease for the purposes above referred to, in the name of an on behalf of, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., Secretary, of this Board is instructed to affix the Corporate Seal and attest the same and C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel for the University, is instructed to see that said lease is properly executed on behalf of the City of Charlottesville, and, after such execution, is recorded in the Clerk's Office of the Circuit Court of Albemarle County,

And it is ordered that a copy of said lease be filed with the minutes of this meeting

President Darden initiated a brief discussion of the plans for the Rucker Home for Crippled Children on Route 250 west of the University, where is is hoped that a suitable pavilion can be erected in future from Mrs. Pratt's bequest for crippled children. Pending the maturing of these plans, application has been received from Mr. William R. Bondurant for the rental of the old residence on the property on a month-to-month basis.

The Board resolved that the Comptroller be authorized and directed to contract with Mr. Bondurant a lease of the house on a month-to-month basis, arranging to have the form of contract drawn by the University's Special Counsel in such manner as to protect the University from any liability that might arise from the deteriorated and possibly dangerous condition of the house

Mr. Talbott inquired whether action would be needed at this meeting regarding a letter from Mr. N. G. Wilson which had just been referred to the Athletic Committee. The Rector suggested that the letter be held for study and for possible consideration at a later meeting.

President Darden remarked that Board action to approve single specific acts of the University Scholarship Committee could complicate athletic policy. He added that some faculty members feel that the University Senate ought to have a larger voice in athletic policy, and that athletics would probably be discussed at a Senate meeting to be held this afternoon.

President Darden presented to the Board a letter from Judge Smith, who was absent on account of urgent official business in the House of Representatives, reporting a letter from Professor David McCord Wright, who is on leave during the present session on a Fulbright award to the United Kingdom. In regard to Professor Wright's desires, Judge Smith wrote in part that "his proposal is that either his present house be repaired or that he be given housing on the Lawn, and that he be advised whether the Board is willing to do either one of these things, as otherwise, he desires to seek other employment."

Members expressed the opinion that tenants of University houses should arrange for appropriate maintenance through the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds, and the Board resolved that Professor Wright be advised to follow this procedure.

The General Assembly is unlikely to make provision, the President reported, for the construction at this time of the additions to the University Hospital which are such a critical need. There is some hope, however, of funds being made available for proceeding with the plans for this expansion, and for an addition to the funds already available for construction of the student activities building

President Darden reported on his recent visits to Mary Washington College and his discussions with Dr. Combs, Dean Alvey, Mr. Woodward, the faculty, and groups of students. He expressed optimism that Dr. Combs would find great advantage in his own health and strength as well as in the interest and value of his work, once he accustomed himself to carrying a more limited burden. The temporary arrangements set up for the remainder of the present session, give Dean Alvey increased responsibilities over personnel and Mr. Woodward over business matters. In addition joint committees are being set up for the University and for Mary Washington College on (1) Appointments and Promotions, and (2) Quality of Instruction. At a faculty meeting which he and Dr. Combs had jointly addressed, some progress appeared to have been made in enlisting sympathy and interest in administrative planning for strengthening the College

In a two-hour discussion that Mr. Darden had held with groups of students, he had been impressed with their emphatic desire for tougher academic standards. The exceptionally high quality and number of students now seeking admission will make possible greater selectivity and higher standards. Higher fees and better faculty salaries will be necessary In view of experience at Charlottesville complete freedom of opinion in student publications appears desirable

The Rector, after commenting on President Darden's arduous labors at Richmond and on reports of the favorable effect on faculty morale of Mr. Darden's work in Fredericksburg, spoke briefly of the recent efforts of the Board to strengthen the administration of Mary Washington College. He also read to the Board the two letters on the subject received since the last meeting.

Mr. Black also read to the Board the text drafted by Dr. Combs for the letter he had agreed to write to persons who had written to the Board. Dr. Combs had been furnished with the names and addresses on the day following the last Board meeting, but the letters have not yet been sent. Dr. Combs had written on his own volition to the parents of one of the students interviewed and disciplined on November 19th, the Rector proposed that the same text be used for letters to the parents of the other three, but it is not yet known whether the letters have been sent

The Rector reported a request from Mr. Chinn, of Fredericksburg to appear before the Board today with a delegation from Fredericksburg to testify regarding Dr. Combs and the recent administration of the College. In replying, he had asked Mr. Chinn to defer his request in view of the heavy docket anticipated for today's meeting.

President Darden stated that he had recently conferred with the Governor on the situation at the College, and the Governor was satisfied not to reopen the matter. Both the Rector and the President had spoken to Mr. Jere Willis about Mr. Chinn's request. Mr. Willis, who believed that Dr. Combs would be opposed to further hearings, said he would discuss the matter with Mr. Chinn

Members of the Board expressed the opinion that the reopening of the issue, with attendant publicity, would be harmful to the College and damaging to Dr. Combs. It was also pointed out that the thoroughness of the inquiry carried out over the last three months make it incumbent on anyone wishing to appear before the Board to demonstrate in advance that he has something new to develop

The Board resolved that the request from Mr. Chinn, or others, for additional hearings, should be referred to the Executive Committee for decision, and that the Rector should request Mr. Chinn to state what facts he intends to prove. With this information the Rector should then submit the matter to the Executive Committee for a decision.

Following a discussion of administrative matters at the College since the last Board meeting on February 12th, the Board adopted the following resolutions.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mrs. John P. Harris, Jr., be and she is hereby elected Acting Dean of Women from February 17, 1954 through the remainder of the current session of 1953-54 on the basis of a salary of $5,000. per annum, the salary for the remainder of the session, or for any additional time she may serve beyond the close of the regular session, to be prorated.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mrs. Clyde Carter be and she is hereby elected Acting Instructor in Home Economics from February 17, 1954 through May 31, 1954, at a salary of $360. per month.

President Darden reminded the Board of the approval given by a Resolution adopted by the Board at the meeting of January 8th for President Combs to proceed with plans for an easement for right of way to Mr. W. C. Spratt, whose property separates two parts of the Brompton property, which in turn cuts off Mr. Spratt's property from access to the highway. Dr. Combs now wishes to execute the easement and to accept from Mr. Spratt a conveyance of an acre of land which will connect the now separated portion of Brompton.

The Board adopted the following resolutions

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that W. C. Spratt, of Fredericksburg, Virginia, be granted a sixty-foot right of way from a point on Virginia Highway Number 3 paralleling the American Telephone and Telegraph Company's easement, beginning ten feet to the west and approximately 820 feet to the south to an intersection of the Old Mill Road, which right of way shall be set forth in a deed describing the exact metes and bounds of this property, subject to approval by the University's Special Counsel before it shall be executed.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that acceptance be made of approximately one acre of land to be conveyed without consideration by W. C. Spratt, this tract to join together the two Brompton tracts now separated by Mr. Spratt's property by a deed setting forth the metes and bounds and subject to approval by the University's Special Counsel before it shall be executed.

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board hereby expresses its appreciation to Mr. Spratt for this gift.

President Darden spoke of his disappointment at the failure to obtain state funds for the erection of a new science building, which is badly needed at the College, and stated that he wished to explore other means of financing its construction, in the meantime, he has asked Dr. Combs to take steps toward obtaining from the City of Fredericksburg a tract of land which will make an ideal site for the proposed building

On motion the meeting was then adjourned