Board of Visitors minutes (1966) February 12, 1966
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

February 12, 1966

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 12 February 1966
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 10:00 a.m. in the Office of the Chancellor of Mary Washington College, at Fredericksburg, with the following present: Rector Charles R. Fenwick; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Camp, Cross, Faulconer, Hobbs, Johnson, Kendig, Kuykendall, Lantor, Lewis, Montague, Parrish, Rogers, and Walker.. Absent: Visitors Wilkerson and Williams. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson and Bursar Edgar E. Woodward were present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters.

The minutes of the called meeting of 8 January 1966, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Pietro Belluschi as Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professor of Architecture, for two months, effective 1 February 1966.Mr. Benjamin K. Bennett as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. John Bodner, Jr. as Lecturer in Law, for one semester, effective 1 February 1966, at a salary of .Mr. John Buckman as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 January 1966.Mr. Nicholas R. Castricone as Instructor in Education, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1966, at a salary of .Mr. Angel L. Cilveti as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert A. Cornett as Visiting Associate Professor of Philosophy, one-third time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1966, at a salary of .Dr. Milton H. Donaldson as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Richard A. Ferrell as Visiting Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1966.Mrs. Lyle R. Fisher as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 31 January 1966, at a salary of Mr. Daniel J. Freed as Lecturer in Law, for one semester, effective 1 February 1966, at a salary of .Mr. Alexander H. Frey as Visiting Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, for one semester, effective 1 February 1967, at a salary of .Mr. Eric D. Hirsch, Jr. as Professor of English, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. John W. Hollow as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of Mr. Irwin R. Konigsberg as Professor of Biology, effective 1 August 1966, at a session salary of plus for August 1966 for summer work.Dr. Thomas W. Lamb as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1966, at a salary of .Mr. Gordon E. Latta as Visiting Professor of Applied Mathematics in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. William A. Little as Professor of German, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. William G. MacIntyre as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 February 1966.Mr. Ralph C. Minehart as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. John N. Moore as Associate Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .Dr. Samuel K. Morgan as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective 1 July 1966, at a salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds.Mr. George W. Pugh as Visiting Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. James M. Rambeau as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. Mannque Rho as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Herman Rose as Lecturer in Art, for one semester, effective 1 February 1966, at a salary of Mr. Evon P. Ruzecki as Instructor in Marine Science, for one year, effective 1 February 1966.Mr. Haskell S. Springer as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of Mr. Jan Tereszczenko as Lecturer in Architecture, for two months, effective 1 February 1966, at a salary of .Mr. William L. Velton as Associate Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. Kenneth L. Webb as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 February 1966.Mrs. Viola H. Winner as Assistant Professor of English, one-third time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1966, at a salary of .Mrs. Viola H. Winner as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .

THE CHARLES SLAUGHTER PROFESSORSHIP OF PHYSIOLOGY
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Medicine to be known as the Charles Slaughter Professorship of Physiology.

ELECTION OF DR. ROBERT M. BERNE AS CHARLES SLAUGHTER PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Robert M. Berne be and he is hereby elected Charles Slaughter Professor of Physiology, effective 1 September 1966.

THE SADIE HEATH CABANISS PROFESSORSHIP OF NURSING
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Nursing to be known as the Sadie Heath Cabaniss Professorship of Nursing.

ELECTION OF MISS MARY M. LOHR AS SADIE HEATH CABANISS PROFESSOR OF NURSING
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Miss Mary M. Lohr be and she is hereby elected Sadie Heath Cabaniss Professor of Nursing, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1966.

THE ROBERT C. TAYLOR PROFESSORSHIP IN PHYSICS
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the Department of Physics to be known as the Robert C. Taylor Professorship of Physics.

ELECTION OF MR. FRANK L. HEREFORD AS ROBERT C. TAYLOR PROFESSOR OF PHYSICS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Frank L. Hereford be and he is hereby elected Robert C. Taylor Professor of Physics, at an annual salary of , effective 1 February 1966.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Robert T. Barbee as Assistant Professor of Art, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Morris L. Brehmer as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. William J. Davis as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Jurgen H. Grefe as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one year, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Russell N. Grimes as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Dexter S. Haven as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Edwin B. Joseph as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. David B. Lawall as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Donald G. Loach as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Neil G. McCormick as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective 1 January 1966.Mr. DeForest Mellon, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. John D. Miller as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Kongki Min as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Maynard M. Nichols as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. John J. Norcross as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. John L. Peterman as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Roger L. Ransom as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Robert C. Regan as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. David S. Smith as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. George B. Thomas, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Marvin L. Wass as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Jack R. Willey as Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Langley H. Wood as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. David M. Bevington, Associate Professor of English, to Professor of English, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. Jerry L. Johnson, Instructor in Spanish, to Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .

CANCELLATION OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF DR. IVAR P. ENGE, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF RADIOLOGY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the leave of absence for Dr. Ivar P. Enge, Associate Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective 1 January 1966, without pay, to return home and qualify for immigration visa for permanent residence, as approved by the Board on 11 December 1965, be and it is hereby canceled.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Dr. Ivar P. Enge, Associate Professor of Radiology, for two years, effective 1 January 1966, without pay, to return home and qualify for immigration visa for permanent residence.Mr. Peter L. Heath, Professor of Philosophy, for the period 1 February 1966 through 30 June 1966, without pay, to accept a Visiting Professorship at the University of Michigan.Mr. Fulvio A. Iachetta, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for the period 1 February 1966 through 30 June 1966, without pay, to continue doctoral work under Science Faculty Fellowship which has been extended by National Science Foundation.Mr. Donald G. Loach, Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, with one-half pay, to accelerate the completion of the requirements for the Ph.D. degree.Miss Mary M. Lohr, Sadie Heath Cabaniss Professor of Nursing, for the period 1 July 1966 through 30 September 1966, without pay, to complete her assignment at the College of Nursing, University of Illinois, before coming to Charlottesville.Mr. Jan Lubicz-Nyez, Lecturer in Architecture, for the period beginning 1 February 1966 through 31 March 1966, without pay, to accept a special lecture assignment for two months at the School of Architecture of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.Mr. William S. Weedon, University Professor of Philosophy, for one semester, effective 1 September 1966, without pay, to do research in Philosophy and Chinese.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Dr. Charles L. Crockett, Jr., from Lecturer in Internal Medicine, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 15 January 1966.Mr. Fred Gornick, from Acting Associate Professor of Materials Science, to Associate Professor of Materials Science, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. W. Reed Johnson, from Lecturer in Nuclear Engineering, one-third time, to Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. James L. Kelly, from Acting Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, to Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Wilhelm Godschalk, Instructor in Biochemistry, at a salary of to be paid from local funds, effective 1 January 1966.Dr. Gerald Goldstein, Associate Professor of Microbiology, at a salary of to be paid from local funds, effective 1 January 1966.Mr. Robert J. Harris, Professor of Government, at a salary of , effective 1 February 1966.Mr. William H. Kaven, Assistant Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 February 1966.Mr. Maurice J. Meisner, Assistant Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Walter B. Salley, Lecturer in Commerce, at a salary of of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 February 1966.Mr. Thomas G. Williamson, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, at an annual salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Edward E. Younger, Professor of History, at a salary of effective 1 February 1966.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Marlin B. Ewing, Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine, effective 15 March 1966, to accept a position at Emory University.Mr. Jose D. Jurado, Assistant Professor of Spanish, effective 30 June 1966, to return to Carlton University in Ottawa, Canada.Mrs. Deanna J. Martin, Instructor in Nursing, effective 15 February 1966, to accompany her husband who has been inducted into the Army.Dr. Oscar A. Thorup, Jr., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 15 February 1966, to accept the position of Professor and Chairman of the Department of Medicine at the University of Arizona.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, the following appointment was announced: Captain James O. Moore as Assistant Professor of Air Science, for four years, effective 31 May 1966.Lt. Colonel Jack G. Murray as Professor of Air Science, for four years, effective 31 July 1966.

Also, the following appointments were announced: Mr. Douglas W. Alden as Chairman of the Department of Romance Languages and General Linguistics, for the period 1 September 1966 through 30 June 1969.Miss Zula M. Baber as Acting Dean of the School of Nursing, for the period 1 July 1966 through 30 September 1966.Dr. Charles L. Crockett, Jr. as Assistant Dean for Continuing Education in the School of Medicine, effective 15 January 1966.Mr. Richard A. Ferrell as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies in the Sciences, for one year, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Walter D. Fletcher as Counsellor-in-Residence in the School of Law, without pay, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Edwin E. Floyd as Chairman of the Department of Mathematics, for five years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Frank L. Hereford as Provost of the University of Virginia, for the period 1 February 1966 through 30 June 1971.Mr. W. Reed Johnson as Assistant Director of the Nuclear Reactor Facility of the School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Irwin R. Konigsberg as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies in the Sciences, for three years, effective 1 August 1966.Mr. William A. Little as Chairman of the Department of Germanic and Slavic Languages, for the period 1 September 1966 through 30 June 1971.Miss Mary M. Lohr as Dean of the School of Nursing, for five years, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Merrill D. Peterson as Chairman of the Department of History, for the period 1 February 1966 through 30 June 1971.Mr. Edward E. Younger as Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for the period 1 February 1966 through 30 June 1971.

GENERAL FACULTY COMPENSATION PLAN AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AT CHARLOTTESVILLE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Academic Rank

Normal Entrance Rate

Normal Increase Interval

Normal Amount of Increase

Professor

$ 15,000

2 years

$ 1,000

Associate Professor

12,000

2 years

600

Assistant Professor

10,000

1 year

500

Instructor

7,800

1 year

350

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1966, the general faculty annual (twelve months) salary scale for the University of Virginia at Charlottesville, as shown below, be and it is hereby approved:Academic RankNormal Entrance RateNormal Increase IntervalNormal Amount of IncreaseProfessor$ 15,0002 years$ 1,000Associate Professor12,0002 years600Assistant Professor10,0001 year500Instructor7,8001 year350

REARRANGEMENT OF DEPARTMENTS IN THE FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
----------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported on his plans to (1) divide the Department of Modern Languages into two parts consisting of the Department of Romance Languages and General Linguistics and the Department of Germanic and Slavic Languages, effective 1 September 1966, and (2) to abolish the Department of Modern Languages, effective 1 September 1966.

REPORT ON COMMUNITY COLLEGES
----------------------------

The President reported in detail on the current status of the Governor's higher education bill now before the 1966 General Assembly. As passed by the House of Delegates, the bill provides for the separation of Patrick Henry College, Eastern Shore Branch, Lynchburg Branch, and the Roanoke Center from the University and their transfer to the proposed State Community College Board which will administer the State-wide system of community colleges. Also, a bill had passed the House of Delegates which provided for George Mason College to go to a four-year status with the third year of college work beginning on 1 September 1966, and for Clinch Valley College to begin the transition to a four-year college on 1 September 1968. The President proposed that the Board express its willingness to undertake the transition of Clinch Valley College to a four-year college provided the legislation as passed by the House of Delegates was finally adopted.

After discussion, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia be developed as a degree-granting division of the University and that the President be and he is hereby directed to prepare plans for this purpose to become effective 1 July 1968;AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a copy of this resolution be sent to the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, the Speaker of the House of Delegates of the General Assembly, and the State Council of Higher Education.

DEATH OF MR. EDWIN W. PATTERSON
-------------------------------

Mr. Edwin W. Patterson, Scholar-in-Residence, died on Thursday, 23 December 1965, after a short illness. He had been on the staff of the University at intervals since September 1957.

From the Rector, the President and the individual Visitors there were expressions of the affection and esteem in which Mr. Patterson was held, and the Secretary was directed to convey to his widow and to record in the permanent minutes of the Board the deep sense of loss felt by the Board and the gratitude of the Visitors, both as a body and as individuals, for Mr. Patterson's distinguished and devoted services to the University.

VIRGINIA ASSOCIATED RESEARCH CENTER
-----------------------------------

The President reported that the Governing Committee of the Virginia Associated Research Center, which is composed of the Presidents of the College of William and Mary, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, and the University of Virginia, has received an application from the Medical College of Virginia to become a full fledged member of the Virginia Associated Research Center. The Governing Committee considered the proposal and approved the recommendation for the admission of the Medical College of Virginia as a member of the Virginia Associated Research Center, subject to the approval of the governing boards of each of the three original members of the Center.

The following resolution was therefore adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Board approves the admission of the Medical College of Virginia to full membership in the Virginia Associated Research Center, provided, however, that the Medical College of Virginia will not participate in the funds previously requested for the Center for the 1966-68 biennium.

CONSOLIDATED UNIVERSITY ENDOWMENT FUND
--------------------------------------

Messrs. L. B. Gunn, Irvin Will, and T. Foster Witt, Jr. of the State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts of Richmond appeared before the Board and presented a detailed report on the University of Virginia Consolidated Endowment Fund for the year ending 25 January 1966.

DORMITORY LOAN
--------------

The President presented a proposal for a loan of not to exceed $500,000 from endowment funds to supplement the $2,400,000 bond issue to make possible the construction of Observatory Houses to accommodate 600 students.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Comptroller be and he is hereby authorized to advance from endowment funds a loan in an amount not to exceed $500,000 at an interest rate of 4-1/2 per cent for the purpose of supplementing the proceeds of the $2,400,000 bond issue to provide sufficient funds to construct the Observatory Houses to accommodate 600 students.

LOCATION OF NEW MEDICAL EDUCATION BUILDING
------------------------------------------

The President presented to the Board a Topographic Map showing the site of and the location thereon of the proposed new Medical Education Building. In order to utilize the site, the President pointed out, it would be necessary to close Randall Street, Nassau Place and a 15 foot alley running parallel to and between Nassau Place and Park Place and to relocate the water, gas, sewer and storm sewer lines now located therein. He further pointed out that the University owned all the land on both sides of said streets and alley.

The President reported that, in order to meet the deadline of March 1, 1966 for the filing of application for Federal Grant support under the provision of the Public Health Service Act, he had made application on behalf of the University to the City Council of Charlottesville to close the streets and alley referred to above and had undertaken on the University's behalf to state that it would bear the expense and grant the necessary easements to relocate the utilities, with the understanding that the Board of Visitors would be requested to adopt at this meeting a resolution making formal request of the City Council of the City of Charlottesville to close the streets and alley above referred to, and undertaking to bear the expense and grant the necessary easements to relocate the utilities.

At the meeting of the City Council held on February 7th, 1966 the matter was referred to the City Planning Commission for recommendation. After consideration of the matter at its meeting on February 8th and a view of the location the City Planning Commission on February 11, 1966 made the following recommendations to be considered by the City Council at its next meeting on February 21st:

RE: Request of the University of Virginia to close Randall Street, Nassau Place and a 15 foot Alley.

The Planning Commission has studied the request of the University of Virginia to close the streets and alley in order for them to erect a new Medical Education Building on the south side of Jefferson Park Avenue west of Lee Street and respectfully recommends as follows:

1\. That the streets and alley be closed as requested conditioned, of course, upon the University of Virginia granting new easements for storm sewer and utility lines and the relocating of said lines.

2\. The Planning Commission further recommends that the University should grant perpetual easements on Jefferson Park Avenue and Lee Street, as shown on the attached plat, to enable the widening of Jefferson Park Avenue to provide for four (4) twelve foot (12') lanes of traffic and a six foot (6') sidewalk on the south side of Jefferson Park Avenue and the widening of Lee Street fifteen feet (15') on the west side.

The Planning Commission is of the opinion that the widening of Jefferson Park Avenue is necessary to facilitate the movement of traffic at this location and to provide adequate turning movements into the University of Virginia Hospital.

Mr. Kyle Roop, City Planning Engineer has stated that while the exact width of the desired easement along Jefferson Park Avenue cannot be determined until an accurate survey has been made by the City Engineering Department, he estimates that between Nassau Place and Lee Street the easement for street purposes will be approximately 10 feet at the Nassau Place end and approximately 8 feet at the Lee Street end, plus a parallel easement of 6 feet for sidewalk.

After discussion, upon motion duly made and seconded it was,

RESOLVED, that the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby requests the City Council of the City of Charlottesville to take the necessary steps to close Randall Street from Park Place to Jefferson Park Avenue, Nassau Place from Lane Road to Randall Street, and the 15 foot alley lying between and running parallel to Park Place and Nassau Place, from Lane Road to Randall Street, with the understanding that in such event The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia will:

(a) relocate at its expense the water, gas, sewer and storm sewer lines now located in said streets and alley, and grant easements to the City of Charlottesville for such utilities as relocated;

(b) grant to the City of Charlottesville a perpetual easement for the purpose of widening Jefferson Park Avenue between Nassau Place and Lee Street, the easement for street purposes not to exceed 10 feet in width at any point, the exact width to be determined by a field survey, plus a parallel easement of 6 feet for sidewalk;

(c) unless, after consultation with the City authorities it appears more feasible to widen Lee Street on its easterly side, grant to the City of Charlottesville a perpetual easement for the purpose of widening Lee Street on its west side between Jefferson Park Avenue and Park Place a width of 15 feet;

RESOLVED, Further, that the President or Comptroller be, and either of them hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to execute and deliver on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, an instrument or instruments granting to the City of Charlottesville easements for the purposes hereinabove outlined, and to take such other steps and execute such other and further documents as they, or either of them, may deem necessary or advisable, with respect to or in connection with the closing of said streets and alley; and the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Board be, and either or them hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to affix the seal of the University of Virginia to any such instrument or document and to attest the same.

TUITION AND FEE CHARGES FOR DOCTORAL PROGRAM IN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginia Residents

Out-of-State Residents

Tuition

$ 545

$ 1,025

Comprehensive Fees

112

112

\------

\--------

Total

$ 657

$ 1,137

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition charges and fees for students in the doctoral program in the Graduate School of Business Administration shall, effective 1 September 1966, be as follows:1. For each session of full-time residence at the University of Virginia required to fulfill residence requirements (same as MBA program):Virginia ResidentsOut-of-State ResidentsTuition$ 545$ 1,025Comprehensive Fees112112--------------Total$ 657$ 1,1372. For each semester (fall, spring, summer) not required to fulfill residence requirements: (a) tuition for each course, seminar, and preparation of dissertation proposal or dissertation under active supervision of a member of the faculty, $45 for a Virginia resident, and $85 for an out-of-state resident; (b) comprehensive fee for each semester in residence, $56 for the fall and spring semesters, and $17 for the summer term.

THE BIENNIAL BUDGET REQUEST AND THE SUPPLEMENTARY REQUEST
---------------------------------------------------------

The President presented a detailed report on the Governor's action on the University's biennial budget request and the supplementary request which the President had made earlier for a restoration of some of the Governor's reductions.

DEATH OF JUDGE WAYNE G. BORAH, 1891-1966
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we have learned with deep regret of the death on 6 February 1966 of Judge Wayne G. Borah of New Orleans.A native of Louisiana, Judge Borah attended Washington and Lee University, the University of Virginia, and Louisiana State University before he was admitted to the bar in his home state in 1915. Following service as a reserve officer in the United States Army during World War I, Judge Borah rose rapidly in his profession, serving successively as United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Louisiana, as Judge of the United States District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana, and as Judge of the Fifth Circuit of the United States Court of Appeals.Throughout his constructive and distinguished career, Judge Borah never failed in his loyalty and devotion to his alma mater, giving generously of his time and effort on her behalf. For many years, and wholly without remuneration, he gave counsel and guidance to the University's interest in the Vincent Estate.THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that in the death of Judge Borah the University of Virginia and its governing board have lost a wise and generous friend who will be gratefully remembered; and that the Secretary be and he is hereby directed to record the expression of our sorrow in the permanent minutes of the Board, and to transmit copies of the resolution, with our profound sympathy, to Mrs. Wayne G. Borah, to Mr. William E. Borah, II, and to Mr. and Mrs. E. R. Slaughter, Jr.

THE PRESIDENT'S WEDDING ANNIVERSARY
-----------------------------------

Visitor Montague called the attention of the Board to the fact that the prior day, 11 February 1966, was the tenth wedding anniversary of the President and Mrs. Shannon. The Board unanimously expressed its felicitations to the Shannons on this occasion.

THE RETIRING MEMBERS OF THE BOARD
---------------------------------

Attention was called to the impending retirement on 28 February 1966 of the Rector and Visitors Lantor and Montague. These members were reminded that they were to be present for a luncheon to be given in their honor by the Board following the regular meeting on 2 April 1966.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSLEAVES OF ABSENCE
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Nathaniel H. Brown, Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, with one-half pay, for the purpose of pursuing research in Percy Bysshe Shelley and George Gordon, Lord Byron.Mrs. Jean S. Edson, Assistant Professor of Music and Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, with one-half pay, for the purpose of pursuing research previously begun on the preparation and compilation of an index of choral preludes for the organ.Miss Miriam J. Greenberg, Assistant Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, with one-half pay, to pursue graduate study towards the doctorate at the University of Maryland.Mr. Mathew Herban, III, Instructor in Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, without pay, to continue his studies toward the doctorate at Harvard University.Mrs. Cornelia D. Oliver, Assistant Professor of Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, with one-half pay, to pursue graduate study towards the doctorate at Catholic University.Miss Mary Ellen Stephenson, Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, for one year, effective 1 July 1966, without pay, to accept a visiting lectureship at Women's Christian College, Madras, India, under the United States-India Women's College Exchange Program.

NAMING OF NEW DORMITORY
-----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the new dormitory to be constructed at Mary Washington College be and it is hereby named Thomas Jefferson Hall.

PROGRESS REPORT
---------------

The Chancellor presented in detail a progress report on current developments at Mary Washington College.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Misri L. Vatsia as Lecturer in Physics, two-thirds time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1966, at a salary of .

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: Resolved by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby reelected to the faculty:Mr. Richard H. Pierce as Assistant Professor of Accounting, for three years, effective 15 March 1966.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mrs, Joanne M. Baker, Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, effective 31 January 1966, for personal reasons.Mr. Samuel O. Ruff, Lecturer in Economics and English, effective 31 January 1966, to accept a position with the Federal Government.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Richard H. Pierce as Business Manager, for the period 15 March 1966 through 30 June 1967.

FACULTY COMPENSATION PLAN AT GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------------

Academic Rank

Normal Entrance Rate

Normal Increase Interval

Normal Amount of Increase

Professor

$ 10,000

2 Academic Years

$ 500

Associate Professor

8,200

2 Academic Years

400

Assistant Professor

7,200

1 Academic Year

300

Instructor

6,200

1 Academic Year

200

Junior Instructor

5,400

1 Academic Year

200

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1966, the faculty session salary scale for George Mason College, as shown below, be and it is hereby approved:Academic RankNormal Entrance RateNormal Increase IntervalNormal Amount of IncreaseProfessor$ 10,0002 Academic Years$ 500Associate Professor8,2002 Academic Years400Assistant Professor7,2001 Academic Year300Instructor6,2001 Academic Year200Junior Instructor5,4001 Academic Year200

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 12:45 p.m.

WC:dbc