Board of Visitors minutes (1967) December 9, 1967
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

December 9, 1967

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 9 December 1967
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on 9 December 1967 in the Office of the President at Charlottesville with the following members present: Rector Frank W. Rogers; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Brown, Cross, Faulconer, Johnson, Kendig, Kuykendall, Lewis, Parrish, Potter, Wilkinson, and Williams. Absent: William M. Birdsong, J. Hartwell Harrison, and Lewis M. Walker, Jr. were absent.

The minutes of the meeting of 13 October 1967, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the 1966 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector called for the election of a Visitor to the Executive Committee to fill the vacancy created by the resignation of A. S. Harrison, Jr. from the Board of Visitors on 18 October 1967. On motion of Mr. Kuykendall, seconded by Mr. Faulconer, Langbourne M. Williams was unanimously elected to the Executive Committee.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Charles S. Barrett as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, for the period 10 February 1968 through 31 March 1968, at a monthly salary of Mr. Charles H. Barron, Jr., as Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Dr. David Barton as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for the period 1 June 1968 through 30 June 1970, at an annual salary of Mr. Marcel Breuer as Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professor of Architecture, for three months, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Dr. Arthur K. Brown as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Dentistry), one-half time, for three years, effective 15 November 1967, at an annual salary of Judge John D. Butzner, Jr., as Lecturer in Law, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Mr. James F. Childress as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Inis L. Claude, Jr., as Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Leopold Damrosch, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Vincent J. Esposito as Instructor in Nuclear Engineering, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Mr. Harry E. Figgie, Jr., as Lecturer in Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 January 1968, without pay.Mr. George C. Grant as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 February 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. John W. Israel as Associate Professor of History, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert E. Jordan, III, as Lecturer in Law, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Mrs. Vernita M. Kay as Professor of Nursing, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of .Mr. Herbert H. J. Keil as Lecturer in Psychiatry, for the period 1 January 1968 through 30 June 1968, at a salary of Mr. Enno E. Kraehe as Professor of History, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Roland N. McKean as Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of Dr. Carl R. Showalter as Lecturer in Law, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Miss Phyllis J. Verhonick as Professor of Nursing, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF MR. ALEXANDER B. HORNIMAN
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Mr. Alexander B. Horniman as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, as approved by the Board on 13 October 1967, be and it is hereby changed from 1 December 1967 to 1 November 1967.

ELECTION TO FACULTY OF LIBRARIAN
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following member of the library staff of the University be and he is hereby elected to the General Faculty, without change in salary, to be listed in the appropriate faculty section of University catalogues by the title of the library position only:Mr. Richard H. Austin, Science Information Director, to rank as Assistant Professor, for three years, effective 25 September 1967.

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Clive Bradbeer as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of Mr. Michael B. Burke as Acting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Taher El Gammal as Visiting Assistant Professor of Radiology, for the period 7 November 1967 through 30 June 1968, at an annual salary of .Mr. Samuel J. Goldstein as Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Howard L. Hamilton as Professor of Biology, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968Mr. Barry Hannegan as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Max Isenberg as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Mr. Donald G. Loach as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Hugh S. Plunkett as Acting Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Edward J. Rinalducci as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Arthur I. Schulman as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. W. Cullen Sherwood as Assistant Professor of Geology, for two years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John L. Sullivan as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. H. John Wood, III as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mr. Ertle Thompson, from Lecturer, to Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 February 1968, at a session salary of

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. George L. Falkenhagen, from Lecturer in Engineering Drawing, three-fourths time, to Assistant Professor of Engineering Drawing, for the period 1 February 1968 through 30 June 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Jeff A. Pyatte, from Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 November 1967.Dr. Donald J. Wright, from Assistant Professor of Surgery, to Assistant Professor of Surgery and of Biomedical Engineering, for the period 1 February 1968 through 31 December 1969.

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and she is hereby granted leave of absence:Miss Ruth E. Brong, Associate Professor of Nursing, for the period 9 October 1967 through 29 October 1967, without pay, to allow time for completion of her book.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Dr. Elia C. Dimitri, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, at an annual salary of effective 1 September 1967.Miss Mary A. MacDougall, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of plus 20 per cent for summer work, or a total salary of effective 1 November 1967.Mr. Nathaniel F. G. Martin, Associate Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John T. Roberts, Assistant Professor of Hindi and Linguistics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Dr. William G. Thurman, Benjamin Armistead Shepherd Professor of Pediatrics, at an annual salary of effective 1 January 1968.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Ivar P. Enge, Associate Professor of Radiology, effective 31 December 1967. Dr. Enge will not return after his Leave of Absence.Mr. Johan A. Friedericy, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, effective 31 January 1968, to accept a position with the AiResearch Manufacturing Company, Los Angeles.Dr. Byrd S. Leavell, Chairman, Department of Internal Medicine, effective 30 November 1967, because of illness.Mr. Paul F. McGouldrick, Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1967, because of a change in departmental plans.Mr. Maurice J. Meisner, Associate Professor of History, effective 30 June 1968, to accept a position at the University of South California, Santa Cruz.Miss Linda D. Robinson, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective 15 July 1968, to begin doctoral study at the University of California, San Francisco.Mr. Hartwig Schmidt, Assistant Professor of Physics and Member, Center for Advanced Studies, effective 31 January 1968, to accept a position at the Institut Max von Laue-Paul Langevin, Munich.Mr. David E. Underdown, Associate Professor of History, effective 30 June 1968, to accept a position at Brown University.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Charles S. Barrett as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for the period 10 February 1968 through 31 March 1968.Mr. Inis L. Claude, Jr., as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Enno E. Kraehe as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Roland N. McKean as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Daniel N. Mohler as Acting Chairman, Department of Internal Medicine, for the period 1 December 1967 through 30 June 1968.Mr. James W. Simmons as Director, University of Virginia Band, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John L. Snook, Jr., as Assistant Dean, Graduate School of Business Administration, for five years, effective 1 November 1967.

DEATH OF MR. MORRIS E. ROSE
---------------------------

From The Rector, the President, and the individual Visitors there were expressions of the affection and esteem in which Mr. Rose was held, and the Secretary was directed to convey to his next of kin and to record in the permanent minutes of the Board the deep sense of loss felt by the Board and the gratitude of the Visitors, both as a body and as individuals, for Mr. Rose's distinguished and devoted services to the University.

SCHEDULE OF BOARD MEETINGS FOR 1968
-----------------------------------

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, 15, 16, and 17 February 1968

Charlottesville

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, 18, 19, and 20 April 1968

Fredericksburg

Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 5, 6, and 7 June 1968

Charlottesville

Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 2, 3, and 4 October 1968

Charlottesville

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, 12, 13, and 14 December 1968

Charlottesville

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following dates for the 1968 meetings of the Board be and they are hereby approved:Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, 15, 16, and 17 February 1968CharlottesvilleThursday, Friday, and Saturday, 18, 19, and 20 April 1968FredericksburgWednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 5, 6, and 7 June 1968CharlottesvilleWednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 2, 3, and 4 October 1968CharlottesvilleThursday, Friday, and Saturday, 12, 13, and 14 December 1968Charlottesville

REPORT ON ATHLETIC FINANCES
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a report of the Department of Athletics entitled "Report of Receipts and Disbursements, Intercollegiate Athletics, for the Period July 1, 1966 to June 30, 1967" be and it is hereby approved for submission to the Director of the Budget of the Commonwealth as required by law.

AUDIT REPORT FOR FISCAL 1966
----------------------------

The President reported on the University's Audit Report for the fiscal year ending on 30 June 1966, as prepared by the State Auditor of Public Accounts.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program.

AUTHORIZATION FOR THE PROVOST AND THE ASSOCIATE PROVOST FOR RESEARCH TO SIGN CONTRACTS FOR RESEARCH AND TRAINING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Provost and the Associate Provost for Research be and each of them is hereby authorized to sign on behalf of the University of Virginia all grants and contracts for research and training.

CHARLES ROGERS FENWICK LIBRARY AT GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Library at George Mason College be and it is hereby named Charles Rogers Fenwick Library in honor of a distinguished alumnus, public servant, and former member of the Board of Visitors and Rector of the University.

PAPERS OF HOWARD W. SMITH
-------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Honorable Howard Worth Smith, a dedicated member of the Board of Visitors from 1952 to 1960 and an illustrious alumnus of the University, has given to the University his personal and official papers reflecting an active period in the service of the Commonwealth and the Nation from 1917 to 1967 -- a period of fifty years; andWHEREAS these papers will be of great value to students and scholars as they study the period during which "Judge" Smith, as he is known to all of us, was an active participant in the public life of the Commonwealth and the Nation;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we express to our beloved former colleague our thanks for his generosity in honoring his alma mater through the gift of his papers.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$53,906.87

Free service to Counties and Cities

142,735.36

\-----------

Total

$196,642.23

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1520, 1521, 1524, 1525, 1527, and 1528, aggregating $196,642.23, as recommended by it, consisting of the following:Bad debts, etc.$53,906.87Free service to Counties and Cities142,735.36-----------Total$196,642.23

SECOND FOLLOW-UP REPORT ON THE REPORT OF THE VISITATION COMMITTEE OF THE SOUTHERN ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGES AND SCHOOLS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Second Follow-up Report, dated 31 October 1967, on the Report of the Visitation Committee of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, as presented by the President to the Association, be and it is hereby approved.

THE TRACY W. McGREGOR LIBRARY
-----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: That the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, having been advised of the decision of the Trustees of the McGregor Fund not only to extend for another five-year period but also to increase the annual grants for the purchase of additions to the Tracy W. McGregor Library, join the President of the University in expressing their deep appreciation to the Trustees for this manifestation of satisfaction in the management of the McGregor Library;That the Rector and Visitors have been gratified by the growth of the McGregor Library during the preceding three decades owing to the generous support of the McGregor Fund;That the Rector and Visitors recognize that the support of the Trustees of the McGregor Fund in the appropriation of annual and special supplemental grants to the McGregor Library, in gifts to the University in support of its faculty in American History, and in its continuing counsel and friendly help through the Advisory Committee of the McGregor Library, has been of inestimable value in promoting the tremendous growth of its faculty and courses of instruction in American History to its present national eminence;That the Rector and Visitors further resolve that for the next ensuing ten years they propose to continue at least in its present strength the staff of the Rare Book and Manuscript Divisions of its Library, of which the McGregor Library is an important and integral part; that the $2,500 which has annually for thirty years been spent by the University for additions to the McGregor Library be reassigned to the Rare Book and Manuscript Divisions for the next ensuing ten years, specifically designated for additions to the McGregor Library in the same manner as under the original Deed of Gift; andThat, in this Thirtieth year of the rewarding association of the University of Virginia with the Trustees of the McGregor Fund, the Rector and Visitors send warm greetings and felicitations to the Trustees of the McGregor Fund.

PROPOSED GIFT OF MRS. JOHN CALVIN METCALF
-----------------------------------------

The President reported that Mrs. John Calvin Metcalf had presented to the University a check for $2,000, the income from which was to be used to maintain her husband's headstone in the University Cemetery. After consideration, the Secretary was instructed to inform Mrs. Metcalf that the Board of Visitors was not in a position to accept a gift to be used for the specific maintenance of a single area of the Cemetery. He was further instructed, however, to inform Mrs. Metcalf that the Board had instructed its Buildings & Grounds Chairman to study the broader aspects of Cemetery maintenance which may help in reaching the goal she seeks.

PETITION OF MR. GENE N. HOBSON
------------------------------

The Chairman of the Committee on Student Affairs & Athletics, Mr. Faulconer, reported that the Committee had reviewed the petition of Mr. Gene N. Hobson, dated 10 October 1967, in which Mr. Hobson requested that "The University recognize all student groups (this request includes religious organizations) who apply for recognition from the Student Council. The only criteria for denying recognition would be an avowed aim of a group to destroy property or inflict physical injury." The Committee, Mr. Faulconer continued, after discussing the petition, had brought in a unanimous recommendation that the petition be denied.

After consideration of the petition, the Board instructed the Secretary to write to Mr. Hobson and inform him that his petition was denied.

CHANGES IN TIAA PLAN
--------------------

The Board on 11 December 1965 provided that the base for TIAA was to go from $5,300 to $5,500 on 1 January 1969, based on 1965 changes in the Social Security Act.

Congress on 7 December 1967 approved a change in the base for Social Security, effective 1 January 1968, which will result in an increase from $6,600 to $7,800 with the rate remaining at 4.4 percent.

The President recommended a change in the University's base for TIAA contributions to $5,500, effective 1 January 1968, and to $5,800, effective 1 January 1969 when the Social Security rate increases to 4.8 percent on $7,800.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the base for contributions by the University to the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association retirement plan for faculty members be increased from $5,300 to $5,500 on 1 January 1968, and to $5,800 on 1 January 1969.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSCHANGE IN TEACHING LOAD AND SALARY OF MRS. JOAN R. ROBBINS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the teaching load and salary of Mrs. Joan R. Robbins, Assistant Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), as approved by the Board on 13 October 1967, be and they are hereby changed from one-half time at a base salary of to three-fourths time, for the second semester beginning 1 February 1968, at a base salary of , or for the semester.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Roberto Jose Maldonado, Assistant Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages, effective 31 January 1968, because of the need to return to Puerto Rico.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mrs. Raiford E. Sumner as Director of the Summer Session, for three years, effective 15 November 1967.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE-VEPCO EASEMENT OVER GREENBRIER DRIVE
------------------------------------------------------------

Chancellor Simpson recalled to the Board that, at its meeting on 8 October 1965, a resolution was adopted authorizing a grant of an easement in a strip of land 60 feet wide to the City of Fredericksburg for the purposes of a street, which is now known as Greenbrier Drive. He stated that a request had now been received from Virginia Electric & Power Company for the grant of an easement to it for electric and telephone lines along Greenbrier Drive.

Chancellor Simpson reported that the College has no objection to the granting of such easement and recommended that it be granted. He presented for consideration a copy of the proposed easement agreement, with plat showing the route of the proposed right of way.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED, The Rector and Visitors having authority so to do under the provisions of Section 23-77.2 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, authorize the grant to Virginia Electric and Power Company of an easement for electric and telephone lines over, upon, and across the property of Mary Washington College, designated as "Greenbrier Drive," said property being more particularly described on plat dated 29 July 1965, attached to and recorded with a deed of easement from The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to the City of Fredericksburg, Virginia, of record in the Clerk's office of the Circuit Court of Fredericksburg in D.B. 130 p. 486, whereby an easement for street purposes was granted in said land. The location of said right of way easement hereby authorized shall be as shown in broken lines on Plat M 8817, as submitted to this meeting, it being understood that only one pole line will be erected along said right of way.RESOLVED, further, that the President or Comptroller of the University of Virginia be, and either of them hereby is, authorized, empowered, and directed to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, an instrument granting such easement to Virginia Electric and Power Company, and that the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of this Board be, and either of them hereby is, authorized, empowered, and directed to affix the corporate seal of the University of Virginia to such instrument and to attest the same, provided, however, that such instrument when submitted for execution has been approved as to form by the University's special counsel.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mrs. Angela J. Khoury as Assistant Professor of Government, for one year, effective 9 October 1967, at a session salary of Mrs. Jeanne C. Mellinger as Lecturer in Psychology, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mrs. Josephine F. Pacheco as Lecturer in History, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Yves C. van den Branden as Lecturer in French, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1967, at a salary of

RESIGNATION
-----------

DEATH OF MR. ROBERT T. VANCE
----------------------------

From the Rector, the President, and the individual Visitors there were expressions of the affection and esteem in which Mr. Vance was held, and the Secretary was directed to convey to his next of kin and to record in the permanent minutes of the Board the deep sense of loss felt by the Board and the gratitude of the Visitors, both as a body and as individuals, for Mr. Vance's distinguished and devoted services to the University.

CENTRAL VIRGINIA OFFICE MATTERSLEAVE OF ABSENCE
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Wendell M. Lewis, Lecturer in Education, for the period 1 January 1968 through 30 June 1968, without pay, to continue work on his dissertation and conclude his doctoral program at the University of Chicago.

MADISON OFFICE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Wilbur S. Braden as Instructor in English, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Walter D. Johnston as Instructor in English, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mrs. Diana A. Saunders as Instructor in French, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Roger D. Tinnell as Instructor in Spanish, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of