Board of Visitors minutes (1969) February 15, 1969
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

February 15, 1969

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 PAVILION VIII, EAST LAWN 15 February 1969
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on 15 February 1969 in the Office of the President at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Frank W. Rogers; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Barrett, Birdsong, Brown, Cross, J. Hartwell Harrison, W. Harrison, Johnson, Kendig, Kuykendall, McConnell, Parrish, Potter, Walker, Wheatley, and Wilkinson. Leigh B. Middleditch Jr. was present throughout the meeting. During the discussion of the admission of women, Messrs. Frank L. Hereford, Vincent Shea, and William A. Hobbs were also present. Grellet C. Simpson and Michael Houston were present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters.

The minutes of the meeting of 14 December 1968, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

APPOINTMENT OF NEW BOARD MEMBER
-------------------------------

The Rector welcomed Mr. C. Waller Barrett whose appointment to the Board of Visitors was announced by the Governor on 31 January 1969.

STANDING COMMITTEESExecutive CommitteeFinance CommitteeMary Washington College CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMedical CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that he had appointed Mr. C. Waller Barrett as a member of the Buildings and Grounds and Educational Policy Committees. The membership of the standing committees is as follows: Executive CommitteeFrank W. Rogers, ChairmanEdwin L. Kendig, Jr.J. Sloan KuykendallLewis M. Walker, Jr.J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr. Finance CommitteeWilliam S. Potter, ChairmanJoseph H. McConnellJ. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr. Mary Washington College CommitteeLewis M. Walker, Jr., ChairmanWilliam M. BirdsongMrs. E. Parker BrownRichard S. CrossMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr. Student Affairs and Athletics CommitteeWalkley E. Johnson, ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownRichard S. CrossJ. Hartwell HarrisonW. Wright HarrisonJoseph H. McConnellC. Stuart Wheatley, Jr. Medical CommitteeEdwin L. Kendig, Jr., ChairmanJ. Hartwell HarrisonLewis M. Walker, Jr. Buildings and Grounds CommitteeJ. Sloan Kuykendall, ChairmanC. Waller BarrettWilliam M. BirdsongW. Wright HarrisonMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr.J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr. Educational Policy CommitteeC. Stuart Wheatley, Jr., ChairmanC. Waller BarrettWalkley E. JohnsonEdwin L. Kendig, Jr.J. Sloan KuykendallWilliam S. Potter

The Rector, Mr. Frank W. Rogers, is an ex officio member of all committees.

TENTATIVE BOARD MEETING DATES FOR 1970
--------------------------------------

Time

Place

5, 6, and 7 February 1970

Fredericksburg

9, 10, and 11 April 1970

Charlottesville

3, 4, and 5 June 1970

Charlottesville

30 September and 1 and 2 October 1970

Charlottesville

3, 4, and 5 December 1970

Charlottesville

At the request of the Rector, the Secretary reported on a poll that had been taken of the members concerning meeting dates for the calendar year 1970. After discussion, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tentative locations and meeting dates of the Board of Visitors for the calendar year 1970 shall be as set forth below, subject to final confirmation by the Board at its meeting in December 1969:TimePlace5, 6, and 7 February 1970Fredericksburg9, 10, and 11 April 1970Charlottesville3, 4, and 5 June 1970Charlottesville30 September and 1 and 2 October 1970Charlottesville3, 4, and 5 December 1970Charlottesville

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Robert W. Artinian as Assistant Professor of French, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Harry L. Beazell, Jr., as Lecturer in Electrical Engineering, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of Mr. Francis X. Beytagh, Jr., as Lecturer in Law, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of Dr. Walter L. Blankenbaker as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of Dr. Charles B. Bray, Jr., as Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Edgar K. Browning as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Michael S. Caldwell as Associate Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of Mr. William R. Carriker as Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Cora Diamond as Lecturer in Philosophy, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Emory G. Evans as Visiting Professor of History, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, at a salary of .Mr. Paul A. Gaeng as Associate Professor of Romance Languages, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Edmund H. Henderson as Associate Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. James E. Lewis as Assistant Professor of Geography, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Richard B. Lillich as Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Reuben E. Maine as Lecturer in Electrical Engineering, one-half time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of Mr. Donald L. McGrady as Associate Professor of Spanish, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Mark A. Melton as Visiting Associate Professor of Geography, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of Mr. Richard A. Merrill as Associate Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Raymond J. Nelson as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Donald E. Nuechterlein as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of Dr. John K. Petrakis as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of Mr. Wallace E. Reed as Associate Professor of Geography, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Dr. Louis P. Ripley as Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. David L. Rubin as Assistant Professor of French, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Richard T. Selden as Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Lawrence Smith as Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Miss Olive M. Stone as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of .Mr. Robert E. Stroud as Lecturer in Business Administration, one-twelfth time, for one year, effective 1 February 1969, at a session salary of .Dr. Philip C. Trout as Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Dr. Patricia M. Andrews as Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. William G. Batte as Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for two years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Curtis M. Brooks as Acting Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Miss Jeannette A. Brown as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. James D. Bryden as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Mortimer M. Caplin as Visiting Professor of Law, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Miriam W. Carmichael as Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. John E. Christopher as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Thomas V. Czarnowski as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Bernard Dunau as Visiting Professor of Law, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Nathaniel M. Ewell, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Robert R. Fair as Associate Professor of Business Administration, for five years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Jack R. Gallagher as Assistant Professor of Education, for the period 1 March 1969 through 30 June 1969.Mr. Thomas J. Gates as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Thomas J. S. Hamilton as Acting Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Dexter S. Haven as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. William G. MacIntyre as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Minor M. Markle, III, as Assistant Professor of Classics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mrs. Gail S. Marshall as Assistant Professor of Law, for two years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Charles O. Meiburg as Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Frank O. Perkins as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Laurence C. Pettit, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Jerry D. Reber as Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Charles F. Sargent as Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Ralph J. Stoudt, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. William L. Velton as Associate Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Kenneth L. Webb as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 February 1969.Miss Eleanore C. Westhead as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Langley H. Wood as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. A. Wilbert Zelomek as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Phyllis S. Harrah, from Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective 1 February 1969, at an annual salary of Mr. Roger P. Sherman, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leaves of absence:Miss Ruth E. Brong, Associate Professor of Nursing, for the period 1 July 1969 through 31 August 1969, without pay, for personal reasons.Dr. Martin G. Netsky, Professor of Neuropathology, for the period 15 January 1969 through 30 June 1969, without pay, to accept the Alan Gregg Fellowship from the China Medical Board to study cerebrovascular disease in Japan.Mr. Kenneth R. Redden, Professor of Law, for the period 1 February 1969 through 30 June 1970, without pay, to accept a position as Professor of Law at the University of Saigon and legal advisor to the Government of South Vietnam.Mr. Robert F. Vandell, Professor of Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, without pay, to teach at the Management Development Institute, Lausanne, Switzerland.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Peter Hackett, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for the period 1 December 1968 through 30 June 1971.Mr. James T. Murphy, Jr., from Acting Associate Professor of Electrical Enginering to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for the period 1 February 1969 through 30 June 1970.Mr. William W. Roberts, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 February 1969.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSAssociate Professors:Assistant Professors:
----------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Melvin W. Aylor

Mr. John L. Gainer

Mr. Robert T. Barbee

Mr. Joseph E. Gibson

Mr. R. Edward Barker, Jr.

Mr. Charles H. Giffen

Mr. James H. Bash

Mr. Earl A. Glosser

Mr. William F. Beazer

Mr. Samuel J. Goldstein, Jr.

Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Jr.

Mr. Luther Y. Gore

Mr. Neil H. Borden, Jr.

Mr. John Graham

Mr. John W. Boring

Mr. Russell N. Grimes

Mr. E. Roger Boyle, Jr.

Mr. Edgar J. Gunter, Jr.

Mr. Ralph C. Bralley

Mr. John F. Hahn

Mr. William L. Breit

Mr. John S. Horner

Mr. Vittorio E. Celli

Mr. Raymond C. Heidloff

Mr. James S. Constantine

Mr. T. Graham Hereford

Mr. Gerald Cook

Mr. James N. Holtz

Mr. Everett U. Crosby

Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr.

Mr. Leonard T. Curtis

Mr. C. Alan Hutchinson

Mr. Douglas T. Day, III

Mr. Fulvio A. Iachetta

Mr. Bascom S. Deaver, Jr.

Mr. Milton Jacobson

Mr. Robert T. Denomme

Mr. Richard L. Jennings

Mr. Robert Dolan

Mr. Morris W. Jones

Mr. Lionel R. Duisit

Mr. David C. Jordan

Mr. Paul S. Dulaney

Mr. Charles R. Kaut

Mr. Robert L. Ellison

Mr. Matthias E. Kayhoe

Mr. Ralph Eisenberg

Mr. Hugh P. Kelly

Mr. Richard T. Eppink

Mr. James L. Kelly

Mr. Ernest H. Ern

Mr. Arthur C. Kirsch

Miss Jean C. Ervin

Mr. Edward A. Kolodziej

Mr. Robert R. Fair

Mr. Shiv S. Kumar

Mr. Frank E. Flora

Mr. Hugh S. Landes

Mr. Bryant C. Freeman

Mr. David W. Lewis

Mr. Lembit U. Lilleleht

Mrs. Willie Lee Rose

Mr. Peter W. Low

Mr. James L. Rovnyak

Mr. Gustav D. Magnuson

Mr. John A. Sanderson

Mr. Stanislaw J. Makielski, Jr.

Mr. Charles F. Sargent

Mr. Wendall E. Malbon

Mr. Antonin Scalia

Mr. Marcus B. Mallett

Mr. Alexander Sedgwick

Mr. James E. Mann, Jr.

Mr. Donald H. Shoemaker

Mr. Samuel P. Maroney

Mr. Jerry G. Short

Mr. Nathaniel G. F. Martin

Mr. Paul S. Shoup

Mr. George B. Matthews

Mr. William W. Sihler

Mr. Ernest C. Mead, Jr.

Mr. James G. Simmonds

Mr. Charles O. Meiberg

Mr. Lawrence A. Simpson

Mr. DeForest Mellon, Jr.

Mr. Edward R. Slaughter

Mr. John F. Mesinger

Mr. Clyde R. Smith

Mr. Dale R. Metcalf

Mr. John L. Snook, Jr.

Mr. Ralph C. Minehart

Mr. Stanley E. Sobottka

Mr. Edward V. Mochel

Mr. John W. Stewart

Mr. Douglas G. Mook

Mr. Richard J. Sundberg

Mr. Bernard A. Morin

Mr. George B. Thomas, Jr.

Mr. Harold S. Morton, Jr.

Mr. Ertle Thompson

Mr. Joseph J. Murray, Jr.

Mr. James S. Tuley

Miss Mary Ann MacDougall

Mr. Theodore Turner

Mr. George A. McAlpine

Mr. William L. Velton

Mr. Woodford D. McClellan

Mr. Wayne A. Wallace

Mr. Fred C. McCormick

Mr. Paul B. Walter

Mr. Roger Orkin

Mr. David W. Weiss

Mr. Eugene C. Paige, Jr.

Mr. Henry K. White

Mr. Carlo Pelliccia

Mr. Thomas R. White, Jr.

Mr. Charles G. Reid, Jr.

Mr. D. Alan Williams

Mr. Donald L. Reid

Mr. Thomas G. Williamson

Mr. James L. Riopel

Mr. Anthony Winner

Mr. Rogers C. Ritter

Mr. Theodore R. F. Wright

Mr. Oscar R. Rodig

Mr. David C. Yalden-Thomson

Mr. William G. Rose

Mr. Ricardo N. Zapata

Mr. Klaus O. Ziock

Mr. Richard R. Abidin

Mr. Fred A. Diehl

Mr. Charles C. Alexander

Miss Caroline Dinegar

Mr. W. Lester S. Andrews

Mr. Alistair M. Duckworth

Mr. Harry T. Antrim

Mr. Charles F. Dunkl

Mr. James A. Arnold

Mr. Nicholas C. Edsall

Mr. Alfred A. Arth

Mr. William A. Elwood

Mr. Roger J. Bain

Mr. Kenneth G. Elzinga

Mr. J. Taylor Beard

Mr. James W. England

Mr. Donald E. Beck

Mr. Max D. Evans

Mr. Phillip J. Best

Mr. George L. Falkenhagen

Mr. Thomas W. Best

Mr. Samuel S. Fisher

Mr. Rolland A. Bowers

Mr. David H. Flaherty

Mr. Charles B. Braden

Mr. William O. Freithaler

Miss Jeanette A. Brown

Mr. Charles L. Fry

Mr. James D. Bryden

Mr. Donald K. Fry, Jr.

Mr. Herbert M. Burks, Jr.

Mr. Reginald H. Garrett

Mr. James T. Cargile

Mr. Omer A. Gianniny, Jr.

Mr. Francis A. Carey

Mr. Billy J. Gilpin

Mr. Charles S. Chen

Mr. Herbert O. Goller

Mr. James F. Childress

Mr. Leigh E. Grosenick

Mr. John E. Christopher

Mr. Peter Hackett

Mr. Ronald E. Clapper

Mr. James G. Hagen

Mr. Roger H. Clark

Mr. Kenneth R. Hall

Mr. Alton K. Clement

Mr. James A. Hardell

Mr. Christopher Collins

Mr. Wesley L. Harris

Mr. Raymond J. Cormier

Mr. Willard W. Harrison

Mr. James A. D. Cox

Mr. Marvin J. Homzie

Mr. Thomas V. Czarnowski

Mr. Alan B. Howard

Mr. Leopold Damrosch, Jr.

Mr. James S. Howland

Mr. Donald A. Danielson

Mr. Donald F. Hunt

Mr. Frederick Davidson

Mr. Mu S. Jhon

Mr. Thomas H. Dawson

Mr. Jerry L. Johnson

Mr. Benjamin A. DeGraff

Mr. Joseph Kett

Mr. Aime S. DeReggi

Mr. Harold H. Kolb

Mr. G. Siegfried Kutter

Mr. Alan I. Ritter

Mr. F. Duane Lamkin

Mr. John T. Roberts

Mr. K. Edward Lay, Jr.

Mr. Wilbur G. Robison, Jr.

Mr. Lauren G. Leighton

Mr. Raymond A. Rousseau

Mr. George H. Lenz

Mr. John L. Ruseau

Mr. Gary H. Lindberg

Mr. Larry L. Sale

Mr. Charles F. Longino, Jr.

Mr. Mario I. Sama

Mr. James F. Loucks, II

Mr. Marvin S. Schindler

Mr. Eugene A. Lovelace

Mr. Gareth L. Schmeling

Mr. John Marshall, Jr.

Mr. Arthur Schulman

Mr. Donald L. Martin

Mr. William G. Shenkir

Mr. Robert J. Mattauch

Mr. W. Cullen Sherwood

Mr. Bennett T. McCallum

Mr. Robert A. Smoak

Mr. Frank M. McMillan

Mr. Larry E. Snyder

Mr. David B. Meisel

Mr. Ralph J. Stoudt, Jr.

Mr. Michael L. Mezey

Mr. Alton L. Taylor

Mr. John H. Moore

Miss Elizabeth C. Thomas

Mr. W. Bedford Moore, III

Mr. Joseph F. Thomas, Jr.

Mr. David B. Morris

Mr. Hernan Vidal

Mr. David I. Morris

Mr. Jennings L. Wagoner, Jr.

Mr. Jeffrey B. Morton

Mr. Don L. Walker

Mr. Fredrik A. Muller

Mr. John K. Walsh

Mr. Sang B. Nam

Mr. Harold N. Ward

Mr. Kurt O. Olsson

Mr. Hans-Jurgen Weber

Mr. John A. Oppelt

Miss Eleanore C. Westhead

Mr. Gary A. Orfield

Mr. Thomas L. Wheelen

Mr. Clinton E. Parker

Mr. Edward J. White

Miss Elizabeth A. Parker

Miss Mary E. Whitney

Mr. Edward A. Parrish, Jr.

Mrs. Viola Winner

Mr. Robert H. Pate

Mr. David C. Wood

Mr. John M. Pierce

Mr. H. John Wood, III

Mr. David Powell

Mr. Robert S. Wood

Mr. Donald E. Ramirez

Mr. Marcus O. Workman

Mr. Edward J. Rinalducci

Mr. John V. Yanik

Mr. Philip H. Zoldester

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Dr. Ernst O. Attinger, Professor of Physiology and of Biomedical Engineering, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Ernest L. Folk, III, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Dr. Gerald Goldstein, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and of Microbiology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 January 1969.Mr. Alexander B. Horniman, Assistant Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Frederick T. Kain, Jr., Lecturer in Commerce, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Graham Lilly, Assistant Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mrs. Gail S. Marshall, Acting Assistant Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Jerry L. Mashaw, Assistant Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mr. John N. Moore, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mr. William H. Seawell, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Werner K. Sensbach, Lecturer in Architecture, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Albert R. Turnbull, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Charles Whitebread, Assistant Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Mason Willrich, Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Calvin Woodard, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.

Faculty Salaries

The following resolution was adopted: (1) RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 February 1969, the session salaries of the following associate professors shall be increased $500, and the session salaries of the following assistant professors shall be increased $400:Associate Professors:Mr. Melvin W. AylorMr. John L. GainerMr. Robert T. BarbeeMr. Joseph E. GibsonMr. R. Edward Barker, Jr.Mr. Charles H. GiffenMr. James H. BashMr. Earl A. GlosserMr. William F. BeazerMr. Samuel J. Goldstein, Jr.Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Jr.Mr. Luther Y. GoreMr. Neil H. Borden, Jr.Mr. John GrahamMr. John W. BoringMr. Russell N. GrimesMr. E. Roger Boyle, Jr.Mr. Edgar J. Gunter, Jr.Mr. Ralph C. BralleyMr. John F. HahnMr. William L. BreitMr. John S. HornerMr. Vittorio E. CelliMr. Raymond C. HeidloffMr. James S. ConstantineMr. T. Graham HerefordMr. Gerald CookMr. James N. HoltzMr. Everett U. CrosbyMr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr.Mr. Leonard T. CurtisMr. C. Alan HutchinsonMr. Douglas T. Day, IIIMr. Fulvio A. IachettaMr. Bascom S. Deaver, Jr.Mr. Milton JacobsonMr. Robert T. DenommeMr. Richard L. JenningsMr. Robert DolanMr. Morris W. JonesMr. Lionel R. DuisitMr. David C. JordanMr. Paul S. DulaneyMr. Charles R. KautMr. Robert L. EllisonMr. Matthias E. KayhoeMr. Ralph EisenbergMr. Hugh P. KellyMr. Richard T. EppinkMr. James L. KellyMr. Ernest H. ErnMr. Arthur C. KirschMiss Jean C. ErvinMr. Edward A. KolodziejMr. Robert R. FairMr. Shiv S. KumarMr. Frank E. FloraMr. Hugh S. LandesMr. Bryant C. FreemanMr. David W. LewisMr. Lembit U. LillelehtMrs. Willie Lee RoseMr. Peter W. LowMr. James L. RovnyakMr. Gustav D. MagnusonMr. John A. SandersonMr. Stanislaw J. Makielski, Jr.Mr. Charles F. SargentMr. Wendall E. MalbonMr. Antonin ScaliaMr. Marcus B. MallettMr. Alexander SedgwickMr. James E. Mann, Jr.Mr. Donald H. ShoemakerMr. Samuel P. MaroneyMr. Jerry G. ShortMr. Nathaniel G. F. MartinMr. Paul S. ShoupMr. George B. MatthewsMr. William W. SihlerMr. Ernest C. Mead, Jr.Mr. James G. SimmondsMr. Charles O. MeibergMr. Lawrence A. SimpsonMr. DeForest Mellon, Jr.Mr. Edward R. SlaughterMr. John F. MesingerMr. Clyde R. SmithMr. Dale R. MetcalfMr. John L. Snook, Jr.Mr. Ralph C. MinehartMr. Stanley E. SobottkaMr. Edward V. MochelMr. John W. StewartMr. Douglas G. MookMr. Richard J. SundbergMr. Bernard A. MorinMr. George B. Thomas, Jr.Mr. Harold S. Morton, Jr.Mr. Ertle ThompsonMr. Joseph J. Murray, Jr.Mr. James S. TuleyMiss Mary Ann MacDougallMr. Theodore TurnerMr. George A. McAlpineMr. William L. VeltonMr. Woodford D. McClellanMr. Wayne A. WallaceMr. Fred C. McCormickMr. Paul B. WalterMr. Roger OrkinMr. David W. WeissMr. Eugene C. Paige, Jr.Mr. Henry K. WhiteMr. Carlo PellicciaMr. Thomas R. White, Jr.Mr. Charles G. Reid, Jr.Mr. D. Alan WilliamsMr. Donald L. ReidMr. Thomas G. WilliamsonMr. James L. RiopelMr. Anthony WinnerMr. Rogers C. RitterMr. Theodore R. F. WrightMr. Oscar R. RodigMr. David C. Yalden-ThomsonMr. William G. RoseMr. Ricardo N. ZapataMr. Klaus O. ZiockAssistant Professors:Mr. Richard R. AbidinMr. Fred A. DiehlMr. Charles C. AlexanderMiss Caroline DinegarMr. W. Lester S. AndrewsMr. Alistair M. DuckworthMr. Harry T. AntrimMr. Charles F. DunklMr. James A. ArnoldMr. Nicholas C. EdsallMr. Alfred A. ArthMr. William A. ElwoodMr. Roger J. BainMr. Kenneth G. ElzingaMr. J. Taylor BeardMr. James W. EnglandMr. Donald E. BeckMr. Max D. EvansMr. Phillip J. BestMr. George L. FalkenhagenMr. Thomas W. BestMr. Samuel S. FisherMr. Rolland A. BowersMr. David H. FlahertyMr. Charles B. BradenMr. William O. FreithalerMiss Jeanette A. BrownMr. Charles L. FryMr. James D. BrydenMr. Donald K. Fry, Jr.Mr. Herbert M. Burks, Jr.Mr. Reginald H. GarrettMr. James T. CargileMr. Omer A. Gianniny, Jr.Mr. Francis A. CareyMr. Billy J. GilpinMr. Charles S. ChenMr. Herbert O. GollerMr. James F. ChildressMr. Leigh E. GrosenickMr. John E. ChristopherMr. Peter HackettMr. Ronald E. ClapperMr. James G. HagenMr. Roger H. ClarkMr. Kenneth R. HallMr. Alton K. ClementMr. James A. HardellMr. Christopher CollinsMr. Wesley L. HarrisMr. Raymond J. CormierMr. Willard W. HarrisonMr. James A. D. CoxMr. Marvin J. HomzieMr. Thomas V. CzarnowskiMr. Alan B. HowardMr. Leopold Damrosch, Jr.Mr. James S. HowlandMr. Donald A. DanielsonMr. Donald F. HuntMr. Frederick DavidsonMr. Mu S. JhonMr. Thomas H. DawsonMr. Jerry L. JohnsonMr. Benjamin A. DeGraffMr. Joseph KettMr. Aime S. DeReggiMr. Harold H. KolbMr. G. Siegfried KutterMr. Alan I. RitterMr. F. Duane LamkinMr. John T. RobertsMr. K. Edward Lay, Jr.Mr. Wilbur G. Robison, Jr.Mr. Lauren G. LeightonMr. Raymond A. RousseauMr. George H. LenzMr. John L. RuseauMr. Gary H. LindbergMr. Larry L. SaleMr. Charles F. Longino, Jr.Mr. Mario I. SamaMr. James F. Loucks, IIMr. Marvin S. SchindlerMr. Eugene A. LovelaceMr. Gareth L. SchmelingMr. John Marshall, Jr.Mr. Arthur SchulmanMr. Donald L. MartinMr. William G. ShenkirMr. Robert J. MattauchMr. W. Cullen SherwoodMr. Bennett T. McCallumMr. Robert A. SmoakMr. Frank M. McMillanMr. Larry E. SnyderMr. David B. MeiselMr. Ralph J. Stoudt, Jr.Mr. Michael L. MezeyMr. Alton L. TaylorMr. John H. MooreMiss Elizabeth C. ThomasMr. W. Bedford Moore, IIIMr. Joseph F. Thomas, Jr.Mr. David B. MorrisMr. Hernan VidalMr. David I. MorrisMr. Jennings L. Wagoner, Jr.Mr. Jeffrey B. MortonMr. Don L. WalkerMr. Fredrik A. MullerMr. John K. WalshMr. Sang B. NamMr. Harold N. WardMr. Kurt O. OlssonMr. Hans-Jurgen WeberMr. John A. OppeltMiss Eleanore C. WestheadMr. Gary A. OrfieldMr. Thomas L. WheelenMr. Clinton E. ParkerMr. Edward J. WhiteMiss Elizabeth A. ParkerMiss Mary E. WhitneyMr. Edward A. Parrish, Jr.Mrs. Viola WinnerMr. Robert H. PateMr. David C. WoodMr. John M. PierceMr. H. John Wood, IIIMr. David PowellMr. Robert S. WoodMr. Donald E. RamirezMr. Marcus O. WorkmanMr. Edward J. RinalducciMr. John V. YanikMr. Philip H. Zoldester(2) AND RESOLVED FURTHER by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 February 1969 and with the approval of the Provost, the session salaries of all faculty members of the School of Nursing so approved shall be increased one step.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Charles S. Borden, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Dentistry), effective 15 January 1969, to devote full time to private practice.Mr. Subrata K. Gangopadhy, Instructor in Economics, effective 1 December 1968, to return to India because of the death of his father.Mr. J. Bruce Havighurst, Associate Professor of Law, effective 31 January 1969, because of illness.Mr. Richard S. Mitchell, Acting Chairman, Department of Geology, effective 31 January 1969, to devote full time as Professor of Geology.Dr. Alfred A. D. Moore, Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective 31 January 1969, because of commitments in Norfolk.Mr. Bruce A. Rosenberg, Assistant Professor of English, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at Pennsylvania State University.Mr. Walter A. Schier, Assistant Professor of Physics, effective 31 January 1969, to accept a position at Lowell Technical Institute.Mr. Michael S. West as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, effective 30 June 1969, for personal reasons.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, the President announced the following appointment: Colonel James P. Robertson as Professor of Air Science, for three years, effective August 1969.

The following appointments were also announced: Mr. Douglas W. Alden as Chairman, Department of Romance Languages and General Linguistics, for two years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Dietrich Bodenstein as Chairman, Department of Biology, for four years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. John W. Boring as Assistant Director, Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective 1 August 1969.Mr. Michael S. Caldwell as Associate Dean for Research and Instruction, School of Education, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. William R. Carriker as Chairman, Department of Special Education, for four years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Alan L. Caspar as Acting Director, Blandy Farm, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Glen L. Dunlap as Assistant Dean for Administration, Graduate School of Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 August 1969.Mr. Robert L. Ellison as Chairman, Department of Geology, for three years, effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Guy Estes as Director, Seward Forest, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Thomas J. Gates as Assistant Director, Counseling Center, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. William J. Hargis, Jr., as Chairman, Department of Marine Science, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Warren D. Knapp as Director, Financial Aid to Students, for the period 15 December 1968 through 30 June 1973.Mr. Clifford M. Siegel as Acting Chairman, Department of Electrical Engineering, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969.Mr. T. Braxton Woody as Assistant Dean of the College, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. David C. Yalden-Thomson as Acting Chairman, Department of Philosophy, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969.

FACULTY SALARY SCALEGeneral Faculty Salary Scale Effective 1 September 1969
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rank

Beginning Step

Increment

Professor

$15,000

$1,000

Associate Professor

12,000

750

Assistant Professor\* \*Interval - 12 Months

10,000

500

Instructor

7,600

400

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the general faculty salary scale as set forth below be and it is hereby approved, effective 1 September 1969:General Faculty Salary Scale Effective 1 September 1969RankBeginning StepIncrementProfessor$15,000$1,000Associate Professor12,000750Assistant Professor\* \*Interval - 12 Months 10,000500Instructor7,600400

Interval - 12 Months

REPORT ON RESEARCH POLICY AFTER RETIREMENT
------------------------------------------

The President reported on the University's research policy for faculty members following their retirement.

REPORT ON SESQUICENTENNIAL MATTERS
----------------------------------

The President reported on the present status of the Sesquicentennial celebration.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program.

RESOLUTION OF THANKS TO MR. AND MRS. HENDERSON HEYWARD
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Mr. and Mrs. Henderson Heyward of Fox Haven Farm in Albemarle County have given a parcel of land at the intersection of Deerpath and Canterbury Roads to the University of Virginia;WHEREAS this is a most important gift to the University as it will make possible a direct road connection linking the University and the Birdwood property;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we express to Mr. and Mrs. Henderson Heyward our sincere thanks for their generosity and direct the Secretary to transmit a copy of this resolution to them as a mark of our deep appreciation.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$ 54,070.70

Free service to Counties and Cities

202,310.98

\-----------

Total

$256,381.68

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1656, 1657, 1659, 1660, 1669, 1670, 1673, and 1674, as recommended by it, consisting of the following:Bad debts, etc.$ 54,070.70Free service to Counties and Cities202,310.98-----------Total$256,381.68

LEGISLATION AT 1969 SPECIAL SESSION OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Rector be and he is hereby requested to approach the Governor, accompanied by such persons as he may select, to inquire into the possibility of obtaining the Governor's consent for the introduction of certain legislation affecting the University in the forthcoming special session of the General Assembly.

VEPCO EASEMENT
--------------

The President reported that Virginia Electric and Power has requested an easement over Carr's Hill in order to provide electric service to the new Architecture School and Library.

After discussion, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED, that in accordance with Section 23-77.2 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby approves of the conveyance to Virginia Electric and Power Company of an easement to provide electric service to the Architecture School and Library. A more complete description of such easement shall be set forth in the instrument of conveyance.RESOLVED FURTHER, that the President or Comptroller of the University of Virginia, be and either of them is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, an instrument granting such easement to Virginia Electric and Power Company, and that the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of this Board, be and either of them is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to affix the corporate seal of the University of Virginia to such instrument and to attest the same; provided, however, that such instrument when submitted for execution shall have been approved by the University's Special Counsel who is also authorized to take appropriate action to complete this conveyance.

VISITATIONS (PARIETAL RULES) AND SELF-GOVERNMENT IN THE DORMITORIES
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reviewed action by the Board at its meeting of 13 October 1967 approving a set of parietal rules for the dormitories at the University. These rules were modified by the Board at its meeting of 7 June 1968. The Student Council proposed additional changes and at the Board's meeting of 14 December 1968 the President was instructed to obtain additional information concerning the proposals and to report back to the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee at the February meeting. In the interim, the Student Council forwarded to the President a resolution adopted at a meeting of 6 February 1969 "that the Student Council propose to the Board of Visitors that the residents in each living area be empowered to formulate their own parietal regulations, subject to final approval by the Student Council." At the President's direction, Dean Williams and other members of the administration have worked with Student Council representatives and other members of the student body in proposing changes to the parietal rules and the determination and enforcement of such rules. Dean Williams' recommendations in the form of a report entitled "Visitations and Self-Government in the Dormitories" was presented to the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee at its meeting of 14 February. Upon recommendation of that Committee, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that all prior action of the Board regarding parietal rules (hereinafter referred to as visitation hours) shall be rescinded at such time as the President may notify the Secretary of the Board that he has assumed the authority over all matters pertaining to visitation; andRESOLVED FURTHER that upon such notification to the Secretary, the authority over visitation hours shall be thenceforth in the hands of the President. Without limiting this authority, the President can, at his discretion (a) delegate the determination and enforcement of visitation policies to student governments where appropriate student governments exist; and (b) cause visitation hours proposed by student groups to be approved by the Student Council before becoming effective; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the Board hereby reserves to the President the unrestricted right to change either prospectively or retroactively all matters pertaining to visitation as set forth above, as he may from time to time deem appropriate.

RATIFICATION OF THE ACTIONS OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the determination of the Finance Committee that faculty mortgages should be considered a part of the fixed income portion of the Consolidated Endowment Funds and requesting State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts, at propitious times, to dispose of other fixed interest securities held in Account No. 1868 be and the same hereby is approved, ratified, and confirmed;RESOLVED FURTHER that the Finance Committee is authorized and directed to develop a method of releasing the funds invested in faculty mortgages by borrowing against said mortgages or selling the same in order that a more effective investment use may be made of such funds. To this end, said Committee is authorized to take such action as it may deem requisite or necessary, including, without limitation, the employment of counsel and, if need be, to seek amendatory legislation;RESOLVED FURTHER that the Finance Committee is hereby authorized and directed to transfer an amount not exceeding 5% of the Consolidated Endowment Funds presently held in Account no. 1868 at State-Planters Bank in which faculty mortgages are deemed to be included, to an account to be created at State-Planters Bank to be known as the "Special Situations Account." The investments in said "Special Situations Account" shall be made by State-Planters Bank and thereafter written approval of the members of the Finance Committee shall be obtained; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the action of the Finance Committee in undertaking to make up from realized capital gains any loss of endowment income resulting from the transfer of funds to the "Special Situations Account" is hereby approved, ratified, and confirmed.

ADMISSION OF WOMEN TO THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCESStatement of Edwin L. Kendig, Jr. 18 February 1969Statement of J. Sloan Kuykendall 17 February 1969REASONSStatement of William S. Potter 18 February 1969Statement of J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr. February 21, 1969
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As provided in the minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors on 14 December 1968, at which time the Board stated that it would "act upon the principles of the \[Woody Committee Report\] at the February meeting," the Board proceeded to a discussion of the question. The Rector noted that the Educational Policy Committee on 14 February 1969 had heard statements on the proposal from interested alumni and from students and student leaders. The Rector noted further that the Committee on Educational Policy had recessed its meeting on 14 February until 9:00 a.m. on Saturday morning, 15 February 1969, at which time the Committee voted to report the matter to the full Board without recommendation. After a lengthy discussion the following resolutions were adopted: (1) Resolution on the Admission of Women Adopted by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia on 15 February 1969WHEREAS at its meeting on 8 April 1967 the Board of Visitors authorized the President "to conduct a study to determine whether there is a need for the admission of women to the College of Arts and Sciences at Charlottesville";WHEREAS the Special University Committee on the Admission of Women to the College of Arts and Sciences at Charlottesville, which was appointed by President Shannon to conduct the study under the chairmanship of Mr. T. Braxton Woody, recommended in its Report to the President in November 1968 "that present restrictions on the admission of women to the College of Arts and Sciences at Charlottesville be rescinded";WHEREAS the Board at its meeting on 14 December 1968, after considering the Report of the Woody Committee, directed the President to conduct a study of the feasibility of the admission of women, such study to be presented at the next meeting of the Board;WHEREAS the President subsequently requested the Standing Committee on the Future of the University to "study the feasibility and means of admitting women to the College of Arts and Sciences at Charlottesville," which Committee presented a preliminary Report to the President on 31 January 1969, a copy of which Report was mailed to each member of the Board;WHEREAS the Report of the Committee on the Future of the University set forth in essence the following proposals for the consideration of the President and the Board:A. Should the Board act to revise the policy on admission of women to the College, it should act simply to remove the restrictions on their admission to all undergraduate schools of the University.B. If the Board proceeds with such action, it adopt a set of general principles as University policy to guide the administrative officers and faculty in planning the enrollment of women.C. The following general principles are submitted for consideration:(1) Any change in the University's policy regarding the admission of women and their education should be implemented in a manner consistent with the University's Statement of Institutional Purpose adopted by the Board of Visitors on 5 June 1964.(2) The admission and enrollment of women in the College and other undergraduate schools should be phased into the projected growth of the University in an orderly and carefully planned fashion.(3) The ultimate goal should be a program which preserves the traditions of the University and which provides the optimum educational experience for the students within this framework. During the initial transition period, however, the enrollment of women must be carefully phased in such a fashion that the following objectives are maintained:(a) The number of qualified male applicants admitted should not be curtailed as a result of the admission of women.(b) The faculty and facilities of the University should not be burdened to the extent that the effectiveness of the educational program is impaired. In particular, an adequate lead time must be provided in the recruitment of such additional faculty and staff members as may be required.(4) The undergraduate coeducational operation which ultimately develops should be one, as with the graduate coeducational operation long in effect, under which the existing policy regarding the enrollment of out-of-state students is maintained. During the transition period, however, it may be necessary to give preference to women who are Virginians or even local residents.(5) The existing regulations regarding the admission of men to the undergraduate schools shall apply to the admission of women.WHEREAS the Legal Adviser of the University has furnished a legal opinion to the Board and the President that there is no statutory authority preventing the admission of women;WHEREAS the President has recommended to the Board that the recommendations of the Special Committee and the Committee on the Future of the University be approved;AND WHEREAS the Board is fully cognizant that the admission of women to the College of Arts and Sciences brings with it many complexities and ramifications in many areas including faculty, admission, facilities, and finances; that such a decision will institute some changes in the nature of the University; and that the Board is aware that careful implementation of the policy is of the utmost importance;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia:(1) That the restrictions heretofore placed on the admission of women to the undergraduate schools at Charlottesville be and they are hereby removed, subject to the conditions set forth below;(2) That the Board directs the President to prepare for submission to the Board not later than its meeting on 3 October 1969 a plan for the admission of women to the College of Arts and Sciences and the undergraduate schools at Charlottesville to become effective on 1 September 1970, such plan to be formulated generally in accordance with the principles recommended in the Report of the Committee on the Future of the University;(3) That in the formulation of the plan consideration be given to the impact of the admission of women to undergraduate divisions at Charlottesville upon other public women's colleges in Virginia and especially upon Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia; and(4) That the President include in the University's Biennial Budget Request to the Governor and the General Assembly for 1970-72 the funds necessary to implement the plan.(2) Resolution Relating to the Admission of Student's Wives and of Wives and Daughters of Staff MembersRESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective for the academic year 1969-1970, the wives of students and the wives and daughters of staff members shall be eligible for consideration for admission to the College of Arts and Sciences. Completed applications must be received no later than 1 April 1969. Admission shall be only to the upper division (third and fourth years) of the College of Arts and Sciences. All applicants must have successfully completed at least two years of college level work at an accredited institution and must satisfy existing requirements governing transfer students in the various schools.

Following the adoption of the resolutions, certain members of the Board requested and received permission to prepare a statement explaining their votes for inclusion in the permanent Minutes.

These statements are as follows:

Mr. Weldon Cooper

Pavilion VIII, East Lawn

University of Virginia

Charlottesville, Virginia 22903

Dear Weldon:

As requested, I am submitting for the record my reason for casting a negative ballot on the question of coeducation at the University of Virginia. The resolution was, of course, proposed and adopted at the February, 1969, meeting of the Board.

My reason is as follows: Mr. Thomas Martin, president of the Board of Managers, appeared before the Committee on Educational Policy and requested that action on the matter of coeducation be deferred until the alumni of the University could be polled; it was and is my feeling that this courtesy should have been extended to Mr. Martin and to the alumni.

ELK:jg

Mr. Weldon Cooper

Secretary

Board of Visitors

University of Virginia

Charlottesville, Virginia

Dear Weldon:

I enclose herewith a statement of my reasons for voting against the resolution proposed by the Administration for the admission of women to the Undergraduate School of the University of Virginia. You will recall that the Members of the Board were requested to state in writing their views respecting this resolution and thus save some time and trouble for you.

I enjoyed, of course, seeing you and Julia over the weekend and I am looking forward to our visit with you again in Fredericksburg.

With kind regards, I am

Enclosure

The attachment to Mr. Kuykendall's letter is as follows:

I herewith state my reasons for opposing and voting against the proposed resolution calling for a change of a long-standing policy of the University of Virginia respecting the admission of women to the Undergraduate Schools at the University. My reasons for opposing this resolution are briefly stated as follows:

(1) Notwithstanding our general commitment to take some action at the February meeting of the Board respecting this problem, I feel that the Alumni of the University should have been afforded a further opportunity to present their views. It is my feeling that the Alumni should have been individually circularized and that specific inquiry should have been made regarding the view of each alumnus.

(2) After having an opportunity to study and give thought to the views expressed by interested Alumni I would then have been prepared to finally determine the best course for the University with respect to this problem. The Board was called upon to take action upon a resolution that would have required the University to depart from a longstanding and highly cherished tradition and I would not have favored such action unless I was persuaded that such a course would be to the best interest of the University. I had not reached a conclusion at the February meeting.

(3) It is my view that, if women are admitted to the Undergraduate Schools at the University, there should be no restriction on admission other than the same restrictions imposed upon male applicants for admission. I feel that the Board should have been limited to the question of whether policy should be changed, and if women are to be admitted the determination of who should be admitted should be left entirely to the Dean of Admissions and his advisors. I feel reasonably confident that if the University establishes a policy of maintaining a fixed ratio of male students to female students the University may be in the posture of discriminating and there may be trouble in the courts later.

Mr. Weldon Cooper

Pavilion VIII, East Lawn

University of Virginia

Charlottesville, Virginia 22903

Dear Weldon:

At the meeting of the Board of Visitors on February 15 persons who voted in the negative on the resolution for the admission of women were instructed to write you the reasons for their negative vote. I voted in the negative for three reasons:

First: I am not persuaded of either the need or the desirability for the admission of women to the College of Arts and Sciences at Charlottesville.

Second: I have not been sufficiently informed as to the feasibility of the proposed program, or of the method of implementing it.

Third: I am convinced that no adequate opportunity has been given the alumni to express themselves on the subject.

I will appreciate it very much if the above reasons are set forth in the minutes of the meeting.

WSP/mm

Mr. Weldon Cooper, Secretary

Board of Visitors

Pavilion VIII, East Lawn

University of Virginia

Charlottesville, Virginia 22903

Dear Weldon:

I believe the attached fairly represents my views which I would like to have recorded in the minutes.

Warm regards.

Always sincerely,

J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr.

Chairman of the Board

JHWJr:mpw

Enc.

The attachment to Mr. Wilkinson's letter is as follows:

Visitor Wilkinson stated that he was prepared to vote in principle for co-education. He was, however, unwilling to vote at this meeting to inaugurate co-education in the absence of adequate feasibility studies. He stated that the University was seeking to move forward on many fronts and that inevitably there had to be priorities. These could not be wisely set in the absence of good estimates of the cost of co-education. Accordingly, he voted "No" on the resolution.

February 21, 1969

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Miss Nancy Cole Dosch as Assistant Instructor in Health, Physical Education and Recreation, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of .Mr. Richard E. Grove as Visiting Professor of Computer Science, part-time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of .

ADMISSION OF MEN AS DAY STUDENTS AT MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE SUMMER SESSION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Chairman of the Mary Washington College Committee, Mr. Walker proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective with the opening of the 1969 Summer Session, Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to admit men for credit to the Summer Session as non-residential (day) students.

DEED OF MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE PROPERTY TO DEPARTMENT OF HIGHWAYS
------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the Virginia Department of Highways proposes to construct, operate and maintain a portion of Route 3 over a small tract of land owned by the University and occupied by Mary Washington College at Fredericksburg. The University has been requested to convey to the Department the tract of land and accompanying rights of way necessary for this project.

After discussion, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED, that in accordance with Section 2.1-8 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby approves of the conveyance to the Virginia Department of Highways of a certain tract of land and accompanying rights of way for the construction, operation, and maintenance of Route 3, State Highway Project 0003-111-101, RW 201. A more complete description of the property, which is currently occupied by Mary Washington College at Fredericksburg, shall be set forth in the deed of conveyance.RESOLVED FURTHER, that the President or Comptroller of the University of Virginia, be and either of them is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a deed of conveyance granting such property to the Virginia Department of Highways, and that the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of this Board, be and either of them is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to affix the corporate seal of the University of Virginia to such deed and to attest the same; provided, however, that such deed when submitted for execution shall have been approved by the University's Special Counsel who is also authorized to take appropriate action to complete this conveyance.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Clinch Valley College:Mr. John G. Blackburn, Jr., as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Jacques E. Moisson as Associate Professor of French, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Richard A. Davidson, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mrs. Bonnie P. Elosser, Lecturer in English, at a session salary of effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Paul D. Elosser, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Edward L. Henson, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 February 1969.Mr. William J. Hooper, Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Miss Christiane F. Jaunais, Lecturer in Modern Languages, at a session salary of effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Judd W. Lewis, Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of effective 1 February 1969.Mrs. Lois P. Lowry, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Michael E. O'Donnell, Instructor in French, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Edwin H. Pleasants, Associate Professor of Modern Foreign Language, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Augusto A. Portuondo, Instructor in Spanish, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mrs. Lona W. Roberts, Assistant Professor of Biology, one-half time, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Thomas D. Robinson, Associate Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1969.Mrs. Betty S. Wham, Instructor in English, at a session salary of effective 1 February 1969.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Mr. Stanley L. Cohen as Lecturer in Psychology, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of Mr. Raymond G. LePage as Lecturer in French, one-half time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of Mr. Harry W. Peter as Lecturer in English, one-half time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of Mr. John P. Soder as Lecturer in History, one-half time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of .Mrs. Carmen R. Upchurch as Lecturer in French, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that all faculty members on the payroll September 1968 of George Mason College shall receive a one-step increase in salary, effective 1 February 1969, in accordance with Item 752, 1968 Appropriation Act, authorized by the Governor on 24 May 1968.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Miss Eleanor Souville, Assistant Professor of French, effective 31 January 1969, to be married.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Lorin A. Thompson as Chancellor, George Mason College, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.

NEW DEGREE PROGRAMS AT GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that George Mason College of the University of Virginia shall offer the degrees of Bachelor of Arts with Major in Economics and Bachelor of Arts with Major in Psychology.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE TUITION AND FEE SCHEDULE
---------------------------------------------

Virginia Students

Out-of-State Students

Application Fee

$ 10.00

$ 10.00

Tuition:

Twelve to sixteen semester hours (per semester)

240.00

600.00

Per semester above 16

16.00

40.00

Part-time students (up to 12 semester hours per semester)

20.00

50.00

Comprehensive Fee (per semester)

17.00\* \*Students enrolled for six semester hours or less are required to pay one-half of the Comprehensive Fee.

17.00\*

Laboratory Breakage Deposit (per semester)

5.00\*\* \*\*The balance in the student's account for laboratory breakage deposit will be refunded by mail to the student at the end of the semester upon application to the Business Office.

5.00\*\*

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition and fee schedule for George Mason College as set forth below be and it is hereby approved, effective at the beginning of the 1969 Summer Session:Virginia StudentsOut-of-State StudentsApplication Fee$ 10.00$ 10.00Tuition:Twelve to sixteen semester hours (per semester)240.00600.00Per semester above 1616.0040.00Part-time students (up to 12 semester hours per semester)20.0050.00Comprehensive Fee (per semester)17.00\* \*Students enrolled for six semester hours or less are required to pay one-half of the Comprehensive Fee. 17.00\*Laboratory Breakage Deposit (per semester)5.00\*\* \*\*The balance in the student's account for laboratory breakage deposit will be refunded by mail to the student at the end of the semester upon application to the Business Office. 5.00\*\*AND RESOLVED FURTHER that, effective at the beginning of the 1969 Summer Session, the Library Fee of $5.00 for the Summer Session be and it is hereby changed to a Comprehensive Fee of $5.00.

Students enrolled for six semester hours or less are required to pay one-half of the Comprehensive Fee.

The balance in the student's account for laboratory breakage deposit will be refunded by mail to the student at the end of the semester upon application to the Business Office.

HAMPTON ROADS REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERRESIGNATION
-----------------------------------------------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Richard R. Giroux, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, effective 31 January 1969, to enter private industry.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:15 p.m.