Board of Visitors minutes (1972) October 13, 1972
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 13, 1972

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA October 13, 1972
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:54 p.m. on October 13, 1972 in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, Mrs. E. Parker Brown, Robert P. Buford, Warren B. French, Jr., W. Wright Harrison, William E. Leggett, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, Brownie E. Polly, Jr., William S. Potter, Donald E. Santarelli, Hugh Scott, and J. Harvie Wilkinson, III. Absent: J. Hartwell Harrison and William L. Zimmer, III. Messrs. Neill H. Alford, Jr., Vincent Shea, David A. Shannon, and Edwin Crawford were also present throughout the meeting.

The minutes of the meeting of June 2, 1972, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

DEATH OF RICHARD S. CROSS
-------------------------

The Secretary announced the death on August 27, 1972 of Richard S. Cross, a member of the Board of Visitors from March 1, 1963 to February 28, 1971.

DEATH OF ALFRED DICKINSON BARKSDALE
-----------------------------------

The Secretary announced the death on August 16, 1972 of Alfred Dickinson Barksdale, a member of the Board of Visitors from March 1, 1946 to February 28, 1956.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Miss Margaret N. Ashby as Instructor in Portuguese, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Carl I. Aspliden as Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Robert A. Bageant as Instructor in Anesthesiology, for one year, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Donald W. Ball as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $Mr. W. Scott Bauman as Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $Mr. Michael J. Bednar as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Stanley Berent as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology), for the period September 1, 1972, through June 30, 1974, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Edward M. Bloomberg as Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Maxwell Bloomfield as Lecturer in History, for one semester, part-time, effective February 1, 1973, at a salary of $.Miss Mary Blount as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Robert M. Carey as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Edward T. Cline, Jr., as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. James W. Cole, III, as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period April 16, 1972, through June 30, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Herbert E. Coolidge as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. Andrew J. Costello, Jr. as Instructor in Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Robert W. Covert as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Jon C. Crocker as Associate Professor of Anthropology, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Ivan K. Crosby as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Charles P. Davis as Instructor, Alderman Library, for the period August 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Becky H. Epes as Instructor in Pediatrics, for the period June 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Robert M. Epsein as Professor of Anesthesiology, one-half time, effective June 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $; full time, effective October 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Martin J. Faigel as Instructor, Alderman Library, for the period August 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Lloyd A. Fallers as Professor of Anthropology, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. John S. Fisher as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. William C. Flanagan, Jr., as Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Charles M. Flynn as Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Charles L. Frieden as Instructor, Alderman Library, for the period August 14, 1972, through June 30, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Joseph A. Fry as Instructor in History, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a salary of $.Mr. Roger N. Gaunt as Lecturer in Commerce, for one year, effective August 1, 1972, at a session salary of $15,000, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $500 for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.Mr. John E. Gibson as Commonwealth Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective July 1, 1973, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $4,600 for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.Lieutenant James R. Grant, III, as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective September 1972.Dr. Robert K. Greenlaw as Associate Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective July 16, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Joseph M. Grzybowski as Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Phillip Harth as Visiting Professor of English, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a salary of $.Mrs. Sydney Harth as Lecturer in English, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a salary of $.Mr. Peter C. Healy as Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Janice R. Hellman as Instructor, for the period September 1, 1972 through August 31, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Miss Judith Henrickson as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. JoAnne K. Henry as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Marc E. Kellner as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Nabil A. Khabbaz as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Norman J. Knorr as Professor of Psychiatry, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $. Dr. Knorr served as Associate Professor from August 1970 through January 31, 1972.Mr. Charles J. Kovacs as Instructor in Pediatrics (Radiobiology), for one year, effective August 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. John M. Kramer as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, one-third time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Susan G. Landin as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective June 5, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Charles J. Loewenstein as Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. William J. Logan as Assistant Professor of Neurology and of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Miss Jean A. Martinson as Instructor, Medical Library, for the period June 15, 1972, through June 30, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Bruce W. Mattox as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Vernon A. McCart as Instructor, Alderman Library, for the period August 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Miss Sara J. McVicker as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective September 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Pilar Merrill as Instructor in Spanish, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Oscar L. Miller, Jr., as Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Dr. David B. Moga as Instructor in Orthopedics, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Costas Papatriantafillou as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Timothy A. Pasden as Instructor, Alderman Library, for the period August 7, 1972, through June 30, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Margaret H. Patteson as Instructor, Law Library, for one year, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Miss Sallyanne Payton as Lecturer in Law, part-time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1972, at a stipend of $.Mr. Larry G. Peacock as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Mary G. Porter as Lecturer in English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Volker T. Puppe as Visiting Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Robert A. Reid as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Meredith M. Richards as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Robert T. Rood as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for three academic years, effective February 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Frederick H. Schmidt as Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Ricardo B. Schwarz as Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Robert A. Seal as Instructor, Alderman Library, for the period August 21, 1972, through June 30, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Heraliwala L. Seneviratne as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. S. Murray Sherman as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective July 16, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. G. M. Silberhorn as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Henry A. Smith, III, as Assistant Professor of German, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Miss Susan J. Smith as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Larry G. Sneddon as Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Joan M. Spyker as Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. S. DeLacy Stith as Instructor in Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Ernest W. Sullins as Lecturer in Education, three-fourths time, for the period August 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973, at a salary of $Dr. Grace E. Suttle as Assistant Professor of Family and Community Medicine and of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. John F. Tedesco as Visiting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Paul Theroux as Lecturer in English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1972, at a salary of $.Mr. Dwaine M. Thomas as Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Miss Sybil R. Todd as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Janis G. Tuerk as Instructor in Pediatrics, one-half time, for one year, effective July 16, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Robin W. Weller as Visiting Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective June 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Richard L. Williams as Lecturer in Law, part-time, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a stipend of $.Miss Donna D. Wilson as Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Miss Delba Winthrop as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective February 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Bonnie C. Woodruff as Instructor in Nursing, for the period September 1, 1972, through August 31, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Laura A. Yeakel as Instructor in Chemistry, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.

ELECTION OF DR. THOMAS R. JOHNS, II, AS ALUMNI PROFESSOR OF NEUROLOGY
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Thomas R. Johns, II, be and he is hereby elected Alumni Professor of Neurology, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.

ELECTION OF DR. DAVID E. SMITH AS ALUMNI PROFESSOR OF PATHOLOGY
---------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. David E. Smith be and he is hereby elected Alumni Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MR. LAURENCE W. FREDRICK AS JOHN DOWNMAN HAMILTON PROFESSOR OF ASTRONOMY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Laurence W. Fredrick be and he is hereby elected John Downman Hamilton Professor of Astronomy, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF LIEUTENANT, j.g., LLOYD H. CARLL, III
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Lieutenant, j.g., Lloyd H. Carll, III, as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective July 1, 1972, as approved by the Board at its meeting on June 2, 1972, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF MISS EVELYN E. MILES
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Miss Evelyn E. Miles as Instructor in Speech, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, as approved by the Board at its meeting on June 2, 1972, be and it is hereby cancelled. Miss Miles has accepted a position at Hampton Institute.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Dr. Lester S. Adelman as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. James L. Allison as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Edmund Berkeley, Jr., as Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. David W. Bishop as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Orthodontics), part-time, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Clive Bradbeer as Associate Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Miss Susan L. Broaddus as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mrs. Lillie O. Chang as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. George A. Clum as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, (Psychology), for the period October 15, 1972, through June 30, 1975.Mr. Logan V. Cockrum as Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Stan S. Cooke as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. George Cooper, Jr., as Visiting Professor of Radiology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. Richard S. Crampton as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 16, 1972.Mr. Brian R. Duling as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. Clifford H. Fox as Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Howard L. Hamilton as Professor of Biology, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mrs. Phyllis S. Harrah as Assistant Professor of Nursing, one-half time, for one year, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $. Mrs. Harrah served as Assistant Professor from 1968 to 1970.Mr. Marcel Herbst as Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, one-fourth time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. Charles E. Hess as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. H. Cassius Higgins as Visiting Professor of Architecture and City Planning, for two months, effective October 1, 1972, and for one semester, effective February 1, 1973.Mr. Peter W. Holloway as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. David A. Horwitz as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Douglas P. Howard as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Ching-Hsien Huang as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. Robert A. Jahrsdoerfer as Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Robert G. Jones as Visiting Professor of Sociology, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Johnny Lee Junkins as Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for the period January 1, 1973, through June 30, 1975.Mr. Robert J. Kadner as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Joseph R. Kelly as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. Thomas J. Kenner as Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Miss Sue McCoy as Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. Robert E. McLaughlin as Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. W. Copley McLean as Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Michael B. McMahon as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. Cary N. Moon, Jr., as Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Robert C. Morris as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Frederick E. Nolting as Diplomat-in-Residence, for one academic year, part-time, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. Elsa P. Paulsen as Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Simon Pepper as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. Ed E. Perry as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, (Dentistry), for one year, effective June 1, 1972.Dr. Forrest W. Pitts as Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. Seymour Rabinowitz as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Leon Radzinowicz as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973.Mr. Herbert C. Richards as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Larry G. Richards as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. William H. Runge as Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, and Curator of Rare Books, for three academic years, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. Joel P. Schrank as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. Covie E. See as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, (Dentistry), for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. Robert F. Selden, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. Rajindar Singh as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Earl P. Smith as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. Marian K. Solowy as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Harold R. Strang as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. William Steinberg as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective October 1, 1972.Mr. Kendon L. Stubbs as Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, and Reference Librarian, for three academic years, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. T. Austin Sydnor, Jr., as Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. Charles D. Teates as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. John D. Trasco as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for one semester, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. Paul R. Van Ostenberg as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Dentistry), for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Don L. Walker as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. White M. Wallenborn as Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. William B. Wartman as Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. James A. White as Assistant Professor of Education for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. William C. White, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Clinical Psychology), for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mrs. Catherine H. Williamson as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Social Work), for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. John K. Wilson as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective October 1, 1972.Mr. Russell K. Yamazaki as Visiting Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective August 1, 1972.Dr. Alfred N. Yarbrough as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Plastic Surgery, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Miss Linda R. Berner, Instructor to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Edgar O. Olsen, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Miss Jean M. Scanlan, Instructor to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, JUNE 2, 1972
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the promotion of Dr. Jack C. Fisher to Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, as approved by the Board on June 2, 1972, be changed to read as follows:Dr. Jack C. Fisher, Instructor to Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.

CORRECTION IN THE PROMOTION OF MR. H. C. MIDELFORT
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the promotion of Mr. H. C. Erik Midelfort to Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1972, as approved by the Board on June 2, 1972, be changed to read as follows:Mr. H. C. Erik Midelfort, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. W. Scott Bauman, Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to complete two research projects now in process.Mr. Neil H. Borden, Jr., Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to serve as Visiting Professor at the Advanced Management Institute, Lausanne, Switzerland.Mr. Robert L. Ellison, Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, to carry out research.Mr. Ernest A. Gellhorn, Professor of Law, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to engage in research on problems of administrative discretion.Mr. Daniel J. Meador, James Monroe Professor of Law, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to serve as Project Director, Appellate Justice Project, National Center for State Courts.Mr. Loren D. Pitt, Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to visit the University of Southern California and Cornell University.Mr. Andrew T. P. Sammataro, Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to accept a teaching position at Oxford Polytechnic, England.Mr. William J. Serow, Lecturer in Business Administration, for two months, effective July 1, 1972, without pay, to serve on active duty in the U. S. Army.

CANCELLATION OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR MR. CHARLES S. CHEN
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the leave of absence granted Mr. Charles S. Chen, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, as approved by the Board on June 2, 1972, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CANCELLATION OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR MR. YUKON HUANG
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the leave of absence granted Mr. Yukon Huang, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1972, as approved by the Board on April 7, 1972, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Phillip J. Best, from Associate Professor of Psychology, to Associate Professor of Psychology and of Psychiatry, for three years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Allan G. Blunden, from Acting Assistant Professor of German, to Assistant Professor of German, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Terrence A. Boring, from Acting Assistant Professor of Classics, to Assistant Professor of Classics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $11,500.Mr. Warren L. Coats, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, to Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period June 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973.Mr. Daniel T. Devereux, from Acting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, to Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Miss Vesta L. Gordon, from Instructor, Alderman Library, to Instructor, Alderman Library, and Assistant Curator for Technical Services, for the period July 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973.Dr. James G. Kavanaugh, from Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and Pediatrics, for the period July 1, 1972 through June 30, 1974.Dr. Norman J. Knorr, from Professor of Psychiatry, to Professor of Psychiatry and of Plastic Surgery, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. Thomas W. Lamb, from Associate Professor of Physiology, to Associate Professor of Physiology, and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, and Associate Physician, Department of Student Health, for three years, effective August 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $22,125.Mr. Theodore J. Marr, from Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, to Assistant Professor of Speech, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. William M. Sheppe, Jr., from Associate Professor of Psychiatry, to Clinical Associate Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective August 1, 1972.Mr. Lynn B. Tipson, from Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, to Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. Robert L. Utley, from Instructor in Pediatrics, to Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics, for the period May 16, 1972, through June 30, 1973.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Dr. Robert G. Burney, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, at an annual salary of, $, effective January 1, 1973.Mr. Edgar A. Eldridge, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Robert C. Morris, Assistant Professor of Physics, at a session salary of $, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Robert A. Rutland, Professor and Editor of the Papers of James Madison, at an annual salary of $, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Vincent Shea, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at an annual salary of $32,500, effective July 1, 1972.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Louis A. Benevento, Assistant Professor of Physiology, effective August 31, 1972, to accept a new position at the University of Illinois.Mr. Michael L. Mezey, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective June 30, 1972, to accept another position.Dr. Albert W. Sparrow, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective August 31, 1972, to accept a position at Michigan.Mr. Richard C. Swartz, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, effective July 10, 1972, to accept a position with the Environmental Protection Agency, Washington.Mr. Joseph F. Thomas, Jr., Assistant Professor of Physics, effective August 31, 1972, to accept a position at Wright State University.Mr. Hernon Vidal, Assistant Professor of Spanish, effective June 30, 1972, to accept another position.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Dr. Harold Carron as Acting Chairman, Department of Anesthesiology, for two months, effective August 1, 1972.Mr. Herbert E. Coolidge as Assistant Director, Office of Institutional Analysis, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. Robert M. Epstein as Chairman, Department of Anesthesiology, for the period October 1, 1972, through June 30, 1977.Mr. John E. Gibson as Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for five years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Harold B. Haley as Associate Dean for Clinical Services-Roanoke, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mrs. Janice R. Hellman as Assistant Director of Career Planning and Placement, for the period September 1, 1972 through August 31, 1973.Mr. David B. Lawall as Acting Chairman, Department of Art, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973.Mr. Oscar L. Miller, Jr., as Chairman, Department of Biology, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. William W. Sihler as Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, Graduate School of Business Administration, for three years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. C. Ray Smith as Associate Dean for Administration, Graduate School of Business Administration, for three years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Nickolas J. Sojka as Director, Vivarium, for five years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Gordon M. Stewart as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. S. DeLacy Stith as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.

APPOINTMENT OF MR. NEILL H. ALFORD, JR., AS SPECIAL COUNSEL TO THE PRESIDENT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced the appointment of Mr. Neill H. Alford, Jr., as Special Counsel to the President, effective October 1, 1972.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Dennis W. Barnes as Associate Provost for Research, for four years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. A. J. G. Priest as Scholar-in-Residence, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.

DEATH OF MR. WALTER D. FLETCHER
-------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. ARTHUR K. DAVIS, JR.
---------------------------------

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program.

REPORT ON ADMISSIONS AND ENROLLMENT
-----------------------------------

The President reported that he expects the current semester's enrollment figure to reach no higher than 12,900. There will be further analysis to determine the factors resulting in the unexpected high rate of acceptance this year. Mr. Buford asked for an analysis of the reasons some upper class students did not return. The President advised that this study is already under way, and that it cannot be completed until the end of the late registration period. Preliminary indications reveal that women leave the University prior to graduation at a higher rate than men do. The President pointed out that some of the students who did not re-enroll in the fall had pre-registered and were expected. Mr. Lewis suggested that a preliminary "pre-registration fee" might improve our predictions. The President agreed to study that possibility.

REPORT ON REORGANIZATION OF THE GOVERNOR'S OFFICE
-------------------------------------------------

The President reviewed the establishment of the Governor's Cabinet. He placed special emphasis on the establishment of a Secretary of Education. Mr. Earl Shiflet, the first Secretary of Education, has expressed a desire to meet with the boards of visitors of the State institutions. It was agreed that Mr. Shiflet will be invited to the December 1972 meeting of the Board of Visitors.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$253,715.65

Free service to Counties and Cities

545,731.24

\----------

Total

$799,446.89

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules totaling $799,446.89, as recommended by it, consisting of the following:Bad debts$253,715.65Free service to Counties and Cities545,731.24----------Total$799,446.89

STATEMENT OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS CONCERNING THE FUTURE OF THE UNIVERSITY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

An ad hoc committee, appointed by the Rector to draft a statement following extensive discussion at a preliminary meeting submitted a draft for the consideration of the Board. The committee members were Mr. Robert P. Buford, Chairman, Mr. Donald E. Santarelli, Mr. Warren B. French, Jr., and Vice-President Crawford and Shea.

In developing the final statement, the Rector made it clear that the University either already has the necessary facilities, or that they are under construction, or are funded to increase the enrollment to 15,000 students by 1976.

Before a vote was taken, the President, Vice-President Shannon, and Vice-President Shea expressed approval of the statement.

The following statement was then adopted by the Board of Visitors without dissent:

In accordance with the historic role of the University of Virginia as the capstone of education in the Commonwealth and as an institution of national prominence and in recognition of its obligation to all the people of the Commonwealth, it shall be the policy of the University to enroll all qualified Virginia residents who seek admission here, without regard to race, religion, or sex, providing financial assistance where necessary to the extent of available funds.

To implement this policy it was necessary to study past enrollment history, the availability of facilities and the prospective growth of the University. A Committee on the Future of the University, composed of representatives of the administration, faculty and student body, has completed this study and its report has been carefully considered by the Board of Visitors. An important point considered by the Board is the increasing number of transfer students from the community college system.

Clearly the demand for admission to the University must be balanced against the availability of suitable facilities, both existing and under construction or funded, and account must be taken of appropriate faculty to student ratios.

After considering the Report of the Committee, the recommendations of the President and the views expressed by the Student Council, the Board of Visitors has determined that the total enrollment of the University must be increased from its present level to approximately 15,000 for the 1976 session. Additionally, if funds are made available for necessary faculty and facilities, the enrollment must be increased to approximately 16,000 by 1980. This is substantially less than the 18,088 students previously projected for 1980.

In order to assure the admission of qualified Virginia residents, the Board directs the President that no arbitrary limits are to be applied to enrollment except that the number of out-of-State students admitted for the next several years shall be limited to the number entering for the fall 1972 session. (Preliminary estimate - 1465)

The Board proposes to review at regular intervals the determinations set forth in this Statement.

(Conclusion of Statement)

The Rector expressed appreciation to the students, faculty, administrators, and members of the Board who worked so diligently to gather and interpret the extensive information which formed the basis of the statement. In view of the diligent efforts of the various segments of the University, and the sustained attention of the Board to these important matters, the Rector expressed satisfaction with the statement, describing it as one that the University can live with with no sense of holding back, and one that honestly deals with the issues.

Noting the final paragraph of the statement, Mr. William S. Potter requested that the determinations set forth in the statement be reviewed each time new official enrollment projections are requested by the State.

The President added his thanks to those of the Rector to the Board, the drafting committee and to the senior administrative officers for the excellent work done to bring this statement to its finished form.

The President announced that in light of the Report of the Committee on the Future of the University that steps have already been taken to improve the management, conversion, and planning of space. In view of the Board's statement, he advised that the enrollment of the entering class will not be frozen.

REPORT ON THE VISIT OF THE STATE COUNCIL OF HIGHER EDUCATION
------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the University made presentations at a meeting of the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia which was held at the University on September 7, 1972. These presentations were favorably received, and the President felt that the meeting was a constructive one.

UNIVERSITY - COMMUNITY RELATIONS
--------------------------------

The President reported that though increased attention is being given to improving communications with city and county officials, a number of problems persist. He noted that many of these problems involve planning officials, illustrating this point by describing difficulties which have arisen over the plans for the Medical Library and the Copeley Hill parking area.

Another cause for community concern has arisen from the handling of University news items by the press. Because of this there has been misunderstanding about the administration's attitude toward drug abuse at the University. Student leaders and the Student Affairs staff are working very hard to enforce regulations related to drug use.

REPORT ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE ELECTION TO THE FACULTY OF DR. HAROLD HALEY AS PROFESSOR OF SURGERY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee, acting for the Board, had elected Dr. Harold Haley as Professor of Surgery. His appointment as Associate Dean for Clinical Services-Roanoke is described on page 568 of these minutes. Mr. Mattern reported that this appointment was well received in Roanoke.

RESOLUTION TO CONFIRM THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE TO NAME MR. NEILL H. ALFORD, JR. AS LEGAL ADVISER OF THE UNIVERSITY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election by the Executive Committee of Mr. Neill H. Alford, Jr., as Legal Adviser of the University of Virginia, be and it is hereby approved and confirmed, effective October 1, 1972.

INCREASE IN MEDICAL SCHOOL TUITION
----------------------------------

Present

Proposed

1972-1973

Virginia

Out-of-State

Virginia

Out-of-State

$800

$1,850

$850

$2,000

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition charges (exclusive of all fees) in the School of Medicine be and they are hereby increased as indicated:PresentProposed1972-1973VirginiaOut-of-StateVirginiaOut-of-State$800$1,850$850$2,000

INCREASE IN LAW SCHOOL TUITION
------------------------------

Virginians

Present

Proposed

1972-1973

1973-1974

1974-1975

Old Students

$490

$545

open

New Students, Fall 1973

\-

$600

open

New Students, Fall 1974

\-

\-

open

Out-of-State

Present

Proposed

1972-1973

1973-1974

1974-1975

Old Students

$1370

$1445

$1520

New Students, Fall 1973

\-

$1520

$1725

New Students, Fall 1974

\-

\-

$2000

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition charges in the School of Law be and they are hereby increased as indicated:VirginiansPresentProposed1972-19731973-19741974-1975Old Students$490$545openNew Students, Fall 1973-$600openNew Students, Fall 1974--openOut-of-StatePresentProposed1972-19731973-19741974-1975Old Students$1370$1445$1520New Students, Fall 1973-$1520$1725New Students, Fall 1974--$2000

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

The list of Gifts and Grants was distributed. The President, in discussing the list noted that Mr. C. Waller Barrett's contribution again leads the list of donors.

ESTATE OF CLAUDIA PALMER YOUNG
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Legal Adviser answer a proposed bill for advice and guidance to be filed in the Chancery Court of the City of Richmond by the United Virginia Bank, Testamentary Trustee of the Residuary Estate of Claudia Palmer Young, such answer to oppose an exercise of discretion of the Trustee to apply income of the Trust to exonerate the principal of assets held separately by such Bank as Committee for William H. P. Young.

REPORTS BY STANDING COMMITTEES
------------------------------

Mr. C. Waller Barrett reported that the Educational Policy Committee meeting was dedicated largely to the discussion of the report of the Committee on the Future of the University.

Dr. Brownie E. Polly, reporting for the Chairman of the Medical Committee, noted that the Medical School has received a grant to study an experimental curriculum in which there is less emphasis on the basic sciences. He also reported that the University of Virginia Medical School is moving toward a formal program in continuing education, and that a full time director is being sought.

The recently instituted graduate program in nursing is operating successfully without additional faculty. Enrollment in the program stands at sixteen full time and three special students. These students are studying in the psychiatric and the pediatric area.

The Committee heard a report from Acting Dean Verhonick about the funding of a consortium in the Norfolk area for disadvantaged nurses.

Working drawings for the Psychiatric Institute are expected in the Spring of 1973.

Mr. Wright Harrison reported that the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee had heard reports from head football coach, Don Lawrence, and Director of Athletic Programs, Eugene Corrigan. They indicate that the University athletic programs are serving an increasingly important need. The Committee also heard from Student Council President James Rinaca, and Vice-President Sabato, urging the Board to adopt enrollment plan B. (Plan B recommends the limitation of headcount enrollment to 15,091 by 1980).

The Committee heard a report on a very satisfactory student-faculty-administration conference held at Graves Mountain Lodge. Also reported was a drug control program, in which students are assuming leadership.

Mr. William S. Potter advised that the Finance Committee had rejected a proposal to provide liability insurance to Board members. Also discussed was an evaluation of the University's Investment Counsel. The preliminary report indicates that the Bristol firm has made a good record so far, but there has not been a long enough time to make a valid analysis of the performance.

There was no report from the Buildings and Grounds Committee.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Terence J. Killen as Instructor in Health and Physical Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Emmet F. Low, Jr., as Professor of Mathematics, effective July 1, 1972, at a session salary of $17,500, plus 20 percent for summer work and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.Miss Marilyn C. Pace as Assistant Professor of Social Welfare, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Ronald C. Vanover as Assistant Professor of Business, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Miss Madeline M. Allen as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Paul E. Bayes as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. John G. Blackburn, Jr., as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Zougul H. Chowdhury as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mrs. Joan W. Dollard as Assistant Professor of French, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Carl L. Gusler as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Ronald H. Heise as Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mrs. Helen M. Lewis as Associate Professor of Sociology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mrs. Catherine J. Mahony as Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Mel J. Mahony as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Leo S. Willis as Associate Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Charles F. Denny, Instructor to Assistant Professor of Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Miss Lillian B. Hutzler, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Alan S. Dewey, Professor of Economics, effective August 31, 1972, for personal reasons.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Emmet F. Low, Jr., as Dean, Clinch Valley College, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Miss Madeline M. Allen as Associate Dean of Students, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Roy A. Ball as Director of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. George E. Culbertson as Registrar, for two years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Richard A. Davidson as Dean of Students, for two years, effective July 1, 1972.

GRANT FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE DRAMA BUILDING
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President or the Vice-President for Financial Affairs be, and either of them is hereby authorized to apply to the Department of Health, Education and Welfare for a grant under Title I of Public Law 88-204 (Higher Education Facilities Act of 1963 as amended) not to exceed $115,000 to be used for the construction of the Drama Building at Clinch Valley College.

SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERELECTION
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Charles E. Smith as Lecturer in Continuing Education and Director, Academic Program, FBI National Academy, Quantico, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

NORTHERN VIRGINIA CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSELECTION
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. William F. Lanier as Lecturer in Continuing Education, for the period November 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. William F. Lanier as Director, Northern Virginia Center for Continuing Education, School of Continuing Education, for the period November 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973.

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSELECTION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Everett F. Lang, Jr., as Lecturer in Continuing Education, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Everett F. Lang, Jr., as Assistant Director, Richmond Regional Office, for one year, effective August 16, 1972.

On motion the meeting was adjourned at 4:25 p.m.

RCB:jb