Board of Visitors minutes (1975) January 10, 1975
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

January 10, 1975

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA January 10, 1975
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:00 p.m., on January 10, 1975, in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, Robert P. Buford, Warren B. French, Jr., DuPont Guerry, III, Mrs. Linwood Holton, William E. Leggett, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, Howard W. McCall, Jr., George C. Palmer, II, William S. Potter, and Hugh Scott. Absent: Visitors W. Wright Harrison, Donald E. Santarelli, and William L. Zimmer, III. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, David A. Shannon, Vincent Shea, Edwin M. Crawford, Kenneth R. Crispell, and Ernest H. Ern were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of October 11, 1974, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. Paul R. Ahr as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for the period January 1, 1975 through June 30, 1975.Mr. John D. Anthony as Visiting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, one-half time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975.Miss Judith Ann Bancroft as Associate Professor of Nursing and Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for the period October 1, 1974 through June 30, 1975.Mrs. Roberta S. Barry as Lecturer in Chinese, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. Christopher A. Bayly as Visiting Assistant Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. John D. Boon, III, as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Eugene H. Brock as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one academic year, effective January 1, 1975. Mr. Brock served as Professor of Electrical Engineering from 1971 to 1974.Mr. John R. Broome as Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975.Mrs. Jeanine P. Brown as Instructor in Nursing, one-half time, for the period October 1, 1974 through August 31, 1975.Dr. Gene E. Clapsaddle as Associate Professor of Family and Community Medicine, for one year, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. John Cole, Jr., as Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective December 1, 1974.Mr. George M. Dawes as Instructor in Marine Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. Hilbert H. DeLawter as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for the period October 1, 1974 through May 31, 1975.Miss Katharine M. Donohoe as Instructor in Nursing, for the period November 1, 1974 through May 31, 1975.Dr. Charles M. Dwan as Instructor in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective October 1, 1974.Mr. Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective February 1, 1975.Dr. Richard J. Grayson as Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective December 1, 1974.Mr. Charles M. Grisham as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. Brian Hartley as Visiting Professor of Mathematics, for three months, effective May 16, 1975.Dr. Irving L. Hutcherson as Instructor in Pediatrics (Dentistry), for the period October 1, 1974 through June 30, 1975.Mrs. Margot A. Kaplan-Sanoff as Lecturer in Education, for the period January 1, 1975, through July 31, 1975.Dr. James P. King, Jr., as Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective December 1, 1974.Dr. John W. Kolmer as Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective December 1, 1974.Dr. Oksana M. Korzeniowski as Instructor in Internal Medicine, for the period September 1, 1974 through June 30, 1975, part-time.Dr. John A. Martin as Clinical Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective November 1, 1974.Mr. George R. Morrison as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975.Dr. Keith M. Oulie as Instructor in Pediatrics (Dentistry), for the period September 16, 1974 through June 30, 1975.Dr. William J. Peeples as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective February 1, 1975.Mr. James R. Peterson as Clinical Assistant Professor, Division of Social Work, for the period January 1, 1975, through June 30, 1977.Mr. E. Graham Pillow as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective March 1, 1975.Mr. Donald G. Piper as Lecturer in Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. John B. Pleasants as Instructor in Marine Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mrs. Arlene Rosenbaum as Instructor in Marine Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Hermann J. H. Schladitz as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, for one year, effective October 15, 1974.Dr. James G. Snead as Clinical Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective November 1, 1974.Mr. Ivar E. Strand, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Miss Esther C. Suss as Lecturer in Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975.Dr. Peter A. Wallenborn, Jr., as Clinical Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective December 1, 1974.Mr. John B. Winfield as Instructor in Internal Medicine, one-fourth time, for the period October 1, 1974 through June 30, 1975.Mrs. Judith H. Woodward as Instructor, General Faculty, (Alderman Library), for the period December 1, 1974, through August 31, 1975.Dr. Sarfraz A. Zaidi as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, part-time, for one year, effective October 1, 1974.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Carl I. Aspliden as Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Richard B. Barnett as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Rudolf H. Bieri as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Susan E. Bloomberg as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. William C. Boynton as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. Robert J. Byrne as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. John D. Casey as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Philip D. Cooper as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. David B. Croll as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. W. Jackson Davis as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. James C. Dearing as Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Thomas W. Epps as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. John P. Fullilove as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Victor Goldsmith as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Paul A. Haefner as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Miss Suzette A. Henke as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Howard Hensel as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Walter J. Hoagman as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. Paul V. Hyer as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Douglas P. Johnson as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Donald W. Jones as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Joseph G. Loesch as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Maurice P. Lynch as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Terry E. MacDougall as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. William G. MacIntyre as Assistant Professor, of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective January 16, 1975.Miss Joan I. Manes as Acting Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Robert S. Marvin, II, as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Curtis W. McIntyre as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Joseph A. McKinney as Assistant Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1976.Mr. Joseph C. Miller as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Richard P. Nathan as Visiting Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. Bruce J. Neilson as Assistant Professor, of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Maynard M. Nichols as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. David D. Roberts as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Elizabeth M. Ramsey as Mamie A. Jessup Visiting Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for one year, effective January 1, 1975.Mr. Charles R. Russell as Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Gene M. Silberhorn as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Marvin L. Wass as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Kenneth L. Webb as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. Christopher S. Welch as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. David E. Winter as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Clarisse Zimra as Assistant Professor of French, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1975.

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mrs. Nell B. Fuller, Assistant Professor, Medical Library, to Associate Professor, Health Sciences Library, for five years, effective January 1, 1975.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. O. Whitfield Broome, Jr., Associate Professor of Commerce, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975, to serve as Visiting Professor at the University of Texas, Austin, and for one semester, effective September 1, 1975, to qualify for CPA certificate.Mr. Fredrick Davidson, Associate Professor of Commerce, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975, to carry out research on budgeting for non-profit institutions.Mrs. E. Mavis Hetherington, Professor of Psychology and of Psychiatry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to accept a research visiting professorship at Stanford University.Mr. Kevin M. McCrimmon, Professor of Mathematics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1975, to visit non-associative algebraists at Yale, MIT, Montreal, Wisconsin, and Vancouver.Mr. Steven E. Rhoads, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975, to accept a National Humanities Foundation Fellowship.Mr. J. David Sapir, Associate Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to serve as a Visiting Fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Dr. Thomas J. Boll, from Associate Professor of Psychiatry, to Associate Professor of Psychiatry and of Pediatrics, for the period November 1, 1974 through June 30, 1976.Mr. Darryl J. Gless, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for the period December 1, 1974 through May 31, 1977.Mr. Kenny R. Marotta, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Charles A. Plesums, from Director, Division of Academic Computing, to Associate Director, Computer Services, Office of Computing Activities, for one year, effective March 1, 1975.Mr. James W. Ramsey, Jr., Assistant Director, to Associate Director of Financial Aid to Students, for the period December 1, 1974 through June 30, 1975.Mr. Paul W. Tremper, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for the period November 1, 1974 through June 30, 1975.Dr. Richard A. Wiklund, from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and of Pharmacology, for the period January 1, 1975 through September 30, 1975.

RETIREMENT
----------

The President announced the retirement of Mr. Orville R. Harris, Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective January 15, 1975. Mr. Harris has been a member of the faculty since 1948.

ELECTION OF MR. ORVILLE R. HARRIS AS PROFESSOR EMERITUS
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Orville R. Harris be and he is hereby elected Professor Emeritus.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Charles S. Chen, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective August 31, 1975, to accept a position with the National Science Foundation.Mr. Charles R. Davis, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, (Alderman Library), effective January 31, 1975, to accept a position at Smith College.Miss Zoe A. Evans, Instructor in Pathology, effective December 31, 1974, to pursue a Ph.D. degree in Microbiology at the Medical College of Virginia.Mr. Daniel J. Flanigan, Assistant Professor of History, effective January 15, 1975, to accept a position with HEW.Mr. Jerry D. Frey, Assistant Professor of Psychology, effective January 15, 1975, to accept a position at Clemson University.Dr. Martin G. Netsky, Professor of Pathology, effective December 31, 1974, to accept a position at another institution.Mr. John A. Trinder, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology), effective November 30, 1974, to accept a position at the University of Tasmania.Mr. Jack Wakley, Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective December 31, 1974, to accept a position at Norfolk General Medical Center.Mr. David W. Weiss as Chairman, Department of Drama, effective May 31, 1975, to devote full time to teaching and research.Mr. Charles E. Wheeler, Instructor in Education, effective October 31, 1974, to accept a position with the Virginia Association of Electrical Cooperatives.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Antharvedi Anne as Acting Director, Division of Biomedical Engineering, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. George W. Black as Chairman, Department of Drama, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., as Special Assistant to the President, for three years, effective February 1, 1975.Mr. Brian Hartley as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three months, effective May 16, 1975.Mr. E. Graham Pillow as Director, Medical Computing, for one year, effective March 1, 1975.Mr. Robert H. Trent as Assistant to the Executive Vice-President, for five years, effective January 1, 1975.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Theodore Caplow as Chairman, Department of Sociology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Donald W. Jones as Assistant to the President, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Norman J. Knorr as Associate Dean of the School of Medicine for Student Affairs in Clinical Services, for one year, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. Edwin W. Pullen as Associate Dean of the School of Medicine for Student Affairs in Basic Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1974.

DEATH OF MR. WILLIAM C. SEITZ
-----------------------------

REAPPOINTMENT OF A SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE MANUAL
--------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that he has re-appointed the Special Committee on the Manual. Serving are:

Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Chairman

C. Waller Barrett

Robert P. Buford

W. Wright Harrison

Frank L. Hereford, Jr. (ex-officio)

Raymond C. Bice, Secretary (ex-officio)

CONTINUATION OF MEMBERSHIP IN THE ASSOCIATION OF GOVERNING BOARDS
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector initiated a discussion of the University's membership in the Association of Governing Boards. There were expressions from several members indicating that the Association offered services that are valuable and useful to the University. The Rector announced that the University of Virginia will renew its membership in the Association.

CAPE FOR BOARD MEMBERS TO WEAR OVER ACADEMIC ATTIRE
---------------------------------------------------

The Rector advised that Vice-President Shea requested designers in the Drama Department to create a cape to be worn over the academic attire of members of the Board of Visitors at academic occasions. A cape was shown to the Board, and there were expressions of approval. The Rector announced that these will be made available to Board members who wish to wear them.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program. He announced with enthusiasm that the restoration and adaptation of the Rotunda project is on schedule, and that completion is expected by the end of the year.

APPROVAL OF LETTER OF INTENT FOR PH.D. PROGRAM IN RELIGIOUS STUDIES
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a letter of intent for a Ph.D. program in Religious Studies is hereby approved with respect to the content and quality of the program, but that submission of the letter to the State Council of Higher Education in Virginia be delayed pending consideration at a future Board meeting of State revenue projections and their impact on the University.

APPROVAL OF LETTER OF INTENT FOR ED.D. PROGRAM IN HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a letter of intent for an Ed.D. program in Health and Physical Education is hereby approved with respect to the content and quality of the program, but that submission of the letter to the State Council of Higher Education in Virginia be delayed pending consideration at a future Board meeting of State revenue projections and their impact on the University.

INCREASE IN SUMMER SESSION FEE
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Student Activity Fee for the Summer Session be and it is hereby increased from $6.00 to $7.00 per student, effective June 1, 1975.

REPORT ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE WITH REGARD TO AN INCREASE IN HOSPITAL ROOM RATES, ON NOVEMBER 6, 1974
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the following resolution was adopted by the Executive Committee on November 6, 1974: RESOLVED by The Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, acting as authorized by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, that the daily rates for rooms in the hospital be and they are hereby increased by $11.00 effective as of the time of the close of business on October 31, 1974.

REPORT ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE WITH REGARD TO THE ESTABLISHMENT IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE OF A PROFESSORSHIP TO BE CALLED THE WILLIAM STAMPS ROYSTER CHAIR OF MEDICAL SCIENCE FOR BASIC CANCER RESEARCH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the following resolution was adopted by the Executive Committee on December 10 and 11, 1974: RESOLVED by The Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, acting as authorized by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, that there be established in the School of Medicine a Professorship to be called the William Stamps Royster Chair of Medical Science for Basic Cancer Research.

RESOLUTION DISCONTINUING THE PUBLICATION FEE FOR THE SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the $2.00 per session Publication Fee for the School of Engineering and Applied Science be discontinued, effective July 1, 1975.

RESCINDING ACTIONS OF OCTOBER 11, 1974 WITH RESPECT TO AN AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY PROFESSORSHIP
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the actions taken by the Board on October 11, 1974 with respect to an American Cancer Society Professorship be and they are hereby rescinded as requested by the donors.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$251,663.85

Free service to Counties and Cities

302.004.36

\-------------

Total

$553,668.21

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules totaling $553,668.21, as recommended by it, consisting of the following:Bad debts$251,663.85Free service to Counties and Cities302.004.36-------------Total$553,668.21

APPROVAL OF STATEMENT OF PURPOSE FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Statement of Purpose for Clinch Valley College which appears below, be and it is hereby approved.Clinch Valley College is founded upon the historic commitments of the University of Virginia to excellence and service. The College is dedicated to the development of citizens who are sensitive, cultured, articulate, open-minded, who ground their thinking in facts, are intellectually aware, believe that life is significant, are concerned about society, and are preparing for their role in society by continuing their education through specific preparation based upon a comprehensive background in the liberal arts.To perform this general purpose, the educational program at Clinch Valley College emphasizes the following:1. The liberal arts through which students develop an understanding of the world in which they live. Such an understanding is facilitated through studies in three broad areas of the educational curriculum.A. Humanities - Studies of the moral, philosophic, and aesthetic issues which confront both the individual and society.B. Social Studies - Studies concerned with the nature and function of society and the individual's role in society.C. Natural Science - Studies in the natural sciences including ways in which the natural sciences are transforming the world in which we live and the influence these transformations have on other areas of life.2. Professional training in business, education, and other professions to provide students with specific career preparation so they may perform meaningful roles in our modern complex society.

RESOLUTION REGARDING TUITION FOR ACADEMIC COMMON MARKET
-------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the General Assembly of Virginia in its 1974 Session enacted ยง 23-7.2 of the Code of Virginia which authorized the governing board of any State institution of Higher Education to charge resident tuition to certain non-residents.

The following resolution was adopted: NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that any person who is enrolled in one of the University's programs designated by the State Council of Higher Education, and who is domiciled in and is entitled to reduced tuition charges in the institutions of higher learning in any state which is a party to the Southern Regional Educational compact, and which has similar reciprocal provisions for persons domiciled in Virginia, shall be charged the same tuition as is charged to any person domiciled in Virginia pursuant to the provisions of ยง 23-7 of the Code of Virginia.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

The President distributed a list of gifts and grants. He expressed sincere appreciation to those who contributed, and expressed the view that the large number of grants constitute a national expression of confidence in the faculty of the University of Virginia.

REPORT ON LEGISLATIVE MATTERS
-----------------------------

The President reported that the University has been called upon to reduce further its expenditures, and that we may be asked for further reductions. He announced that the University will seek authority in a separate bill to issue revenue bonds for the Federal Executive Institute facility.

REPORT ON INSTITUTE FOR NATIONAL POLICY STUDIES
-----------------------------------------------

The President expressed satisfaction with the status of planning for an Institute for National Policy Studies.

DISCUSSION OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST LEGISLATION
----------------------------------------------

Mr. George G. Grattan, IV, reviewed for the Board the requirements outlined in the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act (ยง 2.1-351, 2.1-352 and 2.1-353).

HOUSING RENTAL INCREASES
------------------------

Facility

Current Rate Per Month

Proposed Rate Per Month

Piedmont

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom

$130.00

$150.00

2 Bedroom

135.00

155.00

3 Bedroom (houses)

140.00

160.00

Townhouses

3 Bedroom

195.00

215.00

2404 Stadium Road

85.00

85.00

Farm House (121 Mimosa)

Apt. 1

105.00

120.00

Apt. 2

125.00

140.00

Apt. 3

100.00

115.00

Apt. 4

115.00

130.00

Gildersleeve-Snowden

Monroe Lane

1 Bedroom

$110.00

$130.00

2 Bedroom

150.00

170.00

Efficiency

80.00

100.00

Snowden

Apt. 1

$110.00

$130.00

Apt. 2

110.00

130.00

Apt. 6

85.00

105.00

Apt. 101

200.00

220.00

Apt. 103

150.00

170.00

Apt. 201

110.00

130.00

Apt. 202

110.00

130.00

Apt. 203

150.00

170.00

Facility

Current Rate Per Month

Proposed Rate Per Month

Sundry

Birdwood Properties

Cottage

$145.00

Garage

170.00

Faulkner Property

Holly House

$130.00

$155.00

Hedge House

125.00

145.00

Faculty Apts

Apt. 11

$125.00

140.00

Apt. 12

120.00

135.00

Apt. 14

115.00

130.00

Apt. 15

110.00

125.00

Apt. 21

70.00

85.00

Apt. 22

75.00

90.00

Apt. 23

70.00

90.00

Apt. 24

70.00

90.00

Apt. 25

85.00

100.00

Apt. 26

80.00

95.00

Apt. 27

80.00

95.00

Apt. 28

75.00

90.00

Apt. 31

85.00

100.00

Apt. 32

80.00

95.00

Apt. 33

95.00

110.00

Apt. 34

95.00

110.00

Apt. 35

90.00

105.00

Apt. 36

90.00

105.00

Sundry Residences Vysotsky Cottage, 3 Bedroom

$ 95.00

$130.00

South Cottage, 3 Bedroom

95.00

110.00

Upper Alden, 3 Bedroom

120.00

140.00

Lower Alden, 3 Bedroom

110.00

130.00

Lower Mews, 1 Bedroom

85.00

105.00

Upper Mews, 1 Bedroom

78.00

105.00

Little Morea, 1 Bedroom

90.00

100.00

Facility

Current Rate Per Month

Proposed Rate Per Month

McGuffey Cottage

75.00

95.00

Farm House (250 By-Pass), 3 Bedroom

40.00

50.00

2400 Stadium Road

160.00

180.00

Copeley Hill I & II

1 Bedroom

$115.00

$135.00

2 Bedroom

130.00

150.00

3 Bedroom

145.00

165.00

University Gardens

1 Bedroom

$110.00

$130.00

2 Bedroom

125.00

145.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the housing rentals be and they are hereby increased effective July 1, 1975.FacilityCurrent Rate Per MonthProposed Rate Per MonthPiedmontPiedmont Estates1 Bedroom$130.00$150.002 Bedroom135.00155.003 Bedroom (houses)140.00160.00Townhouses3 Bedroom195.00215.002404 Stadium Road85.0085.00Farm House (121 Mimosa)Apt. 1105.00120.00Apt. 2125.00140.00Apt. 3100.00115.00Apt. 4115.00130.00Gildersleeve-SnowdenMonroe Lane1 Bedroom$110.00$130.002 Bedroom150.00170.00Efficiency80.00100.00SnowdenApt. 1$110.00$130.00Apt. 2110.00130.00Apt. 685.00105.00Apt. 101200.00220.00Apt. 103150.00170.00Apt. 201110.00130.00Apt. 202110.00130.00Apt. 203150.00170.00FacilityCurrent Rate Per MonthProposed Rate Per MonthSundryBirdwood PropertiesCottage$145.00Garage170.00Faulkner PropertyHolly House$130.00$155.00Hedge House125.00145.00Faculty AptsApt. 11$125.00140.00Apt. 12120.00135.00Apt. 14115.00130.00Apt. 15110.00125.00Apt. 2170.0085.00Apt. 2275.0090.00Apt. 2370.0090.00Apt. 2470.0090.00Apt. 2585.00100.00Apt. 2680.0095.00Apt. 2780.0095.00Apt. 2875.0090.00Apt. 3185.00100.00Apt. 3280.0095.00Apt. 3395.00110.00Apt. 3495.00110.00Apt. 3590.00105.00Apt. 3690.00105.00Sundry Residences Vysotsky Cottage, 3 Bedroom$ 95.00$130.00South Cottage, 3 Bedroom95.00110.00Upper Alden, 3 Bedroom120.00140.00Lower Alden, 3 Bedroom110.00130.00Lower Mews, 1 Bedroom85.00105.00Upper Mews, 1 Bedroom78.00105.00Little Morea, 1 Bedroom90.00100.00FacilityCurrent Rate Per MonthProposed Rate Per MonthMcGuffey Cottage75.0095.00Farm House (250 By-Pass), 3 Bedroom40.0050.002400 Stadium Road160.00180.00Copeley Hill I & II1 Bedroom$115.00$135.002 Bedroom130.00150.003 Bedroom145.00165.00University Gardens1 Bedroom$110.00$130.002 Bedroom125.00145.00

DORMITORY RENTAL INCREASES
--------------------------

Facility

Current Rate Per Session

Proposed Rate Per Session

Alderman Road

Double Room, Per Student

$400.00

$480.00

Monroe Hill

Corner Room, Double Occupancy

$425.00

$525.00

Regular Room, Double Occupancy

$425.00

$525.00

Observatory Houses

Double Room, Per Student

$400.00

$480.00

McCormick Road (Renovated Rooms)

Double Room, Per Student

$375.00

$450.00

Facility

Current Rate Per Session

Proposed Rate Per Session

(Unrenovated Rooms)

Double Room, Per Student

$355.00

$425.00

Single Room, large

$400.00

$475.00

Single Room, small

$345.00

$420.00

Lawn and Ranges (Lawn)

Small Single Room (Batchelors Row)

$380.00

$500.00

(Range) Regular Single

$420.00

$550.00

Cracker Box

Double Room, Per Student

$375.00

$500.00

Mary Munford Hall

Double Room, Per Student

$400.00

$480.00

Single Room

$445.00

$500.00

Roberta Gwathmey House

Double Room, Per Student

$400.00

$480.00

Single Room

$445.00

$500.00

Copeley III

Per Student

$550.00 and $31.50/student for telephone service

$650.00 and $31.50/student for telephones

Lambeth Field

Per Student

$550.00 and same as above for 2 bedroom apartments or $21.00 per student in 3 bedroom apartments

$650.00 and same as on left

Nurses Dormitory

Per Student

$550.00 and same as above

$650.00 and same as on left above

Faulkner Property

Double Occupancy

$420.00

$470.00

Single Occupancy

$470.00

$520.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that housing rentals be and they are hereby increased as follows effective September 1, 1975:FacilityCurrent Rate Per SessionProposed Rate Per SessionAlderman RoadDouble Room, Per Student$400.00$480.00Monroe HillCorner Room, Double Occupancy$425.00$525.00Regular Room, Double Occupancy$425.00$525.00Observatory HousesDouble Room, Per Student$400.00$480.00McCormick Road (Renovated Rooms)Double Room, Per Student$375.00$450.00FacilityCurrent Rate Per SessionProposed Rate Per Session(Unrenovated Rooms)Double Room, Per Student$355.00$425.00Single Room, large$400.00$475.00Single Room, small$345.00$420.00Lawn and Ranges (Lawn)Small Single Room (Batchelors Row)$380.00$500.00(Range) Regular Single$420.00$550.00Cracker BoxDouble Room, Per Student$375.00$500.00Mary Munford HallDouble Room, Per Student$400.00$480.00Single Room$445.00$500.00Roberta Gwathmey HouseDouble Room, Per Student$400.00$480.00Single Room$445.00$500.00Copeley IIIPer Student$550.00 and $31.50/student for telephone service$650.00 and $31.50/student for telephonesLambeth FieldPer Student$550.00 and same as above for 2 bedroom apartments or $21.00 per student in 3 bedroom apartments$650.00 and same as on leftNurses DormitoryPer Student$550.00 and same as above$650.00 and same as on left aboveFaulkner PropertyDouble Occupancy$420.00$470.00Single Occupancy$470.00$520.00

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Kenneth P. Byrd as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Miss Anne B. Leibig as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mrs. Diane M. Libby as Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Peter S. Yun as Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

HAMPTON ROADS REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSELECTION
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Terry A. Guthrie as Lecturer, Continuing Education, for the period November 1, 1974 through June 30, 1975.

On motion the meeting was adjourned at 1:57 p.m.

RCB:jb