Board of Visitors minutes (1982) January 30, 1982
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

January 30, 1982

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA January 30, 1982
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:00 p.m., in Open Session on January 28, 1982, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector D. French Slaughter, Jr., President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., William M. Dudley, DuPont Guerry, III, Stephen C. Mahan, David N. Montague, George C. Palmer, II, Ferman W. Perry, Fred G. Pollard, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., and E. Massie Valentine. Absent were Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., Mrs. Linwood Holton, Howard W. McCall, Jr., Frank S. Royal and Carl W. Smith. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., William H. Muller, Ernest H. Ern, Edwin E. Floyd, and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia reconvened in Open Session on January 30, 1982, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector D. French Slaughter, Jr., President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., DuPont Guerry, III, Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., Mrs. Linwood Holton, Stephen C. Mahan, Howard W. McCall, Jr., David N. Montague, George C. Palmer, II, Ferman W. Perry, Fred G. Pollard, Frank S. Royal, Carl W. Smith, and E. Massie Valentine. Absent were William M. Dudley and Glenn B. Updike, Jr. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., William H. Muller, Marion B. Peavey, Avery Catlin, Edwin E. Floyd, and George G. Grattan, IV, were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of October 10, 1981, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

The following motions were unanimously adopted by vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the discussion of legal matters and for discussion of the evaluation of schools or departments.(b) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the discussion and evaluation of University schools and departments.(c) That the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to consider the disposition of publicly held real property.(d) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the discussion of gifts, bequests and fund raising activities, for the discussion of the investment of publicly held funds where competition and bargaining is involved, and for the discussion of the disposition of publicly held property.(e) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the consideration of personnel matters involving assignment, promotion, salaries and resignation of public employees.

EXECUTIVE ORDER NUMBER TWO 82
-----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Governor has executed Executive Order Number Two (82) dated January 16, 1982, which places a moratorium on the hiring of full-time salaried employees of the Commonwealth of Virginia effective January 16, 1982, to April 12, 1982; andWHEREAS, the President has reported to the Board of Visitors that the moratorium will adversely affect the ability of the University through the Hospital and Blue Ridge Divisions to deliver health care services resulting in life threatening situations, and that the moratorium will also preclude the University from carrying out contractual commitments through sponsored programs, especially in research; andWHEREAS, the health care and sponsored program positions are not funded by the State through General Fund appropriations;NOW THEREFORE IT IS RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby directed to seek immediately authorization to exempt health care positions in the Hospital and Blue Ridge Division and sponsored program positions in the University Division from the provisions of Executive Order Number Two (82).Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Opening Session continued at 10:45 a.m., on January 30, 1982.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE SURFACE AND MINERAL LEASE
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the surface and mineral lease between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and John M. Prince, Sr., and Lee Congleton, partners, trading as Prince Land Company, dated January 20, 1982, and as exhibited at the meeting of the Board of Visitors on January 30, 1982, for certain land adjacent to Clinch Valley College facilities be and it is hereby approved.

REPORT FROM THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
-------------------------------

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Giorgio Benedek as Visiting Associate Professor of Physics, for the period September 1, 1981 through October 31, 1981.Mr. Volker Berghahn as Visiting Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. David E. Berry as Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Ann L. Beyer as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for two years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Colin M. Campbell as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective November 1, 1981.Mr. Robert A. Cecil as Assistant Professor of Physics, for the period October 1, 1981 through January 15, 1982.Mr. Richard W. Coffman as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Leah W. Corbin as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective October 12, 1981.Ms. Susan E. DeGange as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period December 1, 1981 through June 30, 1984.Mr. Robert M. deVoursney as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for the period December 1, 1981 through June 30, 1985.Ms. Mary W. Dickie as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for the period October 5, 1981 through May 31, 1982.Ms. Patricia E. Dix as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Rudolph C. Doenges as Visiting Arthur Morris Professor of Commerce, for one semester, effective January 15, 1982.Mr. Wei L. Fang as Instructor in Medical Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. George W. Foster, Jr. as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. Robert L. Grinaker as Visiting Carman Blough Professor of Accounting, School of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Michael J. Halseth as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective January 1, 1982.Mr. John M. Hamrick as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three academic years, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. Thomas M. Harvey as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Michael Hawkins as Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert E. Ingham as Assistant Professor of Drama, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. German Lizarralde as Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for the period December 1, 1981 through June 30, 1984.Ms. Chung-ming Lung as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period February 15, 1982 through June 30, 1984.Mr. H. S. Mani as Visiting Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. Louis G. Martsolf as Associate Professor, General Faculty, Physical Plant, for the period November 16, 1981 through June 30, 1985.Mr. Peter L. Munger as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective December 1, 1981.Mr. Gary K. Owens as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective January 1, 1982.Ms. Janet M. Paarlberg as Instructor in Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, for one year, effective November 1, 1981.Mr. Mark Reisler as Associate Professor, General Faculty, The Darden School, for three years, effective November 9, 1981.Ms. Dorothy F. Rudolph as Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, for three years, effective October 1, 1981.Mr. Peter Russell as Visiting Professor of Spanish, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Ms. Julianne J. Sando as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective January 1, 1982.Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr. as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective December 1, 1981.Mr. Eugene F. Scoles as Visiting Joseph M. Hartfield Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. James R. Self as Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period January 1, 1982 through June 30, 1984.Mr. James E. Smith as Visiting Carman Blough Professor of Commerce, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Mrs. Maria M. Thompson as Research Instructor in Physiology, for one year, effective November 1, 1981.Venerable Yeshe Thupten as Lecturer in Religious Studies, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. Gary R. Treadway as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period January 16, 1982 through June 30, 1984.Mrs. Jennifer B. Wilhoit as Instructor in Nursing, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Mumtaz H. Zaidi as Visiting Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF DR. ZHEN-HENG SHAO
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Dr. Zhen-Heng Shao as Visiting Associate Professor of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, be and it is hereby changed from July 1, 1981 to September 1, 1981.

ACTION RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDER
------------------------------

(a) Leave of Absence for Chairholder

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Sidney M. Hecht, John W. Mallet Professor of Chemistry, for the period September 1, 1981, through August 31, 1982, to accept a visiting position with the pharmaceutical firm of Smith, Kline and French, Philadelphia.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Wayne M. Alves as Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for the period December 1, 1981 through June 30, 1984.Dr. Willie A. Andersen as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Joanne M. Baldonado as Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish Linguistics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. James C. Ballenger as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective August 16, 1982.Mr. Keith J. Beven as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Larissa V. Brown as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. Authur J. Bulger as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. George L. Cahen, Jr. as Research Assistant Professor of Materials Science, for three academic years, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. Leroy D. Chadwick as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for three years, effective December 16, 1981.Ms. Mary V. Compton as Acting Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, School of Medicine, and Acting Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Education, for one academic year, effective January 1, 1982.Mr. Edward F. Connor as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Mara E. Donaldson as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. A. Bruce Dotson as Associate Professor of Planning, School of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Marcy R. Edelstein as Assistant Professor of Art, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Patrice G. Guyenet as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Brian C. Hocking as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part-time, for the period October 1, 1981 through January 15, 1982.Mr. Daniel J. Hornbach as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Harold B. Johnson, Jr. as Scholar-in-Residence in History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. James A. McCormick as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Wallace C. Nunley, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology and of Medicine, for two years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Ranajit Pal as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. G. Carleton Ray as Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Richard L. Roth as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Betty H. Sapir as Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. John M. Saunders as Visiting Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Mohammed Sawaie as Assistant Professor of Arabic, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. John P. Shemo as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Charles A. Singhas as Research Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for two years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Siva Thiagarajah as Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. David J. Toscano as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Dr. Robert L. Wangelin as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Steven S. Wasserman as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. John D. Wilkes as Visiting Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Dr. Thomas H. Bain from Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine and Internal Medicine to Clinical Associate Professor of Family Medicine and Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Charles F. Ballou, III from Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine to Clinical Associate Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Edward J. Golden from Instructor, General Faculty to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. William J. Hancock from Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine to Clinical Associate Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Donald J. Innes from Instructor in Pathology, part-time to Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Marilyn Nations-Shields from Instructor, General Medical Faculty, Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Robert C. Raynor from Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Practice to Clinical Associate Professor of Family Practice, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Susan E. Tulis from Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Law Library, for three years, effective January 1, 1982.Dr. Bernard M. Williams from Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Clinical Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective November 1, 1981.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. John T. Casteen, III, Associate Professor of English, for the period January 1, 1982 through December 31, 1986, to serve as the Secretary of Education for the Commonwealth of Virginia.Mr. Randall Collins, Professor of Sociology, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982, to teach at another university.Mr. Gabor Follinus, Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982, to complete research on a book.Mr. W. Reed Johnson, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. Alden R. Kuhlthau, Professor of Civil Engineering, for the period September 1, 1981 through May 31, 1986, part-time, in accordance with the Board of Visitors' approved half-time retirement agreement.Mr. James A. McPherson, Associate Professor of English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982, to continue research on a MacArthur Fellowship.Mr. Robert H. Owens, Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, for the period September 1, 1982 through May 31, 1987, part-time, in accordance with the Board of Visitors' approved half-time retirement agreement.Mr. G. Carleton Ray, Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period November 1, 1981 through December 31, 1981, because of insufficient funds from research grant.Ms. Renate L. Voris, Assistant Professor of German, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982, to complete research projects.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Jack S. Brenizer from Acting Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering to Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for the period October 15, 1981 through May 31, 1984.Mr. Avery Catlin from Professor of Materials Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science to University Professor of Engineering, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. James F. Childress from Professor of Religious Studies to Professor of Religious Studies and Professor of Medical Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr. from Vice President for Business and Finance to Vice President for Business and Finance and Chief Operating Officer, effective October 1, 1981.Mr. Ronald W. Michener from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics to Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period November 1, 1981 through May 31, 1983.Mr. Glenn E. Miller from Acting Assistant Professor of Astronomy to Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Steven A. Newman from Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology to Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Neurosurgery, for the period October 1, 1981 through June 30, 1984.Mr. William A. O'Brien from Acting Assistant Professor of German to Assistant Professor of German, for the period October 16, 1981 through May 31, 1985.Mr. John Ravenhill from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period November 16 1981 through May 31, 1984.Ms. Jean L. Rayburn from Associate Professor, General Faculty, and Associate Dean of Admissions to Associate Professor, General Faculty, and Acting Dean of Admissions, for the period January 16, 1982 through June 30, 1982.Mr. William L. Richards from Professor, General Faculty to Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, General Faculty, for the period December 1, 1981 through May 31, 1984.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Carl M. Brauer, Assistant Professor of History, effective January 15, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. John T. Casteen, III, Dean of Admissions, effective January 16, 1982, to accept the position of Secretary of Education of the Commonwealth of Virginia.Mr. Eleftherios N. Economou, Professor of Physics, effective January 16, 1982, to accept another position.Dr. David Elkon, Associate Professor of Radiology, effective January 15, 1982, to accept another position.Dr. Robert T. Hyde, Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective June 30, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. Roger A. Pielke, Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective January 15, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. Lawrence E. Rose, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 31, 1982, to accept a position at the Norwegian Institute for Urban and Regional Research.Mr. Merrell P. Runquist, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry (Psychology), effective December 31, 1981, to enter private practice.Mr. Timothy J. Sullivan, Visiting Professor of Law, effective effective January 15, 1982, to accept a position with Governor Robb's new administration.Dr. Henry S. Willner, Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, effective June 30, 1981, for personal reasons.Dr. Barry Zide, Assistant Professor of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery and Assistant Professor of Dentistry, effective December 31, 1981, to accept another position.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Douglas Alden as Acting Chairman, Department of French Language and Literature, for the period September 1, 1982 through August 31, 1983Mr. Alan P. Batson as Acting Director of Academic Computing, for one semester, effective January 15, 1982.Mr. Colin M. Campbell as Assistant Director of Planned Giving, Office of Development and University Relations, for three years, effective November 1, 1981.Ms. Leah W. Corbin as Acting Director, Upward Bound, for the period October 12, 1981 through October 12, 1982Ms. Mary W. Dickie as Assistant Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective October 5, 1981.Mr. Robert H. Evans as Chairman, Department of Government and Foreign Affairs, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Charles J. Flickinger as Acting Chairman, Department of Anatomy, until a new department chairman is appointed, effective October 8, 1981.Mr. Edward J. Golden as Assistant Dean of Students, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Michael J. Halseth as Associate Director for Operations, University of Virginia Hospitals, for three years, effective January 1, 1982.Mr. Robert Huskey as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective January 1, 1982.Mr. Donald G. Loach as Chairman, Department of Music, for the period September 1, 1982 through August 31, 1985Mr. Louis G. Martsolf as Director, Architectural and Engineering Services, Physical Plant, for the period November 16, 1981 through June 30, 1985Mr. James A. McCormick as Director of Administrative Computing, for two years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Peter L. Munger as Assistant Vice President and University Comptroller, for three years, effective December 1, 1981.Mr. Mark Reisler as Assistant Dean for Administration, The Darden School, for three years, effective November 9, 1981.Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr. as Assistant Vice President for Budget and Planning, for three years, effective December 1, 1981.Mr. Roger P. Sherman as Chairman, Department of Economics, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1982.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Malcolm Bell, III as Chairman, Department of Art, for three years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Robert Denomme as Chairman, Department of French Language and Literature, for four years, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Charles E. Hamner as Associate Vice President for Health Affairs, for five years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Steven J. Klein as Assistant Dean of Students, Fraternities and Sororities, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Norman J. Knorr as Dean, School of Medicine, for five years, effective May 1, 1982.Mr. Robert W. O'Connell as Chairman, Department of Astronomy, for three years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Alexander Sedgwick as Chairman, Department of History, for three years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Albert R. Turnbull as Associate Dean, School of Law, for five years, effective July 1, 1981.

DEATH OF MR. LEWIS M. HAMMOND
-----------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE W. L. LYONS BROWN PROFESSORSHIP IN THE FIELD OF THE OCCUPANT CHOSEN FOR THE CHAIR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the W. L. Lyons Brown Professorship in the field of the occupant chosen for the Chair, this Chair to become effective on such date as its funding is completed. The Board is grateful to Mrs. W. L. Lyons Brown, Mr. W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., the W. L. Lyons Brown Foundation and the Brown Forman Distillers Corporation that made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CONSUMER BANKERS ASSOCIATION PROFESSORSHIP IN RETAIL BANKING
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the McIntire School of Commerce a Chair to be known as the Consumer Bankers Association Professorship in Retail Banking, this Chair to become effective on such date as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to the Consumer Bankers Association that made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOHN ALLAN LOVE PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Law a Chair to be known as the John Allan Love Professorship in Law, this Chair to become effective on such date as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to the John Allan Love Charitable Foundation and the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund that made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WILLIAM STAMPS FARISH PROFESSORSHIP IN FREE ENTERPRISE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the McIntire School of Commerce a Chair to be known as the William Stamps Farish Professorship in Free Enterprise. The Board is grateful to the William Stamps Farish Fund that made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JAMES C. WHEAT, JR., PROFESSORSHIP IN GRADUATE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration a Chair to be known as the James C. Wheat, Jr. Professorship in Graduate Business Administration. The Board is grateful to the Darden Fund and Sponsors who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOSEPH MOORE MCCONNELL AND DAVID MEADE BERNARD PROFESSORSHIP IN MATHEMATICS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Joseph Moore McConnell and David Meade Bernard Professorship in Mathematics, this Chair to become effective on such date as its funding is completed. The Board is grateful to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. McConnell who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE GORDON THOMAS WHYBURN PROFESSORSHIP IN MATHEMATICS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Gordon Thomas Whyburn Professorship in Mathematics. The Board is grateful to the Gordon Whyburn family who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MARY ANDERSON HARRISON PROFESSORSHIP IN NEUROLOGY
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the Mary Anderson Harrison Professorship in Neurology. The Board is grateful to Mr. and Mrs. David A. Harrison, III, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President distributed a report on construction. Included in the report was the statement that the new Undergraduate Readers Library will open in March. The late arrival of furniture has delayed the opening.

REPORT ON LEGISLATIVE MATTERS
-----------------------------

President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., reported that the General Assembly is considering several bills that will affect higher education in the Commonwealth. Among these is a bill that would exempt research notes from the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, a bill to clarify purchasing procedures, a bill providing that an increased proportion of cost of instruction be borne by tuition payments, and a bill sought by the Student Council which would provide for a student representative on the Board of Visitors.

NAMING THE ANNEX TO UNIVERSITY HALL THE LOUIS ANTHONY ONESTY HALL
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Annex to University Hall be and it is hereby named the Louis Anthony Onesty Hall.

NAMING THE RECREATIONAL FACILITY NEAR THE ALDERMAN ROAD HOUSING UNITS THE EDWARD R. SLAUGHTER RECREATIONAL CENTER
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the recreational facility near the Alderman Road housing units be and it is hereby named the Edward R. Slaughter Recreational Center.

NAMING THE NEWLY CONSTRUCTED SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY LABORATORIES IN GILMER HALL THE L. STARLING REID MEMORIAL LABORATORIES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the newly constructed ground floor Social Psychology Laboratories in Gilmer Hall be and they are hereby named the L. Starling Reid Memorial Laboratories.

NAMING THE INSTITUTE FOR AFRO-AMERICAN AND AFRICAN STUDIES THE CARTER G. WOODSON INSTITUTE FOR AFRO-AMERICAN AND AFRICAN STUDIES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Institute for Afro-American and African Studies be and it is hereby named the Carter G. Woodson Institute for Afro-American and African Studies.

APPROVAL OF THE SOCIAL SCIENCE MAJOR IN THE BACHELOR OF SCIENCES AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Social Science Major at Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia be and it is hereby approved.

INCREASE IN SUMMER TUITION AND FEES FOR 1982
--------------------------------------------

Actual 1981

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 1982

FULL TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEE

Registration

$ 6.00

$ --

\--

$ 6.00

Diploma

1.00

\--

\--

1.00

Intramurals

4.00

\--

\--

4.00

Newcomb Hall

5.00

1.00

20.0%

6.00

Drama

1.00

\--

\--

1.00

Student Health

23.00

2.00

8.7%

25.00

Transportation

7.00

1.00

14.3%

8.00

TOTAL

$47.00

$ 4.00

8.5%

$51.00

PART TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEE

Registration

$ 6.00

$ --

\--

$ 6.00

Diploma

1.00

\--

\--

1.00

Intramurals

1.75

\--

\--

1.75

Newcomb Hall

2.25

.50

22.2%

2.75

Drama

.50

\--

\--

.50

Student Health

17.00

2.00

11.8%

19.00

Transportation

3.50

.50

14.3%

4.00

$32.00

$ 3.00

9.4%

$35.00

TUITION

Virginian (per semester hour)

$35.00

$ 5.00

14.3%

$40.00

Non-Virginian (per semester hour)

70.00

10.00

14.3%

80.00

Thesis/Dissertation Research

105.00

10.00

9.5%

115.00

APPELLATE JUDGES PROGRAM

$315.00

$45.00

14.3%

$360.00

NON-RESIDENT FEE

Proposed fee is equal to the Board approved fee for the Regular Session

$ 15.00

$10.00

66.7%

$ 25.00

Actual 1981

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1982

Lab Fee and Field Trip

$ 25.00

$ 4.00

16.0%

$29.00

Insurance

2.00

\--

\--

2.00

Pre-Doctoral Research Fee Per Term:

Virginian

105.00

10.00

9.5%

115.00

Non-virginian

210.00

20.00

9.5%

230.00

Post doctoral Laboratory:

Fee per week

40.00

6.00

15.0%

46.00

MT. LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Each Person 17 years of age & older

$225.00

\--

\--

$225.00

Each Person 10-16 years of age

150.00

\--

\--

150.00

Each Person 9 years of age & younger

90.00

\--

\--

90.00

MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

6/1/81 - 8/31/81

Dormitories

$ 50.00

5.00

10.0%

55.00

Cottages

Laing Singles

50.00

5.00

10.0%

55.00

Laing Center

70.00

7.00

10.0%

77.00

North

60.00

6.00

10.0%

66.00

South

60.00

6.00

10.0%

66.00

Northwest

60.00

6.00

10.0%

66.00

West

70.00

7.00

10.0%

77.00

Hentz-Mohr

90.00

9.00

10.0%

99.00

with kitchen

110.00

11.00

10.0%

121.00

Clayton

90.00

9.00

10.0%

99.00

Catesby

75.00

8.00

10.7%

83.00

Gattinger

75.00

8.00

10.7%

83.00

Michaux

90.00

9.00

10.0%

99.00

with kitchen

110.00

11.00

10.0%

121.00

Washington

80.00

8.00

10.0%

88.00

Banister

80.00

8.00

10.0%

88.00

LeConte

80.00

8.00

10.0%

88.00

Hariot

80.00

8.00

10.0%

88.00

Schoew

80.00

8.00

10.0%

88.00

Maphis

80.00

8.00

10.0%

88.00

Holbrook

80.00

8.00

10.0%

88.00

Mitchell

80.00

8.00

10.0%

88.00

Rafinesque

70.00

7.00

10.0%

77.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Summer Session fees for the University Division be and they are hereby increased as follows, effective beginning with the Summer Session of 1982:Actual 1981Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed 1982FULL TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEERegistration$ 6.00$ ----$ 6.00Diploma1.00----1.00Intramurals4.00----4.00Newcomb Hall5.001.0020.0%6.00Drama1.00----1.00Student Health23.002.008.7%25.00Transportation7.001.0014.3%8.00TOTAL$47.00$ 4.008.5%$51.00PART TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEERegistration$ 6.00$ ----$ 6.00Diploma1.00----1.00Intramurals1.75----1.75Newcomb Hall2.25.5022.2%2.75Drama.50----.50Student Health17.002.0011.8%19.00Transportation3.50.5014.3%4.00$32.00$ 3.009.4%$35.00TUITIONVirginian (per semester hour)$35.00$ 5.0014.3%$40.00Non-Virginian (per semester hour)70.0010.0014.3%80.00Thesis/Dissertation Research105.0010.009.5%115.00APPELLATE JUDGES PROGRAM$315.00$45.0014.3%$360.00NON-RESIDENT FEEProposed fee is equal to the Board approved fee for the Regular Session$ 15.00$10.0066.7%$ 25.00

The Summer Session registration fee and tuition rates also apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station. In addition the following special fees apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station:

Actual 1981 Amount of Increase Percent Increase Proposed 1982 Lab Fee and Field Trip $ 25.00 $ 4.00 16.0% $29.00 Insurance 2.00 -- -- 2.00 Pre-Doctoral Research Fee Per Term: Virginian 105.00 10.00 9.5% 115.00 Non-virginian 210.00 20.00 9.5% 230.00 Post doctoral Laboratory: Fee per week 40.00 6.00 15.0% 46.00 MT. LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS) Each Person 17 years of age & older $225.00 -- -- $225.00 Each Person 10-16 years of age 150.00 -- -- 150.00 Each Person 9 years of age & younger 90.00 -- -- 90.00 MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS) 6/1/81 - 8/31/81 Dormitories $ 50.00 5.00 10.0% 55.00 Cottages Laing Singles 50.00 5.00 10.0% 55.00 Laing Center 70.00 7.00 10.0% 77.00 North 60.00 6.00 10.0% 66.00 South 60.00 6.00 10.0% 66.00 Northwest 60.00 6.00 10.0% 66.00 West 70.00 7.00 10.0% 77.00 Hentz-Mohr 90.00 9.00 10.0% 99.00 with kitchen 110.00 11.00 10.0% 121.00 Clayton 90.00 9.00 10.0% 99.00 Catesby 75.00 8.00 10.7% 83.00 Gattinger 75.00 8.00 10.7% 83.00 Michaux 90.00 9.00 10.0% 99.00 with kitchen 110.00 11.00 10.0% 121.00 Washington 80.00 8.00 10.0% 88.00 Banister 80.00 8.00 10.0% 88.00 LeConte 80.00 8.00 10.0% 88.00 Hariot 80.00 8.00 10.0% 88.00 Schoew 80.00 8.00 10.0% 88.00 Maphis 80.00 8.00 10.0% 88.00 Holbrook 80.00 8.00 10.0% 88.00 Mitchell 80.00 8.00 10.0% 88.00 Rafinesque 70.00 7.00 10.0% 77.00

Other Rental Plans

Rafinesque -

September - May: $11/night for 1 or 2 persons or $70/week; $3/night for each additional person.

September - November and March - May: $220/month

December - February: $248/month

INCREASE IN STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 1982-1983INCREASE IN STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 1982-1983 - Continued
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Facility

Actual 1981-82 Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1982-83 Per Student Per Session

DORMITORIES

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Double Room

$ 860

$ 100

11.6%

$ 960

Monroe Hill

Double Room

$ 945

$ 105

11.1%

$1050

Triple Room

$ 740

$ 100

13.5%

$ 840

McCormick Road

Double Room

$ 795

$ 105

13.2%

$ 900

Small Double Room

$ 685

$ 90

13.1%

$ 775

Lawn

Small Single

$ 940

$ 100

10.6%

$1040

Small Single (no fireplace)

$ 880

$ 120

13.6%

$1000

Regular Single

$ 980

$ 120

12.2%

$1100

Range

Regular Single

$ 955

$ 105

11.0%

$1060

Crackerbox

Double Room

$ 885

$ 115

13.0%

$1000

Mary Munford/Roberta Gwalthmey

Double Room

$ 860

$ 100

11.6%

$ 960

Single Room

$ 960

$ 100

10.4%

$1060

APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENT

Copeley Hill Phase III & IV, Nurses, Lambeth Field

Two Bedroom

$1050

$ 100

9.5%

$1150

Three Bedroom

$ 990

$ 100

10.1%

$1090

APARTMENTS - FAMILY

1981-82 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1982-83 Per Month

Copeley Hill, Phases I & II

One Bedroom

$ 220

$ 25

11.4%

$ 245 mo.

Two Bedroom

$ 240

$ 30

12.5%

$ 270 mo.

Three Bedroom

$ 265

$ 30

11.3%

$ 295 mo.

University Gardens

One Bedroom

$ 215

$ 20

9.3%

$ 235 mo.

Two Bedroom

$ 235

$ 25

10.6%

$ 260 mo.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that rental increases for student housing facilities be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective beginning with the Session 1982-83:FacilityActual 1981-82 Per Student Per SessionAmount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1982-83 Per Student Per SessionDORMITORIESAlderman/Observatory HousesDouble Room$ 860$ 10011.6%$ 960Monroe HillDouble Room$ 945$ 10511.1%$1050Triple Room$ 740$ 10013.5%$ 840McCormick RoadDouble Room$ 795$ 10513.2%$ 900Small Double Room$ 685$ 9013.1%$ 775LawnSmall Single$ 940$ 10010.6%$1040Small Single (no fireplace)$ 880$ 12013.6%$1000Regular Single$ 980$ 12012.2%$1100RangeRegular Single$ 955$ 10511.0%$1060CrackerboxDouble Room$ 885$ 11513.0%$1000Mary Munford/Roberta GwalthmeyDouble Room$ 860$ 10011.6%$ 960Single Room$ 960$ 10010.4%$1060APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENTCopeley Hill Phase III & IV, Nurses, Lambeth FieldTwo Bedroom$1050$ 1009.5%$1150Three Bedroom$ 990$ 10010.1%$1090

APARTMENTS - FAMILY 1981-82 Per Month Amount of Increase Percent Increase Proposed 1982-83 Per Month Copeley Hill, Phases I & II One Bedroom $ 220 $ 25 11.4% $ 245 mo. Two Bedroom $ 240 $ 30 12.5% $ 270 mo. Three Bedroom $ 265 $ 30 11.3% $ 295 mo. University Gardens One Bedroom $ 215 $ 20 9.3% $ 235 mo. Two Bedroom $ 235 $ 25 10.6% $ 260 mo.

These rates include all utility costs, TV cable in apartments and post office box rental where applicable.

PROCEDURE FOR CANCELLING UNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS AND RECONSTITUTION OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee, composed of the Associate Director for Finance of the Hospital, the Controller of the Hospital, and the Assistant Vice President for Health Affairs Finance and Comptroller, be and it is hereby authorized to:1. Charge off as bad debts or free service delayed charges up to $35.00 and small balances up to $25.00.2. Recommend delinquent accounts to collection agencies and attorneys who have been approved in the Office of the Attorney General.3. Refer to the Board of Visitors any amounts over and above $25.00 which are to be written off as bad debts or free service.4. Refer to the President any amounts over and above $25.00 which are to be compromised, settled, or discharged under current statutes.RESOLVED FURTHER that the resolution of June 4, 1971, naming the Hospital Accounts Committee as the Comptroller for Medical Affairs, the Hospital Controller, and the Director of the University Hospital be and it is hereby rescinded.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

University of Virginia Hospital:

Bad Debts

$ 878,234.69

Free Service

$6,545,324.37

\-------------

Total

$7,423,559.06

Blue Ridge Hospital Division:

Bad Debts

\- 0 -

Free Service

$946,487.30

\-------------

Total

$946,487.30

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts listed on University of Virginia Hospital schedule numbers 419 through 430 for the months of August through November, 1981, totaling $7,423,559.06, and Blue Ridge Hospital Division schedule numbers 469 through 478 for the months of August through November, 1981 totaling $946,487.30 consisting of the following:University of Virginia Hospital:Bad Debts$ 878,234.69Free Service$6,545,324.37-------------Total$7,423,559.06Blue Ridge Hospital Division:Bad Debts- 0 -Free Service$946,487.30-------------Total$946,487.30RESOLVED FURTHER, that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of the debts represented by such accounts.

RESOLUTION ON A REVISED MEDICAL CENTER MASTER PLAN AND NEW MEDICAL CENTER FACILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Board approve the recommendation of the University of Virginia Master Plan Committee that the first three sections of the report, Master Plan Update 1981, University of Virginia Medical Center, submitted by Maurice W. Perreault and Associates, Inc., be and it is hereby approved, except that no existing Medical Center buildings shall be demolished and that all space released by the construction of a new hospital shall be reassigned after a careful study of all University space needs; andBE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that no action is taken on the remainder of the report; andBE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that land owned by the University lying south of Jefferson Park Avenue and east of Lane Road be and it is hereby reserved as the site for the possible future construction of a new hospital facility; andBE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the University be authorized to proceed with pre-planning studies for a new hospital facility.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE APPROVAL OF AGREEMENT OF SALE FOR "OVERLOOK" (CUMMINGS ESTATE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee on November 30, 1981, regarding the Approval of Agreement of Sale for "Overlook" (Cummings Estate).

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE UNANIMOUS CONSENT OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE VEPCO EASEMENTS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee on December 18, 1981, regarding the unanimous consent of the Committee of the VEPCO Easements.

BOND AUTHORIZATION - FOOD SERVICE CENTER AND MEDICAL CENTER PARKING GARAGE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 481 of the Acts of the General Assembly of Virginia of 1981, the Treasury Board was authorized, by and with the consent of the Governor, to sell and issue bonds of the Commonwealth of Virginia in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding $23,475,000 for the purpose of providing funds, with any other available funds, for paying the cost of acquiring, constructing, and equipping revenue producing capital projects, including the enlarging and improving thereof, at institutions of higher learning in the Commonwealth, all in accordance with the provisions of Section 9 (c) of Article X of the Constitution of Virginia; andWHEREAS, said revenue producing capital projects include medical center parking facilities and food service building (the "Projects") for the University of Virginia at a cost not to exceed $1,925,000 and $850,000, respectively; andWHEREAS, the Treasury Board proposes to sell a portion of said bonds equal to $12,315,000, designated "Higher Educational Institutions Bonds, 1982 Series A" (the "Bonds"), which includes an amount equal to $2,700,000 for the purpose of financing the cost of the Projects:NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:Section 1. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") (a) covenants to fix, revise, charge, and collect rates, fees and charges (including rentals for space and food service revenues) for or in connection with the use, occupation, or services of the Projects, and (b) pledges said rates, fees and charges to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Projects; provided that the current expenses of operating the Projects (the "Current Expenses") shall be a first charge on such rates, fees and charges. The University further covenants that such rates, fees and charges will be fixed, revised, charged and collected so that the net revenues from the Projects, after payment of Current Expenses, will at all times be sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Projects. Any such revenues in excess of the amounts required for the payment of Current Expenses and the payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Projects may be used by the University for any other proper purpose.Section 2. It is hereby found, determined, and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates and advice of appropriate officials of the University, the anticipated net revenues from the Projects pledged above will be sufficient to pay Current Expenses and the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Projects, as the same become due, so long as the interest rate on the Bonds does not exceed 12 percent per annum.Section 3. The University covenants that so long as the Bonds are outstanding, the University will pay to the Treasurer of Virginia not less than 30 days before June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning June 1, 1982, the amount certified by the Treasurer of Virginia to be due and payable on such June 1 or December 1 as principal, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the Bonds issued on behalf of the University to finance the Projects.Section 4. The University covenants that it will pay from time to time its proportionate share of all expenses incurred in connection with the sale and issuance of the Bonds and all expenses thereafter incurred in connection with the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds all as certified by the Treasurer of Virginia to the University.

GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
----------------------------

The Board of Visitors accepted $8,174,589 in Federal Grants and Contracts for the period September 1, 1981, through December 31, 1981 and $3,950,600 in private gifts for the period September 22, 1981, through January 7, 1982.

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING PURCHASE OF CAT SCANNER
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, The University Hospital has budgeted for a CAT Scanner during the 1981-82 fiscal year to provide improved patient care; andWHEREAS, funds are available for the purchase of said CAT Scanner;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Vice President for Business and Finance be authorized to execute a contract and other documents to acquire a CAT Scanner for patient care in the University Hospital, at a cost not to exceed $1,457,000.

AUTHORIZATION FOR CERTAIN UNIVERSITY EMPLOYEES TO EXECUTE DOCUMENTS
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has by previous resolutions, granted authority to certain University of Virginia employees to execute various documents on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia public corporation; andWHEREAS, the Board now wishes to amend that authorization to provide for a change in officer title.NOW THEREFORE IT IS RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia as follows:1. President, Vice President for Business and Finance (Comptroller) and Assistant Vice President for FinanceThe President, Vice President for Business and Finance (who as Comptroller is an Officer of the Board), and the Assistant Vice President for Finance, of the University, are hereby authorized, jointly and separately, subject to the limitations in subparagraphs (b) through (g) hereof, to execute in the name of and on behalf of the University any or all documents in whatever form and for whatever purpose, including, but not limited to, the following:(a) Deeds, leases, contracts, certificates receipts, deeds of trust, promissory notes, bonds, checks, tax returns and reports, claims for refund, releases, waivers, bills of sale, stock certificates, proxies, security agreements, financing statements, affidavits, pleadings, and responses to interrogatories.Such employees are authorized to execute any or all of such documents which they, jointly or separately, feel in their sole discretion should be executed, and such discretion may be exercised without any necessity of prior approval, or ratification, by the Board of Visitors or any committee thereof, except that such employees may only execute the following documents with the prior approval of the Board of Visitors, or the Executive Committee thereof, and shall execute such documents as directed by such Board or Committee:(b) Deeds, contracts and any other documents by which the University conveys, or contracts to convey, any of its real estate or interest in real estate, excluding leasehold interests;(c) Contracts, leases and any other documents by which the University leases, or contracts to lease, any of its real estate for more than six months with an effective monthly rental exceeding $1,000;(d) Contracts and any other documents by which the University acquires, or contracts to acquire, any real estate, or real estate interest, excluding leasehold interests;(e) Contracts, leases and any other documents by which the University acquires, or contracts to acquire, any leasehold interest in real estate for more than one year with an effective annual rental exceeding $100,000;(f) Contracts and any other documents by which the University acquires, or contracts to acquire, by purchase, lease or otherwise, goods for an amount exceeding $1,000,000;(g) Contracts and any other documents by which the University acquires, or contracts to acquire, services for an amount exceeding $250,000.2. Secretary and Assistant Secretary of the Board of VisitorsThe Secretary and the Assistant Secretary of the Board of Visitors are hereby authorized, jointly and separately, to affix the corporate seal of the University to any or all of the documents described in this resolution, to attest such seal, and to execute certificates concerning the continued effectiveness of this or any other resolution of the Board, or any amendment thereto, and such authority may be exercised, jointly or separately, in their sole discretion without any necessity of prior approval, or ratification, by the Board of Visitors or any committee thereof.3. DelegationThe President, Vice President for Business and Finance (who is also the Comptroller) and the Assistant Vice President for Finance, of the University are hereby authorized, jointly and separately, to delegate to other University employees any or all of the authority to execute any documents other than those described in subparagraphs 1 (b) through (g) above, provided that:(a) each delegation shall be in writing and shall be to a named individual, and(b) each delegation shall specify the types of documents which may be executed, including any applicable dollar limitation.4. Rescission of Previous ResolutionsAll previous resolutions authorizing University employees to execute documents in the name and on behalf of the University are hereby rescinded. Such rescission shall not in any way affect the validity of any documents signed under the authority of any such previous resolution.

EASEMENT TO THE CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE FOR A STORM SEWER IN THE MEMORIAL GYMNASIUM AREA
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that an easement to the City of Charlottesville be and it is hereby approved to permit the City to operate, maintain and repair a 24 inch storm sewer line in the Memorial Gymnasium area.

CONVEYANCE OF LAND TO THE STATE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION FOR AN ACCESS ROAD TO THE BIRDWOOD PROPERTY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the conveyance of a parcel of land to the State Department of Transportation for an access road from the Birdwood property to U. S. Route 250 be and it is hereby approved.

STATEMENT BY THE RECTOR
-----------------------

The Rector expressed appreciation to four Members of the Board who have served two terms, and noted with regret that this is the last meeting of the Board for the participation of Mrs. Virginia Rogers Holton, Dr. DuPont Guerry, III, Mr. Howard W. McCall, Jr. and Mr. George C. Palmer, II. He said that all four of these Members had given of their time and great talents to make the University great, and he told them that they will be called upon for assistance in the future. He concluded by wishing all of them well as they retire from membership on the Board of Visitors.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERLEAVE OF ABSENCE
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member at Clinch Valley College be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. John G. Blackburn, Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982, for research.

DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERRESIGNATION
--------------------------------------------------

The President announced the following resignation in the Division of Continuing Education: Mr. Gerd F. Mueller, Associate Professor of Continuing Education, Division of Continuing Education, effective November 30, 1981, to accept another position.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 11:17 a.m.

RCB:jb