Board of Visitors minutes (1985) January 25, 1985
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

January 25, 1985

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2008

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS of THE UNIVERSITY of VIRGINIA January 25, 1985
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 11:00 a.m., in Open Session on January 24, 1985, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., and John S. Battle, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, James S. Cremins, Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Henry A. Dudley, Edward E. Elson, William R. Harvey, Carl W. Smith, James L. Trinkle, E. Massie Valentine, Neal O. Wade, Jr., Edgar N. Weaver, Gregory C. Whitehead, Jesse B, Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Warren Jr., Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Ernest H. Ern, Raymond M. Haas, Edwin E. Floyd, William H. Muller, Marion B. Peavey, and George G, Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia reconvened in Open Session on January 25, 1985, at 2:30 p.m., in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., PresidentÂ¬ Elect Robert M. O'Neil, John S. Battle, Jr., William M, Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, James S. Cremins, Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Henry A. Dudley, Edward E. Elson, Carl W, Smith, James L, Trinkle, E. Massie Valentine, Neal O. Wade, Jr., Edgar N. Weaver, Gregory C. Whitehead and Jesse B. Wilson, III. Absent were William R. Harvey and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr., Messrs. Ray C, Hunt, Jr., Ernest H. Ern, Raymond M. Haas, Edwin E. Floyd, William H. Muller, Marion B. Peavey, and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of October 5, 1985, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

The following motions were unanimously adopted by vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Beard of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 9 on that Committees agenda for the discussion and evaluation of the performance of University departments or schools if individual employees might be affected by the evaluation.(b) That the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 10 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider the acquisition or disposition of real property for a public purpose if that discussion could affect the value of property owned by or desirable for ownership by the University as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (9)(2) of the Virginia Code.(c) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for consultation with legal counsel pertaining to actual and potential litigation, or other legal matters within the jurisdiction of the Board, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (6) of the Virginia Code.

STATEMENT BY THE RECTORReport of the Special Committee on the Nomination of A President By Fred G. Pollard, Rector University of Virginia January 24, 1985
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For only the sixth time in the University of Virginia's long and distinguished history, the Board of Visitors meets today to receive the nomination of a new President. The election of a President is the single most important action that this body can take, and our decision today will introduce a new era-for this great institution —; as has been the case with the election of each of the previous Presidents since 1904.

On March 16, 1984, Frank L. Hereford Jr., advised the Board that he wished to relinquish the Office of President by the end of his eleventh year, the Summer of 1985. He has served the University with such distinction and dedication that the Board could do no less than honor his request.

As prescribed by the Manual of the Board of Visitors, I appointed a Special Committee on the Nomination of a President.

At the same time, the Faculty Senate and the Student Council were asked to form committees to make nominations to the Special Committee. The Committee also sought nominations from the Alumni and others. I cannot say enough about the quality of the work carried out by the students and the faculty. Their deliberations and insight were of great value to the Board's Special Committee and the caliber of the nominees that they submitted was outstanding. In all, 312 nominations were received. The faculty submitted 17 names as being qualified and the students submitted 28 names. Ten of those on the students' list were also on the faculty list. The man we recommend was high on both lists.

I would be remiss not to thank the members of the Search Committee for their untiring efforts. We met on ten occasions and in addition we studied hundreds of pages of reports. I think their reward is that we all feel that we have found the best possible man for the University.

The Committee sought most to find a person who could build on the tremendous momentum provided by Frank Hereford's leadership. During this period the University has made enormous strides academically. We have just completed the most successful three-year fund drive of any publicly supported institution of higher learning. Our new $225 million hospital is funded and ready for construction.

We have become competitive in intercollegiate athletics. The students who come here are unmatched. We enjoy a strong relationship with the executive and legislative branches of the Commonwealth.

In short, the momentum generated by Frank Hereford has made it possible for any qualified Virginian to attend a nationally-recognized university without having to leave the Commonwealth. We believe we have found the man to accelerate that momentum -to lead the University to new heights during its next era. He is Robert Marchant O'Neil. A distinguished scholar and writer by any measure, he is President of the University of Wisconsin system and one of its law professors. The Wisconsin system has an annual budget of $1.3 billion.

Impressive as that may sound, the Special Committee was even more persuaded by Mr. O'Neil's commitment to values that have long been identified with the University of Virginia, such as the importance of the liberal arts in the education of all men and women. He is an excellent classroom teacher and has written extensively on contemporary issues—;particularly on the First Amendment. He has gained important experience at the university level as chief academic and administrative officer at Indiana University's Bloomington campus and as vice president and provost for academic affairs at the University of Cincinnati.

He received his Bachelor's and Master's degrees in American History from Harvard University and his law degree from Harvard in 1961.

Mr. O'Neil is well known for his skills in working on behalf of higher education at the state and federal legislative levels. He is an able fund raiser.

He is highly regarded in national higher education circles, serving on the boards of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, the Council on Post-Secondary Accreditation, the Educational Testing Service and the Johnson Foundation. He chairs the Financial Resource Development Committee of the Center for Research Libraries and the Legal Affairs Committee of the National Association of State Universities and Land-Grant Colleges.

The Committee recognized, also, that Mr. O'Neil's wife, Karen, would be a special asset to the University family as would their four children. Mrs. O'Neil, a Vassar graduate, is a gracious hostess, and is a scholar in her own right. She was co-author with her husband of a book, Civil Liberties: Case Studies and the Law.

Wherever our committee turned its search these last ten months, Robert O'Neil's name came forward. Leaders in higher learning throughout the country told us, "Bob O'Neil is the man you want." We found them right.

The Search Committee recommends that Mr. O'Neil be elected the University's next President.

NOMINATION OF ROBERT MARCHANT O'NEIL AS PRESIDENT
-------------------------------------------------

Mr. Carl W. Smith placed in nomination the name of Robert Marchant O'Neil as President. The nomination was seconded by Mr. John S. Battle, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, and Mr. Joshua P. Darden, Jr. There were no other nominations.

ELECTION OF ROBERT MARCHANT O'NEIL AS PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY AND AS GEORGE M. KAUFMAN PROFESSOR OF LAW
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was unanimously adopted: RESOLVED that Robert Marchant O'Neil be and he is hereby elected President of the University of Virginia and George M. Kaufman Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1985.

PRESENTATION OF THE PRESIDENT-ELECT TO THE BOARD
------------------------------------------------

Mr. O'Neil was escorted to the meeting room of the Board of Visitors and was presented to the Visitors by the Rector.

RESOLUTION OF THANKS TO THE RECTOR AND THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE NOMINATION OF A PRESIDENT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the sincere thanks of the Board of Visitors be expressed to our Rector, Mr. Fred G. Pollard, and to our fellow Visitors, Mr. John S. Battle, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, Mr. Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Mr. Carl W. Smith, Mr. E. Massie Valentine, and Dr. Edgar N. Weaver for the outstanding work they have done incident to making a nomination for the high office of President of the University of Virginia. We particularly appreciate the contributions of the faculty and student committees for the excellent reports they provided for the use of the Special Committee. We also express appreciation and thanks to Mr. Vincent Shea for his distinguished work as Secretary of the Committee.

Following a recess for Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 2:30 p.m., on January 25, 1985.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Ms. Rosalyn W. Berne as Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 10, 1984, at an annual salary of $20,000.Mr. Charles S. Carman as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period September 16, 1984 through August 31, 1985, at an annual salary of $25,000.Ms. Anne M. Chiles as Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for one year, effective January 1, 1985, at an annual salary of $16,500.Mr. Eugene D. Conley, Jr. as Lecturer in Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, at an academic year salary of $18,000.Mr. Rickie R. Davis as Instructor in Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, at an academic year salary of $20,000.Mr. S. Rent Dohrman as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective October 30, 1984, at an annual salary of $50,000.Mr. James H. Fetzer as Visiting Professor of Philosophy, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985, at a salary of $18,000.Dr. Carol M. Gilbert as Assistant Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective August 1, 1984, at an annual salary of $5,500.Mr. Charles T. Gillet as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective October l, 1984, at an annual salary of $46,000.Mr. James W. Granade as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period November 1, 1984, through June 30, 1987, at an annual salary of $21,000.Ms. Elaine M. Hadden as Lecturer, General Faculty, School of Law, or three years, effective October 8, 1984, at an annual salary of $24,000.Ms. Chanda J. Jog as Instructor in Astronomy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, at an academic year salary of $21,000.Ms. Linda M. Miller as Research Instructor, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1984, through August 31, 1985, at an annual salary of $28,000.Mr. Fred Palka as Instructor in Mathematics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $9,500.Dr. Jorge R. Rivera-Irias as Assistant Professor of Surgery, Salem Program, for the period October 1, 1984 through December 31, 1986, at an annual salary of $800.Mr. Wolfgang Ruch as Research Assistant Professor of Materials Science, for three years, effective October 1, 1984, at an annual salary of $36,000.Mr. Michael C. Schuch as Instructor in Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, for one year, effective October 1, 1984, at an annual salary of $42,000.Mr. Steven M. Seubert as Instructor in Mathematics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $8,000.Mr. Peter Shaw as Visiting Professor of English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985, at a salary of $23,000.Dr. Frank F. Tellian as Assistant Professor, Department of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for the period September 1, 1984, through June 30, 1987, at an annual salary of $800.Mr. Arthur Weltman as Associate Professor of Education, for the period January 16, 1985, through May 31, 1988, at a salary of $34,000.Mr. John K. Whitmore as Visiting Associate Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985, at a salary of $17,000.Mr. Ronald D. Williams as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three academic years, effective January 16, 1985, at an academic year salary of $34,000.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

Mr. Howard M. Bahr as Visiting Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $9,000. Mr. Francis C. Biasiolli, Jr. as Lecturer in Sociology, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $2,250. Mr. Attilio A. Cafolla as Instructor in Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $10,000. Ms. Laurel P. Costa as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period January 1, 1985, through June 30, 1985, at a salary of $6,000. Mr. D. Reber Dunkel as instructor in Sociology, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $4,200. Ms. Ann E.Fordham as Instructor in Education, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985, at a salary of $5,000. Ms. Leslie A. Gossage as Instructor in English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $7,000. Mr. Richard F. Hamm as Instructor in History, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $3,500. Mr. Frederik A. Hamm as Instructor in Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $10,000. Mr. Michael R. Kehoe as Instructor in Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985, at a salary of $4,200. Ms. Silvia C. Kersusan-Zaretsky as Instructor in French, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $3,250. Ms. cynthia A. Kierner as Instructor in History, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $3,500. Mr. Christopher F. Lee as Instructor in History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984, at a salary of $3,500. Mr. Stephen L. Little as Lecturer in Architectural History, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $5,000. Mr. L. Keith Loftin, III as Lecturer in Architecture, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $5,500. Mr. John C. Lowe as Lecturer in Law, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $2,000. Mr. John C. Lowe as Instructor in Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $8,400. Mr. Arthur J. Murton as Research Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for the period September 1, 1984 through October 31, 1984, at a salary of $5,625. Ms. Margaret P. Schwartz as Instructor in Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985, at a salary of $4,200. Mr. Gennady Shkliarevsky as Instructor in History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985, at a salary of $3,500. Ms. Clare Shore as Lecturer in Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $5,000. Ms. Deborah S. Short as Instructor in Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, for one year, effective November 19, 1984, at an annual salary of $12,650. Ms. Elizabeth S. Tenney as Instructor in Art, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $2,400. Mr. William Van Doren as Instructor in Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $5,500. Mr. Emil Vrabie as Lecturer in Slavic Languages and Literatures, for the period October 1, 1984 through January 15, 1985, at a salary of $4,000. Mr. David Walsh as visiting Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985, at a salary of $5,000. Ms. Elizabeth B. Waters as Lecturer in Planning, School of Architecture, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, at a salary of $3,200.

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

Mr. Hafiz M. Ayoub as visiting Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period October 16, 1984 through November 15, 1984. Mr. Paul Benneche as Instructor in Nuclear Engineering, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985. Mr. Joel N. Bregman as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1984. Mr. Don A. Christensen as Visiting Lecturer in Business Administration, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985. Mr. Kenneth I. Kellermann as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1984. Mr. Jaihiun Kim as Visiting Scholar in English, for one year, effective September 1, 1985. Dr. Elias Perentes as Visiting Instructor in Pathology, for one year, effective October 1, 1984. Mr. H. Steve Sharp as Scholar in Residence, Department of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 12, 1984. Mr. William A. Shaver as Assistant Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective August 1, 1984. Dr. Arthur R. Slaughter as Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective October 1, 1984.

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

Ms. Carol Burrage as Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective December 1, 1984. Ms. Terry L. Cass as Clinical Assistant Professor of Nursing, for the period September 1, 1984 through June 30, 1987. Mrs. Patricia A. Cheeksas Clinical Instructor in Nursing, for the period January 1, 1985 through June 30, 1988. Mr. King E. Davis as Clinical Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for two years, effective January 1, 1985. Mrs. Amy L. Feldman as Clinical Instructor in Nursing, for the period December 1, 1984 through June 30, 1987. Mr. Lynwood P. Harding as Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective December 1, 1984. Dr. Dr. Paul F. Hine as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective September 1, 1984. Dr. Janice E. Luth as Clinical Assistant Professor of Nursing, for the period January 1, 1985 through June 30, 1988. Dr. Susan E. Mackel as Clinical Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for one year, effective July 1, 1984. Dr. Peter T. Mellis as Clinical Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective January 1, 1985. Dr. Douglas L. Nelson as Clinical Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for one year, effective July 1, 1984. Ms. Charlotte S. Parcell as Clinical Instructor in Nursing, for the period September 1, 1984 through June 30, 1987. Ms. Shirley C. Pisarek as Clinical Instructor in Nursing, for the period September 1, 1984 through June 30, 1985. Dr. Robert D. Powers as Clinical Assistant Professor of Nursing, for the period December 1, 1984 through June 30, 1987. Ms. Beverly K. Reger as Clinical Instructor in Nursing, for the period September 13, 1984 through June 30, 1987. Ms. Doris J. Sabo as Clinical Assistant Professor of Nursing, for the period September 1, 1984 through June 30, 1987. Dr. F. Lee Tucker as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective September 1, 1984. Mr. Christopher P. Unger as Clinical Assistant Professor of Nursing, for the period November 1, 1984 through June 30, 1987. Dr. Jeffrey W. Wilson as Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective January 1, 1985.

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF MR. ERHARD SEILER
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Mr. Erhard Seiler, as approved by the Board on October 5, 1984, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Erhard Seiler as Visiting Professor of Mathematics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, at a part-time salary of $16,582.

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF LIEUTENANT NICHOLAS D. BARONE
-------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Lieutenant Nicholas D. Barone as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984, as approved by the Board on October 5, 1984, be and it is hereby cancelled.

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted; RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby approved as shown below:(a) ElectionsMr. Ronald M. Dworkin as John A. Ewald, Jr., Distinguished Visiting Professor of Law, for the period October 7, 1984, through October 10, 1984, at a salary of $4,000.William E. Fulmer as The Eleanor F. and Philip G. Rust Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for one year, effective January 16, 1985, at a salary of $55,000.Mr. Jaquelin T. Robertson as Commonwealth Professor of Architecture, effective July 1, 1985.(b) Correction in the Chair Election of Mr. Herman H. Shugart.Correct the election of Mr. Herman H. Shugart as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of October 5, 1984, to read as follows:Mr. Herman H. Shugart as William W. Corcoran Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective November 16, 1984.(c) Leaves of Absence of ChairholdersMr. Javier S. Herrero, William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Spanish, without pay, for the period February 1, 1985 through April 30, 1985, to be Visiting Mellon Professor at Tulane University.Mr. James S. McCarthy, W. L. Lyons Brown Professor Department of Physics without pay, for the period October 1, 1984, through June 30, 1985, to devote full time to the Continuous Electron Beam Accelerator Facility Project.Mr. Roland N. McKean, Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of Economics, with partial pay, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985, to do research.Mr. Leland B. Yeager, Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of Economics, without pay, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985, to teach at Auburn University.(d) Change of Title of ChairholdersMr. James F. Childress, from Commonwealth Professor of Religious Studies and Professor of Medical Education, to Edwin B. Kyle Professor of Christian Studies and Professor of Medical Education, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. John J. Dorning, from Whitney Stone Professor of Nuclear Engineering, to Whitney Stone Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Professor of Engineering Physics, effective August 16, 1984, at an annual salary of $79,400.(e) Resignation of ChairholderMr. Potter Stewart, John A. Ewald, Jr., Distinguished Visiting Professor of Law, effective October 14, 1984, due to illness.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mrs. Marjorie H. Andrews as Lecturer, General Faculty, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Michael D. Atchison as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Richard O. Bell as Professor of Psychology and Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective January 1, 1985.Mr. Mark A. Boster as Visiting Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985.Mr. Alan H. Bridle as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Arthur J. Bulger as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985. Dr. Chiriyankandath S. Chakko as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for the period January 1, 1985 through June 30, 1987.Mr. Stephen J. Colucci as Assistant Professor of Environmental, Sciences, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1985. Mr. James J. Condon as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1984. Mr. Ketih J. Crocker as Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period September 1, 1985 through January 15, 1988.Mr. Frederick C. Davis as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Steven R. Donaldson as Research Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for one year, effective January 1, 1985.Mr. Daniel J. Ehnbom as Visiting Scholar in Art, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Charkes S. Feigenoff as instructor in English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985.Mr. William\_B.\_Gartner as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985. Mr.Bernard S. Gerstman as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985.Mr. Saul Green as Visiting Professor of Surgery, for one year, effective November 1, 1984.Mr. James D. Hamilton as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Robert J. Haylen as Research Associate Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Mark E. Hawley as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. David S. Heeschen as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Janet S. Herman as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1985.Ms. Susan T. Hitchcock as Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985.Mr. David E. Hogg as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Janette C. Hudson as Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985.Ms. Marilyn S. James as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for the period December 9, 1984 through December 8, 1985.Ms. Judith L. Kovacs as Lecturer in Religious Studies part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Violette Lang as Lecturer in French, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Harvey S. Liszt, as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Felix J. Lockman as Research Associate Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Thomas A. Massaro as Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Janice L. McMillan as Assistant Professor of Education, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985.Dr. Wallace C. Nunley, Jr. as Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, and Assistant Professor oÂ¬ internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. William A. O'Brien as Assistant Professor of German, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Morton S. Roberts as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Jacques Roger as Visiting Professor of Biology, for one semester, effective September 1, 1985.Mrs. Marion W. Ross as Assistant Professor of Anthropology and French, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Robert T. Sanborn as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Thomas G. Sauer as Assistant Professor of German, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985.Dr. Charles J. Schleupner as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for the period January l, 1985 through June 30, 1987.Ms. Sandra L. Schmidt as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Wayman E. Scott as Commonwealth of Virginia Visiting Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for one year, effective July l, 1985.Mr. Jonathan S. Skinner as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Frederick C. Steward as Scholar in Residence in Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. John W. Stewart as Associate Professor of Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985.Ms. Susan E. Tulis as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Law Library, for the period January 1, 1985 through June 30, 1988.Mr. Barry E. Turner as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Sander Weintreb as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. William C. Wood as Assistant Professor of Economics, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Henry A. Wootten as Research Associate Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.

CANCELLATION OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. FARIBORZ K. GHADER
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the re-election of Mr. Fariborz K. Ghadar as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985, be and it is hereby cancelled.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Dr. Kenneth M. Heatwole, from Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Blue Ridge Hospital, to Clinical Professor of Internal Medicine, Blue Ridge Hospital, for three years, effective July 1, 1985.Dr. James A. Long, from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective March 1, 1985.Dr. Kenneth L. Marcella, from Instructor in Comparative Medicine, to Assistant Professor of Comparative Medicine, for one year, effective January 1, 1985.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Dr. M. Shannon Allen, Jr., Professor of Pathology, for the period January 1, 1985 through December 31, 1989, with partial pay, to qualify for the early retire ment plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Mr. Gordon M. Braden, Associate Professor of English, for one semester, without pay, effective January 16, 1985, to accept a teaching position at Columbia University.Mr. Robert E. Ellison, Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one semester, with partial pay, effective January 16, 1985, to do research.Mr. John W. Israel, Professor of History, for one semester, without pay, effective January 16, 1985, to do research.Mr. W. Reed Johnson, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one semester, with partial pay, effective September 1, 1984, for personal reasons.Ms. Holly A. Laird, Assistant Professor of English, for the period September 1, 1985 through May 31, 1986, with partial pay, to do research.Mr. Walter B. Moore, III, Assistant Professor of Humanities, for the period January 16, 1985 through January 15, 1989, without pay, to qualify for early retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Mr. Frederick S. Morton, Professor of Business Administration, for one semester, without pay, effective September 1, 1984, to qualify for the early retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Mr. Blaine E. Norum, Associate Professor of Physics, for the period October 1, 1984 through June 30, 1985, without pay, to devote full time to CEBAF project.Mr. Dennis R. Proffitt, Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one semester, without pay, effective January 16, 1985, to be Visiting Associate Professor at the University of Toronto.Mr. Thomas L. Schumacher, Associate Professor of Architecture, for one semester, without pay, effective January 16, 1985, to be a Visiting Professor at the University of Maryland.Mr. Roland H. Simon, Associate Professor of French, for one academic year, without pay, effective September 1, 1985, to be Director of Middlebury College's Graduate and Undergraduate Schools in Paris.Mr. John K. Steehler, Acting Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for the period September 1, 1984 through December 17, 1984, without pay, to complete research at the University of Wisconsin.Dr. Lester A. Wilson, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for the period July 1, 1984 through June 30, 1985, without pay, to extend a medical leave of absence.

CORRECTION IN THE LEAVE-OF ABSENCE OF MR. FREDERICK S. MORTON
-------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Mr. Frederick S. Morton, as approved by the Board on June 1, 1984, be changed to read as follows;Mr. Frederick S. Morton, Professor of Business Administration, for the period January 16, 1985 through May 31, 1985, without pay, in accordance with the early retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Joseph A. Brown from Acting Assistant Professor of English to Acting Assistant Professor of English and Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. William P. Gardner, from Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, to Assistant Professor of Psychology, for the period January 16, 1985, through May 31, 1987.Ms. Janine C. Jagger from Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, (Epidemiology and Virology) to Assistant Professor of Epidemiology and Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for the period October 16, 1984 through June 30, 1987.Joli K. Jensen from Acting Assistant Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies to Assistant Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Steven I. Reger from Associate Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, G.M.F., and Associate Professor of Biomedical, Engineering, General Medical Faculty, for the period October 1, 1984 through June 30, 1986.Mr. Dana Richards from Acting Assistant Professor of Computer Science to Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Steven E. Sayre from Clinical Assistant Professor of Social Work to Clinical Assistant Professor of Social Work and Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for the period November 1, 1984 through June 30, 1986.Dr. Theresa L. Steckler from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State to Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period November 1, 1984 through June 30, 1987.Dr. Victor Vieweg from Associate Professor of Behavioral. Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State to Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period November 1, 1984 through July 15, 1987.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Maurice Apprey, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective October 1, 1984, At an annual salary of $42,319.Mr. John A. Blackburn, Associate Professor, General Faculty, and Associate Dean of Admissions, effective November l1, 1984, At an annual salary of $40,000. Mr. Ronald A. Bouchard, Lecturer, General Faculty, And Assistant Vice President for Personnel Administration, effective October 9, 1984, At an annual salary of $58,000.Mr. Giorgio Carta, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective September 1, 1984, At an annual salary of$41,500.Mr. William R. Carter, Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective January 1, 1985, At an annual salary of $26,400.Ms. Doris Kuhlmann-Wilsdorf, University Professor of Applied Science, effective September 1, 1984, At an academic year salary of $47,800.Ms. Elaine F. Littman, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective November 1, 1984, At an annual salary of $45,000.Ms. Linda A. Moore, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective September 1, 1984, At an academic year salary of $25,000.Ms. Patricia Portfield, Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective October 1, 1984, At an annual salary of $48,019.Mr. John Scott Professor of Aerospace Engineering, effective September 1, 1984, At an academic year salary of $56,800.Mr. Steven P. Wartik, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, effective September 1, 1984, At an annual salary of $39,000.Mr. William R. Wilkerson, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective July 1, 1984, At an annual salary of $31,700.Mr. George G. Write, Research Assistant Professor of Medicine, effective October 1, 1984, At an annual salary of $23,000.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced; Miss Varnell Armstrong Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, effective December 31, 1984, to pursue full time doctoral study.Ms. Sharon G. Berk, Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 30, 1984, to accept another position.Mrs. Lisette S. Blumhardt, Clinical Instructor in Nursing, effective October 31, 1984, for personal reasons.Mrs. Deborah Conway, Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, effective May 31, 1985, to pursue full time doctoral studies.Ms. Mary A. Dinger, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective September 30, 1984, for personal reasons.Ms. Virginia C. Dudenas, Clinical Instructor in Nursing, effective October 31, 1984, for personal reasons.Dr. Jackson E. Fowler, Jr., Associate Professor of Urology, effective December 31, 1984, to accept another position.Ms. Jane Z. Gorsky, Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, effective December 1, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. Roy E. Graham, Associate Professor of Architectural History, effective January 15, 1985, to accept another position.Ms. Maureen R. Hanson, Assistant Professor of Biology, effective August 31, 1985, to accept another position.Ms. Caroline T. Holloway, Research Assistant Professor of Biochemis.tDr. Roy Jedeikin, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective October 31, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Joseph T. Malloy, Instructor in German, effective September 1, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. James A. McCormick Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective October 1, 1984, to accept a classified position.Mr. Thomas J. Oliver, Scholar in Residence, Department of Anthropology, effective September 1, 1984, to accept another position.Dr. Visespong Punyanitya, Assistant Professor of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, Veterans Administration Medical Center, Salem Program, effective October 31, 1984, for personal reasons.Ms. Susan V. Sentz, Instructor in Nursing, effective May 31, 1985, to pursue doctoral study on full-time basis.Mr. William T. Stewart, Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective May 31, 1985, for personal reasons.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: as Chairman, Department of Art, for three years, effective September 1, 1985.as Assistant Director, Career Planning and Placement, for one year, effective September 10, 1984.as Acting Dean of Admissions, for the period November 21, 1984 through June 30, 1985.Mr. S. Kent Dohrman as Assistant Vice President for Auxiliary Services, for three years, effective October 30, 1984.Mr. Charles T. Gillet as Assistant Vice President for Finance, for three years, effective October 1, 1984.Mr. Joseph F. Kett as Chairman, Department of History, for three years, effective September 1, 1985.Ms. Maruta L. Ray as Assistant to the Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective August 1, 1984.Mr. John Roberts as Chairman, Division of Oriental Languages, for three years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. A. John Simmons as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective September 1, 1985.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mrs. Marjorie H. Andrews as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Robert D. Cross as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Saul X. Leymore as Assistant to the Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Donald G. Loach as Chairman, Department of Music, for three years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Paul B. Stephan as Assistant to the Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. John W. Stewart as Assistant Dean for Eductional Programs, College of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Carl O. Trindle as Assistant Dean for Educational Programs, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Charles A. Vandersee as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective September 1, 1985.

DEATH OF MISS JEAN L. RAYBURN
-----------------------------

Miss Jean L. Rayburn, Associate Professor, General Faculty, died November 21, 1984. She had been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1975.

APPOINTMENT OF A SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE RETIREMENT OF THE PRESIDENT
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced the appointment of the following committee on the Retirement of the President, and charged the Committee with reporting at the March 29, 1985 meeting of the Board: Mr. E. Massie Valentine, ChairmanMrs. George M. CochranMr. John S. Battle, Jr.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN INTERNAL MEDICINE IN THE AREA OF GASTROENTEROLOGY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the Distinguished Professorship in Internal Medicine-in the area of Gastroenterology. This Chair is to become effective on such date as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to Mrs. W. Alton Jones, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE W. TAYLOE MURPHY PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration a Chair to be known as the W. Tayloe Murphy Professorship in Business Administration, to be held by the Director of the Tayloe Murphy Institute. This Chair is to become effective at such time as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to Mrs. W. Tayloe Murphy, Mrs. Zachariah Courtney Dameron, Jr., Mr. W. Tayloe Murphy, Jr., and an anonymous donor, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE GEORGE M. KAUFMAN PRESIDENTIAL PROFESSORSHIP
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established at the University of Virginia a Chair to be known as the George M. Kaufman Presidential Professorship to be held by the President of the University. This Chair is to become effective at such time as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to Mr. George M. Kaufman, Miss Claire Kaufman and Mr. Edward G. Kaufman, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

MODIFICATION OF THE RESOLUTION ESTABLISHING THE ARNOLD H. LEON PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Law a Chair to be known as the Arnold H. Leon Professorship in Law to be held by each succeeding Dean of the School of Law. This Chair is to become effective at such time as its funding is complete. The Hoard is grateful to Mr. Arnold H. Leon, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

APPROVAL OF OMB CIRCULAR A-110 AUDIT REPORT
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the OMB Circular A-110 Audit Report for the year ended June 30, 1984, for the University of Virginia be and it is hereby accepted as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE 1985 INTERNAL AUDIT SCHEDULE
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1985 Internal Audit Schedule as presented by the Director of Audits be and it is hereby approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE UNIVERSITY AND HOSPITAL FINANCIAL REPORTS
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the University of Virginia 1983-1984 consolidated Financial Report and the University of Virginia Hospitals Financial Report be and they are hereby approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period September 16, 1984, through January 10, 1985, as presented by the Director of Audits, be and it is hereby approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported that there are 33 construction projects being undertaken for the University Division, 24 for the Medical Center and 2 for Clinch Valley College.

REPORT ON LEGISLATIVE MATTERS
-----------------------------

The President reported briefly on legislative matters. He expressed optimism that recently cut State budget items will be restored.

CHANGE IN THE OCTOBER 1985 MEETING DATES
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the previously approved October 1985 meeting dates be and they are hereby changed from October 3 and 4, to October 10 and 11, 1985. The President explained that the Fall Convocation date is now set for Friday, October 4, 1985.

RESOLUTION OF THANKS AND DISCHARGE OF THE CAMPAIGN STEERING COMMITTEE
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that grateful appreciation is hereby expressed to the Campaign Steering Committee which produced over $140 million in private gifts for the support of priority financial needs of the University. As it discharges the committee, the Board acknowledges and expresses deepest gratitude not only for the financial support received through the Campaign but also for the increased national visibility and greater alumni and friends involvement as a direct result of the Campaign.

NAMING OF THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE JOSEPH C. SMIDDY HALL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Administration Building at Clinch Valley College be and it is hereby named Joseph C. Smiddy Hall.

APPROVAL OF CAPITAL OUTLAY PROGRAM, 1986-1988
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the proposed 1986-1988 Capital Outlay Program as submitted be and it is hereby approved. (See Attachment I)

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad Debts

$ 3,815,949.86

Free service

6,996,446.64

Total

$10,812,396.50

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts listed on Blue Ridge Hospital Division schedule numbers 585 through 603, meetings for the months of August 23, 1984 —; September 25, 1984, October 29, 1984 and ,November 27, 1984, totaling $440,648.35 and University of Virginia schedule numbers 527 through 538, meetings for the months of August 23, 1984, September 25, 1984, October 29, 1984 and ,November 27, 1984, totaling $10,371,748.15, consisting of the following: Bad Debts$ 3,815,949.86Free service6,996,446.64Total$10,812,396.50 RESOLVED FURTHER, that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of debts represented by such account.

INCREASE IN SUMMER SESSION TUITION AND FEES FOR 1985Other Rental Plans
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Actual1984

Amount ofIncrease

PercentIncrease

Proposed1985

FULL TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEE

Diploma

$ 1.00

$-0-

—;

$ 1.00

Intramurals

4.50

.50

11.1%

5.00

Newcomb Hall

7.00

2.00

28.6%

9.00

Drama

1.0

.50

50.0%

1.50

Student Health

29.00

2.0

6.9%

31.00

Transportation

9.50

\-0-

—;

9.50

TOTAL

$52.00

$5.00

9.6%

$57.00

PART TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEE

Diploma

$ 1.00

$-0-

—;

$ 1.00

Intramurals

2.25

.50

22.2%

2.75

Newcomb Hall

3.00

1.00

33.3%

4.00

Drama

.50

.50

100.0%

1.00

Student Health

29.00

2.00

6.9%

31.00

Transportation

4.25

\-0-

—;

4.25

TOTAL

$40.00

$ 4.00

10.0%

$44.00

TUITION

Virginian (per semester hour)

$ 50.00

$ 5.00

10.0%

$ 55.00

Non-Virginian (per semester hour)

108.00

22.00

20.4%

130.00

Thesis/Dissertation Research

134.00

16.00

11.9%

150.00

Appellate Judges Program

450.00

45.00

10.0%

495.00

Non-Resident Fee

30.00

5.00

16.7%

35.00

Late Payment Fee

10.00

15.00

150.0%

25.00

NON-RESIDENT FEE

Proposed fee is equal to the Board approved fee for the Regular Session

$ 30.00

$-0-

—;

$ 30.00

Actual 1984

Amount ofIncrease

PercentIncrease

Proposed 1985

Lab Fee and Field Trip

$ 35.00

$ 5.00

14.3%

$ 40.00

Pre-Doctoral Research Fee Per Term:

Virginian

130.00

15.00

11.5%

145.00

Non-Virginian

260.00

30.00

11.5%

290.00

Post doctoral Laboratory:

Fee per week

52.00

6.00

11.5%

58.00

MT. LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Each Person 17 years of age & older

$245.00

$ 5.00

2.0%

$250.00

Each Person 10-16 years of age

165.00

5.00

3.0%

170.00

Each Person 9 years of age & younger

100.00

5.00

5.0%

105.00

MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Dormitories $ 57.00

$ 3.00

5.3%

$ 60.00

Cottages

Being Singles

57.00

3.00

5.3%

60.00

Laing Center

83.00

5.00

6.0%

88.00

North

71.00

4.00

5.6%

75.00

South

71.00

4.00

5.6%

75.00

Northwest

71.00

4.00

5.6%

75.00

West

83.00

5.00

6.0%

88.00

Hentz-Mohr

107.00

6.00

5.6%

113.00

With Kitchen

130.00

7.00

5.4%

137.00

Clayton

107.00

6.00

5.6%

113.00

Catesby

90.00

5.00

5.6%

95.00

Gattinger

90.00

5.00

.6%

95.00

Michaux

107.00

6.00

5.6%

113.00

With Kitchen

130.00

7.00

5.4%

137.00

Washington

95.00

5.00

5.3%

100.00

Banister

95.00

5.00

5.3%

100.00

LeConte

95.00

5.00

5.3%

100.00

Hariot

95.00

5.00

5.38

100.00

Schoew

95.00

5.00

5.3%

100.00

Mapnis

95.00

5.00

5.3%

100.00

Holbrook

95.00

5.00

5.3%

100.00

Mitchell

95.00

5.00

5.3%

100.00

Burns

95.00

5.00

5.3%

100.00

Rafinesque

83.00

5.00

6.0%

88.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summer Session fees for the University Division be and they are hereby increased as follows, effective beginning with the Summer Session of 1985: Actual1984Amount ofIncreasePercentIncreaseProposed1985FULL TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEEDiploma$ 1.00$-0-—;$ 1.00Intramurals4.50.5011.1%5.00Newcomb Hall 7.002.0028.6%9.00Drama1.0.5050.0%1.50Student Health29.002.06.9%31.00Transportation9.50-0-—;9.50TOTAL$52.00$5.009.6%$57.00 PART TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEEDiploma$ 1.00$-0-—;$ 1.00Intramurals2.25.5022.2%2.75Newcomb Hall3.001.0033.3%4.00Drama.50.50100.0%1.00Student Health29.002.006.9%31.00Transportation4.25-0-—;4.25TOTAL$40.00$ 4.0010.0%$44.00 TUITIONVirginian (per semester hour)$ 50.00$ 5.0010.0%$ 55.00Non-Virginian (per semester hour)108.0022.0020.4%130.00Thesis/Dissertation Research134.0016.0011.9%150.00Appellate Judges Program450.0045.0010.0%495.00Non-Resident Fee30.00 5.0016.7%35.00Late Payment Fee10.0015.00150.0%25.00 NON-RESIDENT FEEProposed fee is equal to the Board approved fee for the Regular Session$ 30.00$-0-—;$ 30.00 The Summer Session registration fee and tuition rates also apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station. In addition the following special fees apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station. Actual 1984Amount ofIncreasePercentIncreaseProposed 1985Lab Fee and Field Trip$ 35.00$ 5.0014.3%$ 40.00 Pre-Doctoral Research Fee Per Term:Virginian130.0015.0011.5%145.00Non-Virginian260.0030.0011.5%290.00 Post doctoral Laboratory:Fee per week52.006.0011.5%58.00 MT. LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)Each Person 17 years of age & older$245.00$ 5.002.0%$250.00Each Person 10-16 years of age165.005.003.0%170.00Each Person 9 years of age & younger100.005.005.0%105.00 MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)Dormitories $ 57.00$ 3.005.3%$ 60.00 CottagesBeing Singles57.003.005.3%60.00Laing Center83.005.006.0%88.00North71.004.005.6%75.00South71.004.005.6%75.00Northwest71.004.005.6%75.00West83.005.006.0%88.00Hentz-Mohr107.006.005.6%113.00With Kitchen130.007.005.4%137.00Clayton107.006.005.6%113.00Catesby90.005.005.6%95.00Gattinger90.005.00 .6%95.00Michaux107.006.005.6%113.00With Kitchen130.007.005.4%137.00Washington95.005.005.3%100.00Banister95.005.005.3%100.00LeConte95.005.005.3%100.00Hariot95.005.005.38100.00Schoew95.005.005.3%100.00Mapnis95.005.005.3%100.00Holbrook95.005.005.3%100.00Mitchell95.005.005.3%100.00Burns95.005.005.3%100.00Rafinesque83.005.006.0%88.00 Other Rental PlansRafinesque - September - May: $13/night for 1 or 2 persons or $80/week; $3/night for each additional person.September - November and March - May: $250/monthDecember - February: $280 month

RENTAL RATES FOR HOUSING FACILITIES FOR THE SUMMER 1995SUMMER CONFERENCE RATESGRADUATE SUITESGUEST FACILITIESINCREASE IN STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 1985-1986
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FACILITY

ActualSummer 1984

Amt ofIncr

PercentIncr

Proposed FateSummer 1985

SUMMER SESSION RATES

(Including PHD Institute)

Alderman-Observatory

Per student, per week, double occup

$ 29.00

$ 0

0%

$ 29.00

Per student, per week, single occup

$ 36.00

$ 0

0%

$ 36.00

Nurses Apartment Complex

Per student, per week, double occup

$ 36.00

$ 0

0%

$ 36.00

Per student, per week, single occup

$ 45.00

$ 0

0%

$ 45.00

Munford/Gwathmey

Per student, per week, double occup

$ 29.00

$ 0

0%

$29.00

Per student, per week, single occup

$ 36.00

$ 0

0%

$ 36.00

SpriggLane

Per student, per week, double occup

$ 32.00

$ 0

0%

$ 32.00

Per student, per week, single occup

$ 40.00

$ 0

0%

$ 40.00

Lambeth Field

Per person, per night, double occup

$ 13.50

$ 0

0%

$ 13.50

Per person, per night, single occup

$ 19.00

$ 0

0%

$ 19.00

Monroe Hill Houses

Per person, per night, double occup

$ 12.00

$ 0

0%

$ 12.00

Per person, per night, single occup

$ 17.00

$ 0

0%

$ 17.00

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Per person, per night, double occup

$ 9.50

$ 0

0%

$ 9.50

Per person, per night, single occup

$ 13.00

$ 0

0%

$ 13.00

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per night, double occup

$ 8.50

$ 0

0%

$ 8.50

Per person, per night, single occup

$ 12.00

$ 0

0%

$ 12.00

Copeley Hill, Phase III & IV

Per person, per night, double occup

$ 14.50

$ 0

0%

$ 14.50

Per person, per night, single occup

$ 21.00

$ 0

0%

$ 21.00

Faulkner

Per person, per might, double occup

$ 14,50

$ 0

0%

$ 14.50

Per person, per night, single occup

$ 21.00

$ 0

0%

$ 21.00

FACILITY

ActualSummer 1984

Amt ofIncr

PercentIncr

Proposed RateSummer 1985

Lambeth Field

Per person, per night, double occup

$ 11.00

$ 0

0%

$ 11.00

Per person, per night; single occup

$ 16.00

$ 0

0%

$ 16.00

Family rates, per week 2 bdrm apt

$165.00

$ 0

0%

$165.00

Family rates, per week 3 bdrm apt

$220.00

$ 0

0%

$220.00

Moaroe Hill Houses

Per person, per night, double occup

$ 10.00

$ 0 0%

$ 10.00

Per person, per night, single occup

$ 14.00

$ 0

0%

$ 14.00

Alderman Observatory Houses

Per person, per night, double occup

$ 8.50

$ 0

0%

$ 8.50

Per person, per night, single occup $ 10.00

$ 0

0%

$ 10.00

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per night, double occup $ 7.50

$ 0

0%

$ 7.50

Per person, per night, single occup $ 8.00

$ 0

0%

$ 8.00

Lambeth Field

Per person, per night, double occup

$ 9.00

$ 0

0%

$ 9.00

Monroe Hill Houses

Per person, per night, double occup

$ 9.00

$ 0

0% $ 9.00

Alderman /Observatory Houses

Per person, per night, double occup

$ 7.50

$ 0

0%

$ 7.50

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per night, double occup

$ 6.50

$ 0

0%

$ 6.50

Graduate Advisor Suites in Alderman and McCormick Road Houses

Per suite, per

$ 70.00

$ 0

0%

$ 70.00

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per first night

$ 10.58

$ 0

0%

$ 10.58

Per person, for night thereafter

$ 8.65

$ 0

0%

$ 8.65

Facility

Actual1984-85Per StudentPer Session

Amt ofIncr

PercentIncr

Proposed1984-85Per StudentPer Session

Dormitories

Alderman / Observatory Houses

Double Room

$1100

$ 35

3.2%

$1135

Monroe Hill

Double Room

$1200

$

2.9%

$1235

Triple Room

$ 970

$ 40

4.1%

$1010

Monroe Hill

Double Room

$1035

$ 35

3.4%

$1070

Small Double Room

$ 900

$ 40

4.4%

$ 940

Lawn

Small Single

$1190

$ 40

3.4%

$1230

Regular Single

$1250

$ 40 3.2%

$1290

Small Single (no fireplace)

$1150

$ 40

3.5%

$1190

Range

Regular Single

$1210

$ 40 3.3%

$1250

Crackerbox

Double Room

$1145

$ 40

3.5%

$1185

Mary Munford / Roberta Gwalthmey

Double Room

$1100

$ 35

3.2%

$1135

Single Room

$1210

$ 40

3.3%

$1250

Sprigg

Double Room

$1250

$

2.8%

$1285

Single Room

$1360

$

2.9%

$1400

Single Room (Private Bath)

$1410

$ 40 2.8%

$1450

Faulkner

Double Room

$1350

$ 35

2.6%

$1385

Single Room

$1410

$ 40

2.8%

$1450

Stadium Road

Double Room

$1250

$ 40

3.2%

$1290

Single Room

$1360

$ 40

2.9%

$1400

Facility

Actual1984-1985Per StudentPer Session

Amt ofIncr

PercentIncr

Proposed1984-1985Per StudentPer Session

APARTMENTS- SINGLE STUDENT

Copeley Hill Phase III & IV, Nurses, Lambeth Field

Two Bedroom

$1300

$ 40

3.1%

$1340

Three

$1240

$ 40

3.2%

$1280

APARTMENTS -FAMILY

Actual1984-1985Per StudentPer Session

Amt ofIncr

PercentIncr

Proposed1984-1985Per StudentPer Session

Copeley Hill Phases I & II

One Bedroom

$ 273/Mo.

$ 5

1.8%

$ 278

Two Bedroom

$ 300/Mo.

$ 5

1.7%

$ 305

Three Bedroom

$ 328/Mo.

$ 5

1.5%

$ 333

University Gardens

One Bedroom

$ 263/Mo.

$ 5

1.95%

$ 268

Two Bedroom

$ 290/Mo.

$ 5

1.7I%

$ 295

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following rental rates far housing facilities for the Summer 1985, be and they are hereby approved: FACILITYActualSummer 1984Amt ofIncrPercentIncrProposed FateSummer 1985SUMMER SESSION RATES(Including PHD Institute)Alderman-ObservatoryPer student, per week, double occup$ 29.00$ 00%$ 29.00Per student, per week, single occup$ 36.00$ 00%$ 36.00Nurses Apartment ComplexPer student, per week, double occup$ 36.00$ 00% $ 36.00Per student, per week, single occup$ 45.00$ 00%$ 45.00Munford/GwathmeyPer student, per week, double occup$ 29.00$ 00% $29.00Per student, per week, single occup$ 36.00$ 00%$ 36.00SpriggLanePer student, per week, double occup$ 32.00$ 00%$ 32.00Per student, per week, single occup$ 40.00$ 00%$ 40.00

(A) FULL SERVICE - All linens provided; full, daily maid service. Lambeth FieldPer person, per night, double occup$ 13.50$ 0 0% $ 13.50Per person, per night, single occup$ 19.00$ 00%$ 19.00Monroe Hill HousesPer person, per night, double occup$ 12.00$ 0 0% $ 12.00Per person, per night, single occup$ 17.00$ 00% $ 17.00Alderman/Observatory HousesPer person, per night, double occup$ 9.50$ 00%$ 9.50Per person, per night, single occup$ 13.00$ 00% $ 13.00McCormick Road HousesPer person, per night, double occup$ 8.50$ 00%$ 8.50Per person, per night, single occup $ 12.00$ 0 0% $ 12.00Copeley Hill, Phase III & IVPer person, per night, double occup$ 14.50$ 00% $ 14.50Per person, per night, single occup$ 21.00$ 00%$ 21.00FaulknerPer person, per might, double occup$ 14,50$ 00%$ 14.50Per person, per night, single occup$ 21.00$ 00%$ 21.00 (B) PARTIAL SERVICE - Most linens provided; common areas serviced moderately. FACILITYActualSummer 1984Amt ofIncrPercentIncrProposed RateSummer 1985Lambeth FieldPer person, per night, double occup$ 11.00$ 0 0%$ 11.00Per person, per night; single occup$ 16.00$ 00%$ 16.00Family rates, per week 2 bdrm apt$165.00$ 00%$165.00Family rates, per week 3 bdrm apt$220.00$ 00%$220.00Moaroe Hill HousesPer person, per night, double occup$ 10.00$ 0 0%$ 10.00Per person, per night, single occup$ 14.00$ 00%$ 14.00Alderman Observatory HousesPer person, per night, double occup$ 8.50$ 00%$ 8.50Per person, per night, single occup $ 10.00$ 00%$ 10.00McCormick Road HousesPer person, per night, double occup $ 7.50$ 00%$ 7.50Per person, per night, single occup $ 8.00$ 0 0% $ 8.00

(C) NO LINEN SERVICE Lambeth Field Per person, per night, double occup $ 9.00 $ 0 0% $ 9.00 Monroe Hill Houses Per person, per night, double occup $ 9.00 $ 0 0% $ 9.00 Alderman /Observatory Houses Per person, per night, double occup $ 7.50 $ 0 0% $ 7.50 McCormick Road Houses Per person, per night, double occup $ 6.50 $ 0 0% $ 6.50 OTHER CONTRACTED per person group rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures.

Graduate Advisor Suites in Alderman and McCormick Road Houses Per suite, per $ 70.00 $ 0 0% $ 70.00

McCormick Road Houses Per person, per first night $ 10.58 $ 0 0% $ 10.58 Per person, for night thereafter $ 8.65 $ 0 0% $ 8.65

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that rental increases for student housing facilities be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective beginning with the Session 1985-1986: FacilityActual1984-85Per StudentPer SessionAmt ofIncrPercentIncrProposed1984-85Per StudentPer SessionDormitoriesAlderman / Observatory HousesDouble Room$1100$ 353.2%$1135Monroe HillDouble Room$1200$ 2.9%$1235Triple Room$ 970$ 404.1%$1010Monroe HillDouble Room$1035$ 353.4%$1070Small Double Room$ 900$ 404.4%$ 940LawnSmall Single$1190$ 403.4%$1230Regular Single$1250$ 40 3.2%$1290Small Single (no fireplace)$1150$ 403.5%$1190RangeRegular Single$1210$ 40 3.3%$1250 CrackerboxDouble Room$1145$ 403.5%$1185 Mary Munford / Roberta GwalthmeyDouble Room$1100$ 353.2%$1135Single Room$1210$ 40 3.3%$1250Sprigg Double Room$1250$ 2.8%$1285Single Room$1360$ 2.9%$1400Single Room (Private Bath)$1410$ 40 2.8%$1450FaulknerDouble Room$1350$ 352.6%$1385Single Room$1410$ 402.8%$1450Stadium RoadDouble Room$1250$ 403.2%$1290Single Room$1360$ 402.9%$1400 FacilityActual1984-1985Per StudentPer SessionAmt ofIncrPercentIncrProposed1984-1985Per StudentPer SessionAPARTMENTS- SINGLE STUDENTCopeley Hill Phase III & IV, Nurses, Lambeth FieldTwo Bedroom$1300$ 403.1%$1340Three $1240$ 403.2%$1280 APARTMENTS -FAMILYActual1984-1985Per StudentPer SessionAmt ofIncrPercentIncrProposed1984-1985Per StudentPer SessionCopeley Hill Phases I & IIOne Bedroom$ 273/Mo.$ 51.8%$ 278Two Bedroom$ 300/Mo.$ 51.7%$ 305Three Bedroom$ 328/Mo.$ 51.5%$ 333University GardensOne Bedroom$ 263/Mo.$ 51.95%$ 268Two Bedroom$ 290/Mo.$ 51.7I%$ 295

These rates include all utility costs, TV cable in apartments and post office box rental where applicable.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE APPROVAL OF AN IBM CONTRACT FOR THE HOSPITAL INFORMATION SYSTEM
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee regarding the approval of an IBM contract for the Hospital Information System.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE HOSPITAL BOND ISSUE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee regarding the approval of the Hospital Bond Issue.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING lb/> REAL ESTATE RES0LUTIONS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee regarding the following real estate matters: (a) Conveyance of Barringer Property From the Medical Alumni Association to Barringer Renovation Associates(b) Lease to Delta Kappa Epsilon Renovation Associates(c) Purchase of Captain Video Property

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE ELECTION OF W. EDMUND MOOMAW A5 CHANCELLOR OF CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee regarding the election of Mr. W. Edmund Moomaw as Chancellor of Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia, effective July 1. 1985.

STATEMENT OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS REGARDING THE HONOR SYSTEM
-------------------------------------------------------------

The following statement read by Mr. Joshua P. Darden, Jr., was approved as a Statement of the Board of Visitors: On November 3, 1983, President Hereford issued a statement to the University community expressing his deep concern about the functioning and welfare of the Honor System. He recommended the establishment of an ad hoc Committee of the Board of Visitors on the Status of the Honor System, which the Rector subsequently appointed. During the past year the committee held public meetings and gained the perspectives and points of view of a number of students, faculty, and administrators. The committee was also informed of the growing instances of students admitting to an honor offense but being found not guilty because their act was not judged reprehensible. Minutes of the committee meetings were distributed to the Board. The Board met this morning with the current leadership of the Honor Committee.The reprehensibility standard for a finding of guilt had been approved in a University-wide student referendum a number of years previously and had clearly led to inconsistent interpretations and judgments. The committee was pleased when this past fall the student body voted to remove as a defense to an honor violation the plea that the act was not reprehensible. Discussions centered on the operation of the System since the elimination of reprehensibility as a criterion for conviction and on the sharp increase in honor convictions and voluntary withdrawals by those accused of honor offenses during the current session.The Board of Visitors, sensing a revitalized effort on the part of the Student body to make the Honor system work effectively, reaffirms its commitment to the student-run System so dear to the University's students and alumni. The Board will continue to delegate its authority over honor offenses to the students with the expectation that their renewed commitment to an effective Honor System continues and asks the University administration and faculty to lend their support and cooperation toward this student effort.

AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROVAL OF CONTRACT FOR PROJECT MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (REPLACEMENT HOSPITAL)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the appropriate officers of the University be and they hereby are authorized to execute a second phase of a contract for Project Management Consulting Services by Bechtel International for the Replacement Hospital and Related Facilities projects providing for additional consulting services up to an amount not to exceed 51,750,000.

MODIFICATION OF PROCEDURE FOR ASSIGNMENT OF PAVILIONS
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Hoard of Visitors, in its assignment as residences of Pavilions on the Lawn and Montebello shall be governed by the following policy, effective January 25, 1985, which shall supersede all previous policies:A. Qualifications for the assignment of residences under these regulations shall include:1. Assignees shall hold the rank of full professor.2. The following are not eligible for assignment to residences:a. Professors without spousesb. Part-time professorsc. Professors having less than eight years tenure before retirement.B. Subject to A, eligible officers and deans shall be given priority for assignment in an order based on the seniority of their respective schools or office, viz:1. The Vice President and Provost2. The Vice President for Health Affairs3. The Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences4. The Dean of the School of Medicine 5. The Dean of the School of Law6. The Dean of the School of Engineering and Applied Science7. The Dean of the Graduate School8. The Dean of the School of Education 9. The Dean of the School of Commerce 10. The Dean of the School of Architecture 11. The Dean of the Graduate School of Business Administration12. The Dean of the School of Nursing13. The Dean of the College of Arts and SciencesC. Subject to A and B, full professors shall have priority, irrespective of their School, in accordance with their seniority as full professors.Occupants assigned to residences who resign from the faculty, shall vacate the premises within 30 days from the date of resignation. Retiring professors shall vacate the premises by 30 June of the year of retirement. The family of a professor who dies during the session, may occupy the residence until the close of the session.Excluded from these policies are:1. Apartments in the Mews2. Apartments on Monroe Hill3. Apartments in Pavilion VIIID. This policy is to become effective for Montebello following its special assignment to Marion B. Peavey, for the duration of his tenure as Vice President for Development and University Relations.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF NEUROSCIENCE IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that though there have been extensive neuroscience offerings in the University for many years, a Department of Neuroscience was approved for the Medical School as of January 11, 1985.

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF JOHNSON, CRAVEN\_ AND GIBSON, ARCHITECTS OF CHARLOTTESVILLE IN ASSOCIATION WITH BOHLIN POWELL LARKEN CYWINSKI, ARCHITECTS OF WILKES-BARRE PENNSYLVANIA, FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN FOR THE ADDITION TO THE JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL'S SCHOOL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Johnson, Craven and Gibson, Architects, of Charlottesville, in association with Bohlin Powell Larken Cywinski, Architects, of Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, be approved for the performance of architectural design for the addition to the Judge Advocate General's School.

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF WILEY & WILSON IN ASSOCIATION WITH METCALF AND ASSOCIATES FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN FOR THE STUDENT HEALTH FACILITIES PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Wiley & Wilson of Lynchburg, Virginia, in association with Metcalf and Associates of Washington, D. C., be approved for the performance of architectural design for the Student Health Facilities project.

ALLOCATION OF FUNDS FOR THE RENOVATION OF PAVILION VIII AND FOR THE GILMER HALL ADDITION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that a maximum of $117,000 in undesignated campaign funds be and it is hereby allocated toward the renovation of Pavilion VIII; andRESOLVED FURTHER that an additional $261,000 in undesignated campaign funds be and they are hereby allocated toward the addition to Gilmer Hall. This amount is in addition to the allocation provided by the resolution of this Board on October 5, 1984.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President distributed a report listing the private gifts, and a report of the restricted grants and contracts covering the period since the last meeting of the Hoard. Year to date total for private gifts was $3,110,300, and restricted grants and contracts totaled $21,493,581. The Board accepted these private gifts, grants and contracts.

FINAL REPORT OF THE CAMPAIGN FOR THE UNIVERSITY
-----------------------------------------------

The President reported that the three year Capital Campaign, with a goal of $90 million has netted approximately $145.5 million. Vice President Peavey explained that the final figures are still subject to verification. He expressed appreciation for the intense participation of the Board in this effort. President Hereford said that the Campaign not only raised essential private gift support, but it also increased the nation-wide visibility of the University and it Stimulated greater communication among our alumni and friends. Eight of the gifts received were over $1 million each. 190 of the gifts amounted to $100,000 or more.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSLEAVE OF ABSENCE
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty member be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Stanley H. Botts, Professor of Commerce at Clinch Valley College, or one semester, without pay, effective September 1, 1984, for personal reasons.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 3:00 p.m.

RCB:jb

ATTACHMENT 1 January 18, 1985 PROPOSED CAPITAL BUDGET PROGRAM, 1986-1992 University Division (Agency 207)1986-1988 Program
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Priority

Project Title

Fund Source

Amount

1

Correction of Deferred Maintenance (Maintenance Reserve), Phase I

General Funds

$ 5,500,000

2

Engineering School Modernization

General Funds

7,454,000

3

Utilities Improvements, Phase I

General Funds

950,000

4

Halsey Hall Renovation, Phase II

General Funds

608,000

5

Electric Power Upgrade for McLeod Hall

General Funds

500,000

6

Old Cabell Hall Renovation

General Funds

4,000,000

7

Correction of Fire Code Safety Deficiencies, Phase I

General Funds

450,000

8

Construction of Roads, Walkways, Lighting, & Security Improvements, Phase I

General Funds

325,000

9

Computer-Based Instruction Unit for Nursing School

General Funds

100,000

10

Addition to MR-4 (3 floors)

University Funds

2,000,000

Ind.Cost Recov./Gov.

2,000,000

Ind. Cost Recov./Other

1,500,000

$ 5,500,000

11

Special Collections Library (planning only)

Private Gifts

415,000

Priority Project Title Fund Source Amount 1 Correction of Deferred Maintenance (Maintenance Reserve), Phase I General Funds $ 5,500,000 2 Engineering School Modernization General Funds 7,454,000 3 Utilities Improvements, Phase I General Funds 950,000 4 Halsey Hall Renovation, Phase II General Funds 608,000 5 Electric Power Upgrade for McLeod Hall General Funds 500,000 6 Old Cabell Hall Renovation General Funds 4,000,000 7 Correction of Fire Code Safety Deficiencies, Phase I General Funds 450,000 8 Construction of Roads, Walkways, Lighting, & Security Improvements, Phase I General Funds 325,000 9 Computer-Based Instruction Unit for Nursing School General Funds 100,000 10 Addition to MR-4 (3 floors) University Funds 2,000,000 Ind.Cost Recov./Gov. 2,000,000 Ind. Cost Recov./Other 1,500,000 $ 5,500,000 11 Special Collections Library (planning only) Private Gifts 415,000

PROPOSED CAPITAL BUDGET PROGRAM, 1986-1992 January 18, 1985 University Division (Agency 247) Page 21986-1988 Program (continued)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Priority

Project Title

Fund Source

Amount

12

Chemical Engineering Building, Phase I

Private Gifts

$ 2,250,000

Ind. Cost Recov./Gov.

1,250,000

$ 3,500,004

13

Renovation of Spaces Vacated by Replacement Hospital Construction (planning only)

General Funds

250,000

Ind. Cost Recov./Other

250,000

$ 500,000

14

Renovation of Medical School

lnd. Cost Recov./Other

500,000

15

Renovation of Academic & Support Spaces

University Funds

1,300,000

16

Renovation of Research Spaces

Ind. Cost Recov. /Other

1,000,004

17

Maintenance Shop Addition

University Funds

580,000

TOTAL PROGRAM;

General Funds

$20,137,000

Private Gifts

2,665,000

University

3,880,000

Ind. Cost Recov/Gov.

3,254,800

Ind. Cost Recov/Gov.

3,250,000

TOTAL

$33,182,000

Priority Project Title Fund Source Amount 12 Chemical Engineering Building, Phase I Private Gifts $ 2,250,000 Ind. Cost Recov./Gov. 1,250,000 $ 3,500,004 13 Renovation of Spaces Vacated by Replacement Hospital Construction (planning only) General Funds 250,000 Ind. Cost Recov./Other 250,000 $ 500,000 14 Renovation of Medical School lnd. Cost Recov./Other 500,000 15 Renovation of Academic & Support Spaces University Funds 1,300,000 16 Renovation of Research Spaces Ind. Cost Recov. /Other 1,000,004 17 Maintenance Shop Addition University Funds 580,000 TOTAL PROGRAM; General Funds $20,137,000 Private Gifts 2,665,000 University 3,880,000 Ind. Cost Recov/Gov. 3,254,800 Ind. Cost Recov/Gov. 3,250,000 TOTAL $33,182,000

PROPOSED CAPITAL BUDGET PROGRAM, 1986-1992 January 18, 1985 University Division (Agency 247) Page 3CENTRAL APPROPRIATIONSREAPPROPRIATIONS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Priority

Project Title

Fund Source

Amount

Renovation of Facilities to Conserve Energy, Phase V

General Funds

$1,500,000

Asbestos Removal, Phase IV

General Funds

$ 900,000

Handicapped Access, Phase V

General Funds

$ 312,500

Priority

Project Title

Fund Source

Amount

Bayly Museum Air Conditioning

Private

$ 383,700

Halsey Hall Renovation, Phase 1

Ind. Cost Recov./Gov. $ 747,300

Darden Research Center

Private Gifts

$5,392,300

Student Health Building

Private Gifts

$1,212,000

Auxil. Ent. Funds

$ 300,000

Revenue Bonds

2,000,000

$3,512,000

JAG School Expansion

Revenue Bonds

57,179,900

Priority Project Title Fund Source Amount Renovation of Facilities to Conserve Energy, Phase V General Funds $1,500,000 Asbestos Removal, Phase IV General Funds $ 900,000 Handicapped Access, Phase V General Funds $ 312,500

Priority Project Title Fund Source Amount Bayly Museum Air Conditioning Private $ 383,700 Halsey Hall Renovation, Phase 1 Ind. Cost Recov./Gov. $ 747,300 Darden Research Center Private Gifts $5,392,300 Student Health Building Private Gifts $1,212,000 Auxil. Ent. Funds $ 300,000 Revenue Bonds 2,000,000 $3,512,000 JAG School Expansion Revenue Bonds 57,179,900

PROPOSED CAPITAL BUDGET PROGRAM, 1986-1992 January 18, 1985 Page 4Hospital Division (Agency 209) 1986-1988 ProgramCENTRAL APPROPRIATIONSREAPPROPRIATIONS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Priority

Project Title

Fund Source

Amount

1

Correction of Deferred Maintenance (Maintenance Reserve), Phase III (Includes Blue Ridge Hasp.)

General Funds

$ 890,000

2

Replacement Hospital & Related Facilities

General Fund

8,000,000

3

Central Heating/Chiller Plant, Phase 1, Stage 2

General Funds

8,200,000

4

Hospital Facilities Renovation (Includes Blue Ridge Hospital)

Hospital Revenues

750,000

5>

Blue Ridge Hospital Renovations

Trust & Agency

350,000

TOTAL PROGRAM:

General Funds

$17,090,000

Hospital Revenues

750,000

Trust & Agency

350,000

TOTAL

$18,190,000

Handicapped Access

General Funds

$ 230,000

Children's Rehabilitation Center Conference Wing

Hospital Revenues

$ 1,734,700

Children's Rehabilitation Center Outpatient Addition, Phase 11

Hospital Revenues

$ 2,152,900

Priority Project Title Fund Source Amount 1 Correction of Deferred Maintenance (Maintenance Reserve), Phase III (Includes Blue Ridge Hasp.) General Funds $ 890,000 2 Replacement Hospital & Related Facilities General Fund 8,000,000 3 Central Heating/Chiller Plant, Phase 1, Stage 2 General Funds 8,200,000 4 Hospital Facilities Renovation (Includes Blue Ridge Hospital) Hospital Revenues 750,000 5> Blue Ridge Hospital Renovations Trust & Agency 350,000 TOTAL PROGRAM: General Funds $17,090,000 Hospital Revenues 750,000 Trust & Agency 350,000 TOTAL $18,190,000

Handicapped Access General Funds $ 230,000

Children's Rehabilitation Center Conference Wing Hospital Revenues $ 1,734,700 Children's Rehabilitation Center Outpatient Addition, Phase 11 Hospital Revenues $ 2,152,900

PROPOSED CAPITAL BUDGET PROGRAM, 1986-1992 January 18, 1985 Page 51986-1988 Program
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Priority

Project Title

Fund Source

Amount

1

Deferred Maintenance, Phase III

General Funds

$ 134,000

2

Chemistry Laboratory

General Funds

173,200

3

Housing Access, Road, Parking Lot and Walks

General Funds

434,000

4

Outside Utilities

General Funds

147,500

5

Maintenance and Central Receiving Building

General Funds

345,800

6

Library Building Addition, Preplanning Study

General Funds

23,800

7 Gymnasium BuiIding Renovation, Preplanning Study

General Funds

22,500

TOTAL PROGRAM:

General Funds

1,280,800

TOTAL

$1,280,800

Priority Project Title Fund Source Amount 1 Deferred Maintenance, Phase III General Funds $ 134,000 2 Chemistry Laboratory General Funds 173,200 3 Housing Access, Road, Parking Lot and Walks General Funds 434,000 4 Outside Utilities General Funds 147,500 5 Maintenance and Central Receiving Building General Funds 345,800 6 Library Building Addition, Preplanning Study General Funds 23,800 7 Gymnasium BuiIding Renovation, Preplanning Study General Funds 22,500 TOTAL PROGRAM: General Funds 1,280,800 TOTAL $1,280,800

(CB/BoV - d. 8)