Board of Visitors minutes (1986) October 3, 1986
================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 3, 1986

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA October 3, 1986
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:30 a.m., in Open Session on October 2, 1986, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, Charles L. Brown, William M. Camp, Jr., Angela L. Cleveland, Mrs. George M. Cochran, Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Henry A. Dudley, Edward E. Elson, Carl W. Smith, James L. Trinkle, E. Massie Valentine, and Jesse B. Wilson, III. Absent: John S. Battle, Jr., James S. Cremins, Lemuel E. Lewis, Edgar N. Weaver, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Ernest H. Ern, Raymond M. Haas, William H. Muller, Marion B. Peavey, Edwin E. Floyd, and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 3:00 p.m., in Open Session on October 3, 1986, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Robert M. O'Neil, and Charles L. Brown, William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, James S. Cremins, Henry A. Dudley, Carl W. Smith, James L. Trinkle, E. Massie Valentine, and Jesse B. Wilson, III. Absent: John S. Battle, Jr., Angela L. Cleveland, Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Edward E. Elson, Lemuel E. Lewis, Edgar N. Weaver, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., George G. Grattan, IV, William H. Muller, Ernest H. Ern, Raymond M. Haas, Marion B. Peavey, and Edwin E. Floyd were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of May 30, 1986, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 3:00 p.m., on October 3, 1986.

ELECTIONS
---------

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF DR. ROBERT S. BROWN, JR.
------------------------------------------------------

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE ELECTION OF DR. CHARLES G. DRAKE
--------------------------------------------------------------------

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE ELECTION OF DR. MELISSA J. RIEDY
--------------------------------------------------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

CORRECTION IN THE PROMOTION OF MS. JESSICA R. FELDMAN
-----------------------------------------------------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

RETIREMENTS
-----------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE RESIGNATION OF DR. DENNIS H. SULLIVAN
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

DEATH OF DR. JULIA E. EDMUNDS
-----------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HORACE W. GOLDSMITH RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
----------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DOUGLAS HUNTLY GORDON PROFESSORSHIP IN FRENCH LITERATURE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WILLIAM S. JORDAN, JR., PROFESSORSHIP IN INTERNAL MEDICINE IN EPIDEMIOLOGY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CLASS OF 1962 PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
-------------------------------------------------------

EXTENSION OF THE ACADEMIC IMPROVEMENT MATCHING GIFT PILOT PROGRAM
-----------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported that an extensive report on construction was made at the Buildings and Grounds Committee meeting. He said that for the University Division, 35% of the funds are from state sources, while for the hospital division, 10% of the funds are from state funds. He pointed out with special pleasure that ground was broken on September 30, 1986, for the Elson Student Health Facility which will be completed in January 1988.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad Debts

$3,439,583.78

Indigent Care

9,659,275.69

\----------------

Total

$13,098,859.47

APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL REPORT PERTAINING TO EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATEUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA JOHN LEE PRATT FUNDS AS OF JUNE 30, 1986
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unexpended Balance 06/30/85

1985-86 Expenditures

Board Approved Allocations(1) (1)Allocations represent amounts approved by The Board of Visitors for 1986-87.

Unexpended Balance 06/30/86

Arts and Sciences Biology

Student Support

$ 44,308.96

$ 44,490.92

$ 56,000.00

$ 55,818.04

Faculty Salary Supplement

12,481.26

8,778.77

10,184.00

13,886.49

\*\*Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research and Equipment

120,309.07

35,350.40

31,000.00

115,958.67

$ 177,099.29

$ 88,620.09

$ 97,184.00

$ 185,663.20

Chemistry

Student Support

$ 26,068.66

$ 27,336.94

$ 20,000.00

$ 18,731.72

Faculty Salary Supplement

8,550.12

8,232.54

10,701.00

11,018.58

\*Research and Equipment

129,360.35

92,460.09

98,500.00

135,400.26

$ 163,979.13

$ 128,029.57

$ 129,201.00

$ 165,150.56

Mathematics

Student Support

$ 177,838.43

$ 141,105.90

$ 103,000.00

$ 139,732.53

Faculty Salary Supplement

24,544.91

43,399.99

42,691.00

23,835.92

\*Research and Equipment

7,255.40

1,149.00

\----

6,106.40

$ 209,638.74

$ 185,654.89

$ 145,691.00

$ 169,674.85

Physics

Student Support

$ 35,145.95

$ 25,980.33

$ 7,002.00

$ 16,167.62

Faculty Salary Supplement

29,032.98

\----

\----

29,032.98

\*Research and Equipment

212,274.20

80,019.80

222,498.00

354,752.40

$ 276,453.13

$ 106,000.13

$ 229,500.00

$ 399,953.00

School of Medicine

Student Support

$ (21,573.09)

$ (21,557.33)

$ 85,000.00

$ 84,984.24

\*Research and Equipment

\*\*\*\*06/30/86 Balances were adjusted to reflect reclassification of funds in FY 84-85. 590,082.87

446,367.80

575,250.00

718,965.07

$\*\*568,509.78

$ 424,810.47

$ 660,250.00

$ 803,949.31

$1,395,680.07

$ 933,115.15

$1,261,826.00

$1,724,390.92

Adjustment for Negative Balance in 0-45950

(1,293,377.33)

Net Balance

$ 431,013.59

(See Page 3096 for report)

Unexpended Balance 06/30/85 1985-86 Expenditures Board Approved Allocations(1) (1)Allocations represent amounts approved by The Board of Visitors for 1986-87. Unexpended Balance 06/30/86 Arts and Sciences Biology Student Support $ 44,308.96 $ 44,490.92 $ 56,000.00 $ 55,818.04 Faculty Salary Supplement 12,481.26 8,778.77 10,184.00 13,886.49 \*\*Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research and Equipment 120,309.07 35,350.40 31,000.00 115,958.67 $ 177,099.29 $ 88,620.09 $ 97,184.00 $ 185,663.20 Chemistry Student Support $ 26,068.66 $ 27,336.94 $ 20,000.00 $ 18,731.72 Faculty Salary Supplement 8,550.12 8,232.54 10,701.00 11,018.58 \*Research and Equipment 129,360.35 92,460.09 98,500.00 135,400.26 $ 163,979.13 $ 128,029.57 $ 129,201.00 $ 165,150.56 Mathematics Student Support $ 177,838.43 $ 141,105.90 $ 103,000.00 $ 139,732.53 Faculty Salary Supplement 24,544.91 43,399.99 42,691.00 23,835.92 \*Research and Equipment 7,255.40 1,149.00 ---- 6,106.40 $ 209,638.74 $ 185,654.89 $ 145,691.00 $ 169,674.85 Physics Student Support $ 35,145.95 $ 25,980.33 $ 7,002.00 $ 16,167.62 Faculty Salary Supplement 29,032.98 ---- ---- 29,032.98 \*Research and Equipment 212,274.20 80,019.80 222,498.00 354,752.40 $ 276,453.13 $ 106,000.13 $ 229,500.00 $ 399,953.00 School of Medicine Student Support $ (21,573.09) $ (21,557.33) $ 85,000.00 $ 84,984.24 \*Research and Equipment \*\*\*\*06/30/86 Balances were adjusted to reflect reclassification of funds in FY 84-85. 590,082.87 446,367.80 575,250.00 718,965.07 $\*\*568,509.78 $ 424,810.47 $ 660,250.00 $ 803,949.31 $1,395,680.07 $ 933,115.15 $1,261,826.00 $1,724,390.92 Adjustment for Negative Balance in 0-45950 (1,293,377.33) Net Balance $ 431,013.59

Allocations represent amounts approved by The Board of Visitors for 1986-87.

Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts.

06/30/86 Balances were adjusted to reflect reclassification of funds in FY 84-85.

AAU SALARY SCALE
----------------

The President reported on comparisons between the University of Virginia and peer institutions in the American Association of Universities. He noted that for faculty salaries the University of Virginia's rank has improved, and that for 1985 the ranking was 24th. For total compensation, its ranking rose to 23. University of Virginia faculty salaries that were ranked included funds from state sources only. Salary funds from professorships were excluded. He concluded by expressing hope for further improvement at the next reporting period, noting that the salary increases recently provided are not included in the present figures.

ESTABLISHMENT OF AN OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES
---------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE OF THE VICE PROVOST FOR UNIVERSITY-INDUSTRY RELATIONS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE RE-APPOINTMENT OF MR. EDWIN E. FLOYD as VICE PRESIDENT AND PROVOST AND DR. WILLIAM H. MULLER, JR., as VICE-PRESIDENT FOR HEALTH AFFAIRS AND DIRECTOR OF THE MEDICAL CENTER
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee, acting for the Board, had voted on July 1, 1986, to re-elect Mr. Edwin E. Floyd as Vice President and Provost for the period July 1, 1986 until October 14, 1986, and to re-elect Dr. William H. Muller, Jr., as Vice President for Health Affairs and Director of the Medical Center, for one year, effective September 1, 1986.

The President expressed appreciation to both Vice President Floyd and Vice President Muller. He also advised that a search committee for the position of Vice President for Health Affairs will begin its search in the near future.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE ELECTION OF MR. PAUL R. GROSS as VICE PRESIDENT AND PROVOST
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that on behalf of the Board of Visitors, the Executive Committee voted on June 9, 1986, to elect Mr. Paul R. Gross as Vice President and Provost, for a term of five years, effective October 15, 1986. the President advised that Mr. Gross will arrive at the University on October 20, 1986.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported that gifts to the University continue. He noted that thus far in the fiscal year private gifts to the Rector and Visitors have totaled $13,114,100. Restricted grants and contracts for the same period stand at $58,475,712. Of this amount, $27,552,264 was awarded for research training, and public service projects under the direction of the faculty at the Medical School.

AMENDMENT OF POLICY ON SIGNATORY AUTHORITY FOR CONTRACTS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS RELATING TO ACQUISITION OF SERVICES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AGREEMENT TO HEAR REPORTS FROM THE JEFFERSONIAN RESTORATION ADVISORY BOARD
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

AUTHORIZATION TO EFFECT CAPITAL ADVANCES TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA REAL ESTATE FOUNDATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION AMENDING THE MASTER RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ON NOVEMBER 30, 1984, AS AMENDED BY A RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY SAID EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON MAY 30, 1985, TO PROVIDE FOR A CHANGE IN THE DEFINITION OF DEFEASANCE OBLIGATIONS THEREIN
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION AMENDING THE SERIES RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ON DECEMBER 10, 1985, SO AS TO PERMIT THE RATING BY MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE OF THE BONDS ISSUED PURSUANT TO SAID SERIES RESOLUTION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION REGARDING THE TRANSFER OF PROPERTIES FROM THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA REAL ESTATE FOUNDATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Palumbo Property

132 Emmet Street

Brunton Property

581 Brandon Avenue

AAA Property

104 Emmet Street

Westover Estate

Along 29/250 By-Pass

Faulconer Property

307 to 321 Park Place

Hurt/Dykes Property

Fontaine Avenue

Palumbo Property (132 Emmet St.)

$ 274,000.00

Brunton Property (581 Brandon Ave.)

115,000.00

AAA Property (104 Emmet St.)

200,000.00

Westover and Faulconer Property

6,716,431.45

Hurt/Dykes Property (Fontaine Ave.)

3,349,733.21

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT FOR THE CHANCELLOR'S RESIDENCE AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE PERFORMANCE OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN FOR CONSTRUCTION: CHEMICAL ENGINEERING BUILDING
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE PERFORMANCE OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN FOR THE KIDNEY LITHOSTAR FACILITY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE PRELIMINARY CAPITAL OUTLAY PROGRAM FOR 1988-1990
----------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE HISTORIC GROUNDS LANDSCAPE STUDY
------------------------------------------------

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION TO MR. WALKLEY E. JOHNSON
---------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF PRIME VENDOR CONTRACT FOR PROCUREMENT OF PHARMACEUTICAL SUPPLIES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

ACCEPTANCE OF POLICIES ADOPTED BY THE PRESIDENT ON THE USE OF THE LAWN AND THE USE OF THE ROTUNDA AND THE RESCINDING OF THE MARCH 26, 1976 RESOLUTION SETTING FORTH A POLICY STATEMENT ON THE USE OF THE CENTRAL GROUNDS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board reviewed the reports submitted by the President's ad hoc committees on the Use of the Rotunda and the Use of the Lawn and heard the President's report on his adoption of policies recommended in such committee reports.

(See Attachment 2 and Attachment 3 for Use of Rotunda and Use of Lawn Policies)

RESOLUTION TO DR. EDGAR N. WEAVER
---------------------------------

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

RECOMMENDATION FOR GROUP TO CONSIDER MINORITY ENROLLMENT
--------------------------------------------------------

AUTHORIZATION FOR RESTRUCTURING OF THE PORTFOLIO OF THE CONSOLIDATED ENDOWMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 3:30 p.m.

RCB: jb

Attachment 1 = Authorization to Effect Capital Advances to the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation DEMAND NOTE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

$

Charlottesville, Virginia \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 1986

$ Charlottesville, Virginia \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 1986

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned promises to pay to the order of THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, upon demand made after date, the sum of DOLLARS ($\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_) WITH NO INTEREST THEREON, c/o Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Vice President for Business and Finance, Madison Hall, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, 22903.

This note may be prepaid by the maker hereof in whole or in part at any time and from time to time without penalty.

WITNESS the following signature.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA REAL ESTATE FOUNDATION

ATTACHMENT 2 FINAL REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT'S AD HOC COMMITTEE ON THE USE OF THE ROTUNDA August 28, 1986USE OF THE ROTUNDAESTABLISHMENT OF A ROTUNDA USAGE STANDING COMMITTEEPROCEDURE FOR RESERVING SPACE IN THE ROTUNDAGENERAL PRINCIPLES REGARDING USETHE DOME ROOMUSE OF THE NORTH AND SOUTH PORTICOSSECURITY PROVISIONSCATERINGSPECIAL EQUIPMENT AND FURNISHINGS REQUIREMENTSRESPONSIBILITY OF USERSVISITORS AND SIGHTSEERSSTUDENTS WISHING TO STUDY IN THE ROTUNDALUNCHEONSFREQUENCY OF USE (DOME ROOM)ELEVATORENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

While it is very important to regard the Rotunda as an active, working building rather than a "sterile shrine", the building's special characteristics and historical significance dictate that its usage be carefully considered. There is heavy demand by University groups for the Rotunda facilities. The demand far outstrips the availability of space in the building. Several thousand visitors come to see the Rotunda in a typical month. Admissions officials arrange for prospective students to make their first official contact with the University in the Rotunda. Because of the irreplaceable, and fragile nature of the Rotunda interior, it must be used in ways that will not shorten the useful life of the structure. A set of guidelines and regulations have been in effect since the restoration in 1976. The following updates these, and are recommended as guidelines and regulations for use of the Rotunda to become effective immediately:

It is recommended that a small committee (say 3) be appointed by the President to assist the Rotunda Administrator in making decisions about requests for Rotunda facilities that are other than routine, and also to hear appeals from decisions made by the Rotunda Administrator. The Committee should have student and faculty representation.

Reservations may be made by contacting the Rotunda Administrator. Reservations will be made in accordance with the guidelines set forth in this document, and in accordance with University regulations.

Rotunda facilities may be reserved for dignified occasions, within the guidelines, by University departments, groups primarily controlled by faculty, staff, or the Alumni Association, Student Council recognized student groups, or University contracted independent organizations. Assignment of spaces shall be Content Neutral. Because of the heavy demand, it will be the responsibility of the Rotunda Administrator to make the facilities available to as many requestors as possible, avoiding overuse by any group. The Rotunda will not be used for private parties (e.g. wedding receptions) nor will it be used for events requiring the collection of admission fees at the Rotunda.

The Dome Room is the most fragile of the Rotunda facilities. Of special concern is the heart pine floor, which is fragile and irreplaceable. Special care must be taken in the use of this room. Such affairs as seated dinner, lectures, and musical events would be appropriate uses; however, cocktail parties and dances are not permitted. Refreshments may be served only at seated meals. Smoking is allowed only at seated functions.

Events that do not conflict with inside users may be held on North or South Porticos of the Rotunda provided that they are dignified occasions and are in compliance with Lawn Use regulations. Alcoholic beverages may not be served on the Porticos while the University is in session. Reservations may be made by the Rotunda Administrator.

The Dome Room and other Rotunda facilities may be used after the normal closing hour for the Rotunda (4:45 p.m.) only if official Rotunda personnel are present. Users will be billed for the cost of these employees on an hourly basis. A modest use fee will also be assessed. Except at a seated function, smoking will not be permitted in the Dome Room. Candles, except for those placed on tables, will not be permitted. Because of very limited fire escape routes, there is an absolute limit on the capacity of the Dome Room which was set by the University Safety Officer. For banquet use the maximum capacity is 136 persons. For receptions, lectures and similar functions the maximum capacity is 150 persons.

University Catering Service must provide and serve food and beverages and beverages for Rotunda events.

Furnishing, tables, chairs, and heavy equipment will be moved only by qualified University employees trained to do this without hazard to floors, walls, stairs, and other furnishings. Heavy equipment such as pianos (except for light weight electronic models and harpsichords) are not to be taken to the Dome Room.

Users will be required to agree in advance to pay for damage done to the Rotunda as a consequence of their event. Users will also be responsible to avoid disturbing other users who may be assigned to other rooms in the Rotunda.

During the time the Rotunda is open to the public (usually 9:00 a.m. to 4:45 p.m.) Dome Room events will not normally be closed to the public. The oval rooms, if reserved, may be used for meetings to which the public is not invited. The public is not invited into the Rotunda after the normal closing hours.

Students are encouraged to use the alcoves in the Dome Room for study whenever the room is available during normal open hours, subject to normal regulation by the Rotunda Administrator.

Except for official University-wide functions, the Dome Room will not be used for luncheons. Luncheons may be scheduled in the Lower West Oval Room.

The Dome Room may be used for dinners no more than three times each week, and on annual average no more often than ten times each month.

Handicapped, infirm, or aged persons will be taken on the elevator to the upper floors by Rotunda personnel upon request. Others should use the stairways. In case of fire, the elevator will not be useable.

The columns, curved woodwork, and some of the antique furnishings require rigid humidity control. Even brief deviations from the specified humidity levels cause cracking and in some cases rapid deterioration. The Rotunda is equipped with an elaborate system for maintaining optimum temperature and humidity levels in all seasons. The system requires that all windows be kept tightly closed, and that all doors except the lower level entrance doors be kept closed. The glass doors overlooking the South portico should also be kept closed.

ATTACHMENT 3 FINAL REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT'S AD HOC COMMITTEE ON THE USE OF THE LAWN September 24, 1986
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This report addresses the uses of that part of the University of Virginia Historic District which includes the entire area between McCormick Road and Hospital Drive (on the West and East, respectively) and University Avenue and the Boundary formed by Pavilions IX and X, Rouss Hall, Old Cabell, and Cocke Hall (on the North and South, respectively). Excluded, for example, is the Amphitheatre.

The Lawn is the geographical and spiritual heart of the University. The entire University Community -- students, faculty, administrators -- are its trustees, as well as the beneficiaries of this beauty and usefulness. To us who are here now have been given both all the benefits that we currently enjoy from the Lawn and also the obligation to preserve those benefits for future generations.

The University Community has developed a proud tradition of mutual accommodations of all these diverse uses. The Lawn must perforce be open and accessible under reasonable rules and regulations (many of which are and have long been in place, administered, a.o., by the Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs, the Rotunda Administration, et. al.).

The Lawn is replete with fragile, delicate structures and landscape content. Preservation is a constant concern and a burgeoning curatorial responsibility. That responsibility has been entrusted to the University as part of its fiduciary obligations to future generations. The danger that misuse of the Lawn presents to the historic edifices, and to their dependencies and surroundings, are real, not theoretical. Differing rules and regulations may apply to different parts of the Lawn -- e.g., the lower terrace may be governed by different safety precautions and regulations from those that apply to the upper three terrace. Moreover, space limitations and the plethora of requests for facilities perforce dictate orderly administrative rules, always provided that these rules will be content neutral.