Board of Visitors minutes (1988) May 27, 1988
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 27, 1988

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA May 27, 1988
------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:00 p.m., in Open Session on May 26, 1988, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Joshua P. Darden, Jr., President Robert M. O'Neil, John S. Battle, Jr., Charles L. Brown, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, Edward E. Elson, Jerry V. Glover, Waller H. Horsley, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, James L. Trinkle, Edgar N. Weaver, and Jesse B. Wilson, III. Absent: William M. Camp, Jr., Lemuel E. Lewis, S. Buford Scott and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., George G. Grattan, IV, Ernest H. Ern, Don E. Detmer, Raymond M. Haas and Marion B. Peavey were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 3:30 p.m., in Open Session on May 27, 1988, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Joshua P. Darden, Jr., President Robert M. O'Neil, John S. Battle, Jr., Charles L. Brown, W. L. Lyons, Brown, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, Jerry V. Glover, Waller H. Horsley, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, James L. Trinkle, and Edgar N. Weaver. Absent: Robert G. Butcher, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., Edward E. Elson, Lemuel E. Lewis, S. Buford Scott, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., George G. Grattan, IV, Don E. Detmer, Raymond M. Haas, Marion B. Peavey, and Paul R. Gross were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of March 18, 1988, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 3:30 p.m., on May 27, 1988.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

In compliance with Section 3.1 of the 1985 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the following members were elected to serve on the Executive Committee until the next Annual Meeting in May, 1989: Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Chairman, John S. Battle, Jr., Charles L. Brown, Mrs. George M. Cochran, and James L. Trinkle.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESFINANCE COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF GLYNN D. KEY AS NON-VOTING STUDENT MEMBER
-----------------------------------------------------

On the motion of Mr. Jesse B. Wilson, III, Chairman of the Special Committee on Nominating a Non-Voting Student on the Board of Visitors, the Board elected Miss Glynn D. Key as a nonvoting student member of the Board of Visitors for the period July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1989 as prescribed in Section 2.21 of The Manual.

ELECTIONS
---------

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF MR. RIZWAN UDDIN
----------------------------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

CANCELLATION OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MS. CLAUDINE B. MALONE
---------------------------------------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. RAFAEL TRIANA
--------------------------------------------------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

RETIREMENTS
-----------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. CHARLES O. GREGORY
-------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. CARLO PELLICCIA
----------------------------

DEATH OF MR. JOHN RITCHIE, III
------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. EDWARD H. WINTER
-----------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE J. PRETLOW DARDEN PROFESSORSHIP IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOSEPH HELMS FARROW PROFESSORSHIP IN SURGICAL ONCOLOGY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MEDICAL ALUMNI PROFESSORSHIP IN PEDIATRICS
---------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE RICK A. MOORE PROFESSORSHIP IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ALUMNI COUNCIL THOMAS JEFFERSON PROFESSORSHIP IN THE COLLEGE AND GRADUATE SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

President O'Neil reported that a considerable amount of construction is being done at this time. In the University division there are 72 projects valued at $360 million, and in the hospital division, projects are valued at $270 million. Projects at Clinch Valley College are valued at $1,131,250.

REPORT ON GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
-------------------------------------

President O'Neil reported that private gifts to the Rector and Visitors and gifts received through University related foundations designated for the Rector and Visitors are valued at $5,211,638 for the period February 1 through April 30, 1988, and for the fiscal year to date $14,155,215. He reported an 18% increase in funds for sponsored research to $16,482,612 for the period March 1 through April 30, 1988, and to $60,677,855 for the fiscal year to date (July 1, 1987 through April 30, 1988).

RE-ELECTION OF MR. ERNEST H. ERN AS VICE PRESIDENT FOR STUDENT AFFAIRS
----------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1988-1989 BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY DIVISION
------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1988-1989 BUDGET FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1988-1989 BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL DIVISION
---------------------------------------------------------------------

AUTHORIZATION OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS ACADEMIC ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
-------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF HOSPITAL ROOM RATES
-------------------------------

1987-88

PERCENT OF INCREASE

AMOUNT OF INCREASE

RATE PROPOSED 1988-89

SEMI-PRIVATE

$270.00

10.0%

$27.00

$297.00

INTENSIVE CARE AND

$565.00

$57.00

$622.00

OTHER SPECIAL

to

10.0%

to

to

CARE UNITS

$1,240.00

$124.00

$1,364.00

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad Debts

$ 3,916,869.95

Indigent Care

12,883,011.10

\-------------

$16,799,881.05

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF ELLERBE ASSOCIATES, INCORPORATED, FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF A FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR A SPORTS ARENA
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF THE CEGG PARTNERSHIP FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN FOR THE PHYSIOLOGY LABORATORY RENOVATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION RENAMING THE VICE PRESIDENT FOR HEALTH AFFAIRS THE VICE PRESIDENT FOR HEALTH SCIENCES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF MR. EDGAR F. SHANNON, JR., AS PRESIDENT EMERITUS
------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE REPORT OF THE BAD DEBTS COMMITTEE
-------------------------------------------------

Library Fines and Charges

$13,552.08

Parking and Transportation Fines and Charges

17,454.75

Uncollectible Advances to Former Employees

18,084.77

Tuition and Fees

21,823.50

University Student Loans

4,180.49

Federal Student Loans

6,353.24

Other Charges

14,367.60

REVISED POLICY ON ASSIGNMENT OF PAVILIONS ON THE LAWN AND MONTEBELLO
--------------------------------------------------------------------

This policy is to become effective for Montebello following its special assignment to the Vice President for Development and University Relations who has been assigned Montebello as a residence as long as he holds the title of Vice President.

AUTHORIZATION FOR THE VICE PRESIDENT FOR BUSINESS AND FINANCE TO SEEK STATE APPROVAL OF EARLY RETIREMENT INCENTIVES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AUTHORIZATION FOR THE PRESIDENT TO APPROVE CEMETERY REGULATIONS
---------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION CONCERNING AMENDMENT TO STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
-------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF ROOF RESTORATION PLAN FOR PAVILIONS VI AND VII
----------------------------------------------------------

REPORT ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONS APPROVED AT THE APRIL 13, 1988 MEETING
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Vice President Ray C. Hunt reported that the Executive Committee, acting for the full Board, as authorized by Section 3.1 of The Manual, re-elected seven persons to the faculty, and promoted 70 faculty members at a called meeting held April 13, 1988.

APPROVAL OF THE 1987-88 AND 1988-89 BUDGETS OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATE FOR SPECIFIED DEPARTMENTS IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND ARTS AND SCIENCESSCHOOL OF MEDICINE Budget Proposal For Pratt BequestSCHOOL OF MEDICINE Budget Proposal For Pratt BequestSCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES Budget Proposal For Pratt BequestSCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES Budget Proposal For Pratt Bequest
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Research

1987-88

Total

Lymphocyte Culture Facility (Hewlett)

$25,537

$25,537

Protein and Nucleic Acid Sequencing Ctr. (Fox)

$70,000

$70,000

Mass Spectrometry (Savory)

$57,500

$57,500

Biomedical Image Processing Center (Merickel)

$133,510

$133,510

Brain Bank Facility (Brashear)

$32,500

$32,500

Laboratory for Single Cell Studies (Leong)

$14,000

$14,000

Isolation and Characterization of Two Separate Mediators for Insulin Action (Larner)

$60,000

$60,000

TOTAL

$393,047

$393,047

Research

1988-89

Total

Molecular Probe Core Lab (Savory)

$54,200

$54,200

UVA Core BSL3 Lab (Thomas)

$42,000

$42,000

Support for Graduate Finance Comm. (Peach)

$102,600

$102,600

Support for Central Electron Microscope Facility (Flickinger)

$84,200

$84,200

Protein and Nucleic Acid Research Facility (Fox)

$18,100

$18,100

Funds to Aid Maintenance of Gamma Cell 40 Irradiation Unit (Quesenberry)

$ 4,500

$ 4,500

Continuation Support for the FACS Lab (Owens)

$42,000

$42,000

Support Grant for the Medical Ctr. Computer Graphics Lab (Smith)

$37,400

$37,400

TOTAL

$385,000

$385,000

Biology

Chemistry

Mathematics

Physics

Student Supports: Grad. & Undergrad.

$138,730

$ 22,000

$ 77,000

$ -0-

Faculty Salary Supplement

$ 29,800

$ 1,110

$ 58,000

$ -0-

Equipment

$ 51,000

$133,000

$ 15,000

$ -0-

TOTAL

$219,530

$156,110

$150,000

$ -0-

Biology

Chemistry

Mathematics

Physics

Student Supports: Grad. & Undergrad.

\-0-

\-0-

\-0-

$ -0-

Faculty Salary Supplement

\-0-

\-0-

\-0-

$ -0-

Equipment

\-0-

$90,000

\-0-

$ 90,000

TOTAL

\-0-

$90,000

\-0-

$ 90,000

(Continued on Pages 3449, 3450, 3451 and 3452)

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt Funds in the School of Medicine. In accordance with the Will, funds may be used by the School of Medicine for scholarships for medical students and research. The annual disbursement of the estate is 1.2 million dollars to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and Medicine.

Research 1987-88 Total Lymphocyte Culture Facility (Hewlett) $25,537 $25,537 Protein and Nucleic Acid Sequencing Ctr. (Fox) $70,000 $70,000 Mass Spectrometry (Savory) $57,500 $57,500 Biomedical Image Processing Center (Merickel) $133,510 $133,510 Brain Bank Facility (Brashear) $32,500 $32,500 Laboratory for Single Cell Studies (Leong) $14,000 $14,000 Isolation and Characterization of Two Separate Mediators for Insulin Action (Larner) $60,000 $60,000 TOTAL $393,047 $393,047

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt Funds in the School of Medicine. In accordance with the Will, funds may be used by the School of Medicine for scholarships for medical students and research. The annual disbursement of the estate is 1.2 million dollars to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and Medicine.

Research 1988-89 Total Molecular Probe Core Lab (Savory) $54,200 $54,200 UVA Core BSL3 Lab (Thomas) $42,000 $42,000 Support for Graduate Finance Comm. (Peach) $102,600 $102,600 Support for Central Electron Microscope Facility (Flickinger) $84,200 $84,200 Protein and Nucleic Acid Research Facility (Fox) $18,100 $18,100 Funds to Aid Maintenance of Gamma Cell 40 Irradiation Unit (Quesenberry) $ 4,500 $ 4,500 Continuation Support for the FACS Lab (Owens) $42,000 $42,000 Support Grant for the Medical Ctr. Computer Graphics Lab (Smith) $37,400 $37,400 TOTAL $385,000 $385,000

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt funds of the four departments in Arts and Sciences. The four departments designated in the Will were Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics; and the funds could be used in three categories displayed in the budget, scholarships for outstanding students, supplementation of faculty salaries, and equipment. The annual disbursement of the estate is 1.2 million dollars to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and Medicine.

Biology Chemistry Mathematics Physics Student Supports: Grad. & Undergrad. $138,730 $ 22,000 $ 77,000 $ -0- Faculty Salary Supplement $ 29,800 $ 1,110 $ 58,000 $ -0- Equipment $ 51,000 $133,000 $ 15,000 $ -0- TOTAL $219,530 $156,110 $150,000 $ -0-

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt funds of the four departments in Arts and Sciences. The four departments designated in the Will were Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics; and the funds could be used in three categories displayed in the budget, scholarships for outstanding students, supplementation of faculty salaries, and equipment. The annual disbursement of the estate is 1.2 million dollars to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and Medicine.

Biology Chemistry Mathematics Physics Student Supports: Grad. & Undergrad. -0- -0- -0- $ -0- Faculty Salary Supplement -0- -0- -0- $ -0- Equipment -0- $90,000 -0- $ 90,000 TOTAL -0- $90,000 -0- $ 90,000

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

NAMING OF THE NEW ARTS AND SCIENCES BUILDING BRYAN HALL
-------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE REVISIONS TO THE HOSPITAL CLINICAL STAFF BY-LAWS
----------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION FOR AUTHORIZATION TO PARTICIPATE IN COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA 9-C BOND ISSUE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:

Section 1. The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "Board") (a) covenants to fix, revise, charge and collect rentals, fees and charges, including without limitation those for room and board, for or in connection with the University's student housing system, including the Projects and (b) pledges such fees to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Projects; provided that the current expenses of operating the University-owned student housing facilities, including the Projects (the "Current Expenses") shall be a first charge on such rentals, fees and charges. The Board further covenants that such rentals, fees and charges will be fixed, revised, charged and collected so that the net revenues therefrom, after payment of the Current Expenses, will at all times be sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Projects as and when the same become due, and to pay debt service on any outstanding obligations, if any, that have been previously issued which are secured by the rentals, fees and charges pledged herein, that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Projects to be secured on a parity with such obligations (except the University's $3,000,000 Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1962) and its $4,100,000 Student Apartment and Dormitory Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1965) which are secured by a prior right in the revenues to be derived from those projects). Any such rentals, fees and charges in excess of the amounts required for the payment of the Current Expenses, the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Projects when due, and debt service on any outstanding obligations which are secured by the rentals, fees and charges pledged herein may be used by the University for any other proper purpose.

Section 2. It is hereby found, determined, and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates and advice of appropriate officials of the University as shown on Exhibits A and B hereto, the anticipated net revenues received from the rentals, fees and charges pledged above will be sufficient to pay the Current Expenses, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Projects as the same become due, and debt service on any outstanding obligations which are secured by the rentals, fees and charges pledged herein, so long as (i) the effective true interest cost on the Bonds does not exceed 8.50% per annum, and (ii) the aggregate amount of debt service actually payable in any bond year and all bond years on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Projects does not exceed $105,368, unless the Vice President for Business and Finance provides the Governor and the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth of Virginia with satisfactory evidence that the rentals, fees and charges pledged in Section 1 above will also be sufficient to pay the additional amount of actual debt service which for any bond year(s) exceeds $105,368.

Section 3. The Board covenants that so long as the Bonds are outstanding, the University will pay to the Treasurer of Virginia not less than 30 days before each interest or principal and interest payment date, the amount certified by the Treasurer of Virginia to be due and payable on such date as principal and interest on that portion of the Bonds issued on behalf of the University to finance the Projects.

Section 4. The Board covenants that the University will pay from time to time its proportionate share of all expenses incurred in connection with the sale and issuance of the Bonds and all expenses thereafter incurred in connection with the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds all as certified by the Treasurer of Virginia to the University.

Section 5. The Board covenants that the University within six months of the date of the issuance of the Bonds will spend all of the proceeds derived from the sale of that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Projects for costs associated with the Projects. The Board further covenants that the University, either alone or in conjunction with the Treasurer of Virginia, will, to the extent permitted by Virginia law, take all other actions necessary to maintain the exemption of interest on the Bonds from gross income under Federal and Virginia law and, unless advised in writing by bond counsel for the issuance of the Bonds that such compliance is not necessary in order to maintain such exemption, to comply with the provisions contained in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, relating to tax-exempt obligations, including without limitation (a) refunding any obligations previously issued to finance the Projects within 30 days of the issuance of the Bonds (unless the Treasurer of Virginia permits a longer period of time), and (b) paying any required rebate to the United States, all as may be directed by the Treasurer of Virginia.

Section 6. The Board covenants that for so long as the Bonds are outstanding the University will not enter into any operating lease, management contract or similar agreement with any person or entity other than a governmental unit, for all or any portion of the Projects, without first obtaining the written approval of the Treasurer of Virginia and bond counsel for the issuance of the Bonds.

APPROVAL OF COMPENSATION PLAN
-----------------------------

1988-1989 SALARY FOR PRESIDENT ROBERT M. O'NEIL
-----------------------------------------------

1988-1989 SALARY FOR CHANCELLOR J. A. KNIGHT
--------------------------------------------

State

$72,000

Local Supplement

$11,000

Total

$83,000

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGERE-ELECTIONS
---------------------------------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 4:00 p.m.

RCB:jb

ATTACHMENT A = Resolution Re Cemetery EXCERPT
---------------------------------------------

Minutes of the Meeting of the Board of Visitors, March 9, 1915

9\. That suitable lots be set aside for the graves of such individual students and alumni, as may be buried here.

No further action by the Board has been located in the Minutes, except for increasing the charge per lot to $40 (1955).

ATTACHMENT B = Revisions to Clinical Staff By-laws PROPOSED REVISIONS to THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA HOSPITALS CLINICAL STAFF BYLAWS/RULES AND REGULATIONSExisting:Proposed:5a. ARTICLE III: CLINICAL STAFF MEMBERSHIP (p. 4)Section 1. Nature of Clinical Staff MembershipSection 2. Qualifications for Membership5b. ARTICLE IV: CATEGORIES OF THE CLINICAL STAFF (p. 6)Section 1. The Clinical StaffSection 2. The Active Clinical StaffSection 3. The Visiting Clinical Staff
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

\_\_\_denotes proposed addition

\--denotes proposed deletion

1\. Add provision for the use of special treatment procedures as required of hospitals which provide psychiatric/substance abuse services (Part II: Clinical Staff Rules and Regulations, p.42).

2\. Add requirement of monthly meetings by each clinical department. (Article XII: COMMITTEE AND DEPARTMENT MEETINGS. Section 1, p. 29).

3\. Add provision for five elements of patient care by the Medical Policy Committee. (Article X, Section 1, b. Duties, p. 26).

4\. Revision of rules and regulations (p. 38, No. 13) to accurately reflect the Federal Register, Vol. 49, No. 171, requirements for physician attestation.

5\. Provide clarification regarding the qualifications for membership to the Clinical Staff:

6\. The bill in Appendix VI, p. 73, outlining when a person is deemed medically and legally dead is now an enacted statute. It is proposed that 32-364, 3:1 be replaced with enacted Statute now Virginia Code Section 54-325. 7 (Below)

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia:

1\. That §§ 54-325.7 and 54-325.8 of the Code of Virginia are amended and reenacted as follows:

§54-325.7. When person deemed medically and legally dead.-A person shall be medically and legally dead if

(a)1. In the opinion of a physician duly authorized to practice medicine in this Commonwealth, based on the ordinary standards of medical practice, there is the absence of spontaneous respiratory and spontaneous cardiac functions and, because of the disease or condition which directly or indirectly caused these functions to cease, or because of the passage of time since these functions ceased, attempts at resuscitation would not, in the opinion of such physician. be successful in restoring spontaneous life-sustaining functions. and, in such event, death shall be deemed to have occurred at the time these functions ceased: or(b)

2\. In the opinion of a consulting physician, who shall be duly licensed and a specialist in the field of neurology, neurosurgery, or electroencephalography, when based on the ordinary standards of medical practice, there is the absence of spontaneous brain functions and spontaneous respiratory functions and, in the opinion ofthe attendinganother physician and suchconsulting physicianneurospecialist, based on the ordinary standards of medical practice and considering the absence of spontaneous brain functions and spontaneous respiratory functions and the patient's medical record. further attempts at resuscitation or continued supportive maintenance would not be successful in restoring such spontaneous functions, and, in such event, death shall be deemed to have occurred at the time when these conditions first coincide.

Death, as defined in subsection(b)2 hereof, shall be pronounced by one of the attending physiciantwo physicians and recorded in the patient's medical record and attested by theaforesaid consultingother physician.

Notwithstanding any statutory or common law to the contrary, either of these alternative definitions of death may be utilized for all purposes in the Commonwealth. including the trial of civil and criminal cases.

§54-325.8. Persons who may authorize postmortem examination of decedent's body. Except in cases of death where official inquiry is authorized or required by law,Any of the following personsafter receiving actual notice of death, in order of priority stated. may authorize and consent to a postmortem examination and autopsy on a decedent's body for the purpose of determining the cause of death of the decedent, for the advancement of medical or dental education and research, or for the general advancement of medical or dental science; provided, that.if: (i) no person in a higher class exists or no person in a higher class is available at the time of deathauthorization or consent is given, (ii) there is no actual notice of contrary indications by the decedent, and (iii) there is no actual notice of opposition by a member of the same or a prior class.

The order of priority shall be as follows: (1) the spouse; (2) an adult son or daughter. (3) either parent; (4) an adult brother or sister; (5) a guardian of the person of the decedent at the time of his death; or (6) any other person authorized or under legal obligation to dispose of the body.

If the physician or surgeon has actual notice of contrary indications by the decedent or of opposition to an autopsy by a member of the same or a prior class, the autopsy shall not be performed. The persons authorized herein may authorize or consent to the autopsy after death orimmediatelybefore death.

7\. Revision of the functions of Department Chairmen, Article IX, Section 3, p. 22, to reflect existing practice. DELETE:

d.Appoint a departmental committee to conduct the initial phase of patient care evaluation required by these Bylaws.

8\. Addition of definition for Chairman of the Medical Policy Committee to Article X, Section 1, Medical Policy Committee of the Clinical Staff.

9\. Revision of the definition for the President of the Clinical Staff, Article VIII, Section 6, page 20: Existing:

10\. Addition of definition for Chief of Staff to Article VIII: Officers, page 21.

11\. Nurse Practitioners - Clinical Privileges (p. 78)

12\. Physician Assistants - Clinical Privileges (p. 77)

13\. All references to groups who may apply for clinical privileges shall include nurse practitioners, physician assistants, and other Ph.D. faculty members who render clinical care. These groups are not currently included among those who may apply.

14\. To provide for the Rules and Regulations governing the clinical privileges of Ph.D. members of Clinical Departments:

15\. Revise first sentence of Article XII, Section 1, p. 29, to support the statement in Article X that a complete listing of the MPC's Committees shall appear in the Medical Policy Manual with their meeting frequencies.

ATTACHMENT C = Academic Enhancement Program Resolution UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA BOARD OF VISITORS ACADEMIC ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM, 1989-94PURPOSE:DESCRIPTION:SELECTION:SCHEDULE:CRITERIA:FUNDING:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

UVA Budget and Planning

(5/20/88)

EXHIBIT A REVISED FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AGENCY 246 FOR THE ACQUISITION OF TOWNHOUSES FOR STUDENT HOUSING PROJECT CODE 13843 OCTOBER 15, 1987TABLE OF CONTENTSCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ACQUISITION OF TOWNHOUSES FOR STUDENT HOUSING PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND JUSTIFICATIONCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ACQUISITION OF TOWNHOUSES FOR STUDENT HOUSING PROJECT COSTS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND JUSTIFICATION

PROJECT COSTS

ATTACHMENT A

ESTIMATED NET REVENUE FOR CVC DORMITORY SYSTEM

ATTACHMENT B

DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE FOR 1973 SERIES B ISSUE FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE

ATTACHMENT C

DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE FOR 1984 SERIES B ISSUE FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE

CASH FLOW WORKSHEETS

LOTUS FILES "EXPENDITURE OPTION 1" AND "REVENUE OPTION 1" ON FEASIBILITY DISKETTE

Acquisition of Building and Land

$300,000

Improvements and Furnishings

60,000

Total Amount of Debt

$360,000

Personal Services and Fringe Benefits

$ 7,800

Contractual Services

4,500

Supplies and Equipment

4,000

Utilities

2,880

Indirect Costs

720

Total Operating Expenses

$19,900

36 Beds x $1260 x .98 (regular session)

$44,452

36 Beds x $450 x .70 (summer session)

11,340

$55,792

Revenues Generated from 36 Beds

$55,792

Annual Operating Expenditures for 36 Beds

19,900

Net Available for Debt Service

$35,892

TABLE OF CONTENTS PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND JUSTIFICATION PROJECT COSTS ATTACHMENT A ESTIMATED NET REVENUE FOR CVC DORMITORY SYSTEM ATTACHMENT B DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE FOR 1973 SERIES B ISSUE FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ATTACHMENT C DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE FOR 1984 SERIES B ISSUE FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE CASH FLOW WORKSHEETS LOTUS FILES "EXPENDITURE OPTION 1" AND "REVENUE OPTION 1" ON FEASIBILITY DISKETTE

Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia has recently acquired an apartment building and 2.24 acres of land located across the road from the campus. The ten-unit apartment complex includes 8,708 square feet and will be used to house 36 students. The building was constructed in 1978 and is in good repair. Clinch Valley requested and received approval for this acquisition during the 1987 General Assembly Session.

Clinch Valley College student housing is a self-supporting auxiliary enterprise, acting in direct support of the educational mission of the college. Clinch Valley has three goals in providing student housing. One is to furnish students with a variety of housing arrangements at reasonable cost. Another is to provide an environment in which each student may achieve the maximum realization of his or her potential, intellectually, socially and physically. The third is to have the ability to move the students from temporary housing, which may be either small rooms on campus or substandard housing in the town of Wise. The population of Wise is only 3,800 and any off-campus housing is very limited. Many of the students cannot commute because of the mountainous terrain and the long distances to surrounding communities. Therefore, housing must be provided for the majority of the student body. At present, the College has beds for less than half of the FTE student population. The acquisition of this apartment complex will enable Clinch Valley to better accommodate this critical need for student housing.

Acquisition of Building and Land $300,000 Improvements and Furnishings 60,000 Total Amount of Debt $360,000

Appropriation for this project was included in the Revenue Bond Bill approved during the 1987 General Assembly Session. The Item No. is R-13.1; Project Code is 13843; and Title is Acquisition: Student Housing. The University financed the purchase with a Treasury Anticipation Loan and intends to repay this loan and permanently finance the project with proceeds from revenue bonds. CVC expects to occupy the facility in 1988.

There will be no initial outlays other than those financed with revenue bond proceeds. The $60,000 shown above for improvements and furnishings will be used to sprinkler the facility and purchase dormitory furniture. This expenditure is included in the total amount proposed for the bond issue.

Incremental Annual Operating Expenses for the 36 beds are estimated as follows: Personal Services and Fringe Benefits$ 7,800Contractual Services4,500Supplies and Equipment4,000Utilities2,880Indirect Costs720Total Operating Expenses$19,900

Student dormitory fees cover all operating expenditures and debt service and contribute to the reserve for renovation and repair of the facilities.

Project Costs, cont.

Revenues generated from this dormitory will be as follows:

36 Beds x $1260 x .98 (regular session) $44,452 36 Beds x $450 x .70 (summer session) 11,340 $55,792 Revenues Generated from 36 Beds $55,792 Annual Operating Expenditures for 36 Beds 19,900 Net Available for Debt Service $35,892

The table above, together with the worksheets that follow, indicate the net revenue generated from this new housing facility will not be sufficient to cover the annual principal and interest payment of $43,351, plus 10 percent debt coverage. However, if one considers net revenue generated from the Clinch Valley College dormitory "system", there is sufficient revenue to service all debt without increasing the dorm fees now payed by students at the College.

It should be noted that the data provided in the accompanying cash flow worksheets reflects net revenue generated by the dormitory system under "Other" revenue. That information is also provided in Attachment A. The bond indenture does not require a reserve fund payment; although as a matter of practice, Clinch Valley College budgets a minimum contribution of 5 percent of the revenue generated by dorm rents for major maintenance, renovation and repair of the facilities. This percentage is identified as "Reserve Contribution" in Attachment A.

Project Costs, cont.

Attachments B and C reflect individual debt payment schedules for existing facilities within the system. The first outstanding bond issue represented in the attachments is the 1973 Series B issue for $500,000 for the CVC Women's Dorm. At the present time, principal payments are made by HUD and interest payments are made from a sinking fund held at the state for this purpose. The balance in this fund as of August 31, 1987, was $31,000. At this time, Clinch Valley does not contribute to the sinking fund; but when the fund is depleted, Clinch Valley College will be responsible for interest payments on this issue. The average amount required over the next fifteen years for this obligation, therefore, would be approximately $17,700 annually.

second outstanding bond issue represented in the attachments is the 1984 Series B issue for $515,000 for Phase I of the Student Housing for 96 construction. The average amount required for principal and interest payments over the next fifteen years for this obligation would be approximately $56,250 annually. To conclude, the total requirement for existing debt service for the next fifteen years for completed dormitory facilities at Clinch Valley College would be approximately $73,950. This figure is identified in Attachment A as "Existing Debt Service."

The University of Virginia at Clinch Valley College hopes to demonstrate with this revised feasibility study that revenue from the dormitory system can support new bond issues without any significant impact on the fees charged to students.

ATTACHMENT A REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE DORMITORY "SYSTEM" EXCLUDING THE 36 NEW BEDS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ANNUAL REVENUES:

REGULAR SESSION

92 BEDS x $1260 x .98 OCCUPANCY

$113,602

300 BEDS x $1110 x .98 OCCUPANCY

$326,340

SUMMER SESSION

92 BEDS x $450 x .70 OCCUPANCY

$28,980

300 BEDS x $400 x .70 OCCUPANCY

$84,000

$552,922

MINUS ANNUAL OPERATING EXPENDITURES

PERSONAL SERVICES

$115,264

CONTRACTUAL SERVICES

$36,500

SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT

$49,200

OTHER COSTS

$4,500

$205,464

RESERVE CONTRIBUTION

$27,645

$233,109

AVAILABLE FOR DEBT SERVICE

$319,813

EXISTING DEBT SERVICE

$73,950

AVAILABLE FOR NEW DEBT SERVICE

$245,863

PROPOSED FOR OTHER NEW DEBT

$68,220

NET SYSTEM CONTRIBUTION

$177,643

ANNUAL REVENUES: REGULAR SESSION 92 BEDS x $1260 x .98 OCCUPANCY $113,602 300 BEDS x $1110 x .98 OCCUPANCY $326,340 SUMMER SESSION 92 BEDS x $450 x .70 OCCUPANCY $28,980 300 BEDS x $400 x .70 OCCUPANCY $84,000 $552,922 MINUS ANNUAL OPERATING EXPENDITURES PERSONAL SERVICES $115,264 CONTRACTUAL SERVICES $36,500 SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT $49,200 OTHER COSTS $4,500 $205,464 RESERVE CONTRIBUTION $27,645 $233,109 AVAILABLE FOR DEBT SERVICE $319,813 EXISTING DEBT SERVICE $73,950 AVAILABLE FOR NEW DEBT SERVICE $245,863 PROPOSED FOR OTHER NEW DEBT $68,220 NET SYSTEM CONTRIBUTION $177,643

INCLUDING THE 36 NEW BEDS, CVC WILL HAVE 128 BEDS IN THE SYSTEM AT THE CURRENT RATE OF $1260 FOR THE REGULAR SESSION. THE REMAINING 300 BEDS ARE AT THE CURRENT RATE OF $1110.

EXISTING DEBT SHOWN ABOVE INCLUDES ONLY AMOUNTS IDENTIFIED IN ATTACHMENTS B AND C. IT EXCLUDES ANY DEBT PROPOSED FOR THE 1988 BOND ISSUANCE.

RESERVE CONTRIBUTION IS APPROXIMATELY 5% OF REVENUE. THIS IS NOT A REQUIREMENT OF THE BOND INDENTURES AND IS NOT REFLECTED IN THE WORKSHEET ENTITLED "REVENUE BOND PARAMETERS."

OTHER NEW DEBT IS IDENTIFIED IN REVISED FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR P.C. 11883.

ATTACHMENT B DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE
----------------------------------

PERIOD ENDING

PRINCIPAL

ANNUAL RATE

INTEREST

TOTAL

1 05/01/74

15,040.00

15,040.00

2 11/01/74

15,040.00

15.040.00

3 05/01/75

5,000.00

7.500

15,040.00

20,040.00

4 11/01/75

14,852.50

14,852.50

5 05/01/76

5,000.00

7.500

14,852.50

19,852.50

6 11/01/76

14,665.00

14,665.00

7 05/01/77

5,000.00

7.500

14,665.00

19,665.00

8 11/01/77

14,477.50

14,477.50

9 05/01/78

5,000.00

7.500

14,477.50

19,477.50

10 11/01/78

14,290.00

14,290.00

11 05/01/79

5,000.00

7.500

14,290.00

19,290.00

12 11/01/79

14,102.50

14,102.50

13 05/01/80

5,000.00

7.500

14,102.50

19,102.50

14 11/01/80

13,915.00

13.915.00

15 05/01/81

5,000.00

7.500

13,915.00

18,915.00

16 11/01/81

13,727.50

13,727.50

17 05/01/82

5,000.00

7.500

13,727.50

18,727.50

18 11/01/82

13,540.00

13,540.00

19 05/01/83

5,000.00

7.500

13,540.00

13,540.00

20 11/01/83

13,352.50

13,352.50

21 05/01/84

5,000.00

7.500

13,352.50

18,352.50

22 11/01/84

13,165.00

13,165.00

23 05/01/85

5,000.00

7.500

13,165.00

18,165.00

24 11/01/85

12,977.50

12,977.50

25 05/01/86

5,000.00

7.500

12,977.50

17,977.50

26 11/01/86

12,790.00

12,790.00

27 05/01/87

10,000.00

7.500

12,790.00

22,790.00

28 11/01/87

12,415.00

12,415.00

29 05/01/88

10,000.00

7.500

12,415.00

22,415.00

30 11/01/88

12,040.00

12,040.00

31 05/01/89

10,000.00

5.875

12,040.00

22,040.00

32 11/01/89

11,746.25

11,746.25

33 05/01/90

10,000.00

5.500

11,746.25

21,746.25

34 11/01/90

11,471.25

11,471.25

35 05/01/91

10,000.00

5.500

11,471.25

21,471.25

36 11/01/91

11,196.25

11,196.25

37 05/01/92

10,000.00

5.500

11,196.25

21,196.25

38 11/01/92

10,921.25

10,921.25

39 05/01/93

10,000.00

5.500

10,921.25

20,921.25

40 11/01/93

10,646.25

10,646.25

Interest start date: 11/01/73

First interest payment: 05/01/74

DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE PERIOD ENDING PRINCIPAL ANNUAL RATE INTEREST TOTAL 1 05/01/74 15,040.00 15,040.00 2 11/01/74 15,040.00 15.040.00 3 05/01/75 5,000.00 7.500 15,040.00 20,040.00 4 11/01/75 14,852.50 14,852.50 5 05/01/76 5,000.00 7.500 14,852.50 19,852.50 6 11/01/76 14,665.00 14,665.00 7 05/01/77 5,000.00 7.500 14,665.00 19,665.00 8 11/01/77 14,477.50 14,477.50 9 05/01/78 5,000.00 7.500 14,477.50 19,477.50 10 11/01/78 14,290.00 14,290.00 11 05/01/79 5,000.00 7.500 14,290.00 19,290.00 12 11/01/79 14,102.50 14,102.50 13 05/01/80 5,000.00 7.500 14,102.50 19,102.50 14 11/01/80 13,915.00 13.915.00 15 05/01/81 5,000.00 7.500 13,915.00 18,915.00 16 11/01/81 13,727.50 13,727.50 17 05/01/82 5,000.00 7.500 13,727.50 18,727.50 18 11/01/82 13,540.00 13,540.00 19 05/01/83 5,000.00 7.500 13,540.00 13,540.00 20 11/01/83 13,352.50 13,352.50 21 05/01/84 5,000.00 7.500 13,352.50 18,352.50 22 11/01/84 13,165.00 13,165.00 23 05/01/85 5,000.00 7.500 13,165.00 18,165.00 24 11/01/85 12,977.50 12,977.50 25 05/01/86 5,000.00 7.500 12,977.50 17,977.50 26 11/01/86 12,790.00 12,790.00 27 05/01/87 10,000.00 7.500 12,790.00 22,790.00 28 11/01/87 12,415.00 12,415.00 29 05/01/88 10,000.00 7.500 12,415.00 22,415.00 30 11/01/88 12,040.00 12,040.00 31 05/01/89 10,000.00 5.875 12,040.00 22,040.00 32 11/01/89 11,746.25 11,746.25 33 05/01/90 10,000.00 5.500 11,746.25 21,746.25 34 11/01/90 11,471.25 11,471.25 35 05/01/91 10,000.00 5.500 11,471.25 21,471.25 36 11/01/91 11,196.25 11,196.25 37 05/01/92 10,000.00 5.500 11,196.25 21,196.25 38 11/01/92 10,921.25 10,921.25 39 05/01/93 10,000.00 5.500 10,921.25 20,921.25 40 11/01/93 10,646.25 10,646.25

DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE
---------------------

PERIOD ENDING

PRINCIPAL

ANNUAL RATE

INTEREST

TOTAL

41 05/01/94

10,000.00

5.500

10,646.25

20,646.25

42 11/01/94

10,371.25

10,371.25

43 05/01/95

10,000.00

5.500

10,371.25

20,371.25

44 11/01/95

10,096.25

10,096.25

45 05/01/96

10,000.00

5.600

10,096.25

20,096.25

46 11/01/96

9,816.25

9,816.25

47 05/01/97

15,000.00

5.600

9,816.25

24,816.25

48 11/01/97

9,396.25

9,396.25

49 05/01/98

15,000.00

5.600

9,396.25

24,396.25

50 11/01/98

8,976.25

8,976.25

51 05/01/99

15,000.00

5.600

8,976.25

23,976.25

52 11/01/99

8,556.25

8,556.25

53 05/01/00

15,000.00

5.750

8,556.25

23,556.25

54 11/01/00

8,125.00

8,125.00

55 05/01/01

20,000.00

5.750

8,125.00

28,125.00

56 11/01/01

7,550.00

7,550.00

57 05/01/02

20,000.00

5.750

7,550.00

27,550.00

58 11/01/02

6,975.00

6,975.00

59 05/01/03

20,000.00

5.750

6,975.00

26,975.00

60 11/01/03

6,400.00

6,400.00

61 05/01/04

25,000.00

5.750

6,400.00

31,400.00

62 11/01/04

5,681.25

5,681.25

63 05/01/05

25,000.00

5.750

5,681.25

30,681.25

64 11/01/05

4,962.50

4,962.50

65 05/01/06

25,000.00

5.750

4,962.50

29,962.50

66 11/01/06

4,243.75

4,243.75

67 05/01/07

25,000.00

5.750

4,243.75

29,243.75

68 11/01/07

3,525.00

3,525.00

69 05/01/08

30,000.00

5.875

3,525.00

33,525.00

70 11/01/08

2,643.75

2,643.75

71 05/01/09

30,000.00

5.875

2,643.75

32,643.75

72 11/01/09

1,762.50

1,762.50

73 05/01/10

30,000.00

5.875

1,762.50

31,762.50

74 11/01/10

881.25

881.25

75 05/01/11

30,000.00

5.875

881.25

30,881.25

TOTAL

500,000.00

757,627.50

1,257,627.50

Interest start date: 11/01/73

First interest payment: 05/01/74

DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE PERIOD ENDING PRINCIPAL ANNUAL RATE INTEREST TOTAL 41 05/01/94 10,000.00 5.500 10,646.25 20,646.25 42 11/01/94 10,371.25 10,371.25 43 05/01/95 10,000.00 5.500 10,371.25 20,371.25 44 11/01/95 10,096.25 10,096.25 45 05/01/96 10,000.00 5.600 10,096.25 20,096.25 46 11/01/96 9,816.25 9,816.25 47 05/01/97 15,000.00 5.600 9,816.25 24,816.25 48 11/01/97 9,396.25 9,396.25 49 05/01/98 15,000.00 5.600 9,396.25 24,396.25 50 11/01/98 8,976.25 8,976.25 51 05/01/99 15,000.00 5.600 8,976.25 23,976.25 52 11/01/99 8,556.25 8,556.25 53 05/01/00 15,000.00 5.750 8,556.25 23,556.25 54 11/01/00 8,125.00 8,125.00 55 05/01/01 20,000.00 5.750 8,125.00 28,125.00 56 11/01/01 7,550.00 7,550.00 57 05/01/02 20,000.00 5.750 7,550.00 27,550.00 58 11/01/02 6,975.00 6,975.00 59 05/01/03 20,000.00 5.750 6,975.00 26,975.00 60 11/01/03 6,400.00 6,400.00 61 05/01/04 25,000.00 5.750 6,400.00 31,400.00 62 11/01/04 5,681.25 5,681.25 63 05/01/05 25,000.00 5.750 5,681.25 30,681.25 64 11/01/05 4,962.50 4,962.50 65 05/01/06 25,000.00 5.750 4,962.50 29,962.50 66 11/01/06 4,243.75 4,243.75 67 05/01/07 25,000.00 5.750 4,243.75 29,243.75 68 11/01/07 3,525.00 3,525.00 69 05/01/08 30,000.00 5.875 3,525.00 33,525.00 70 11/01/08 2,643.75 2,643.75 71 05/01/09 30,000.00 5.875 2,643.75 32,643.75 72 11/01/09 1,762.50 1,762.50 73 05/01/10 30,000.00 5.875 1,762.50 31,762.50 74 11/01/10 881.25 881.25 75 05/01/11 30,000.00 5.875 881.25 30,881.25 TOTAL 500,000.00 757,627.50 1,257,627.50

ATTACHMENT C UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE HOUSING SERIES 1984 DDEBT SERVICE SCHEDULEUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ACQUISITION - STUDENT HOUSING FOR 36 STUDENTS MATURITY SCHEDULE FOR $ 360,000 BONDS 15-YEAR SCHEDULEFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE I 10-May-88REVENUE BOND PARAMETERSFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE II 10-May-88RESERVE FUND TRANSACTIONSFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE III 10-May-88REPAYMENT SCHEDULE: INTEREST= 0,0850 REINVESTMENT RATE= 0.0000FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE IV 10-May-88NON RECURRING INITIAL OUTLAYS NOT FINANCED NITB BOND PROCEEDSINCREMENTAL ANNUAL OPERATING EXPENSESFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE V 10-May-88INCREASED INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS AND AND NON-RECURRING INITIAL OUTLAYSFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE VI 10-May-88CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROJECT COSTSFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE VII 10-May-88PRESENT VALUE OF PROJECT COSTSFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE VIII 10-May-88FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE IX 10-May-88 ONLY INCREMENTAL INCREASES RELATED TO THIS PROJECTFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE XII 10-May-88FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE XVII 10-May-88FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE XVIII 14-Oct-87CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROJECT REVENUESFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE XIX 14-Oct-87FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE XX 14-Oct-87CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROJECT NET REVENUES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PERIOD ENDING

PRINCIPAL

ANNUAL RATE

INTEREST

TOTAL

1 06/01/85

10,000.00

12.250

52,192.29

62,192.29

2 06/01/86

10,000.00

12.250

46,952.50

56,952.50

3 06/01/87

10,000.00

12.250

45,727.50

55,727.50

4 06/01/88

10,000.00

12.250

44,502.50

54,502.50

5 06/01/89

15,000.00

12.250

43,277.50

58,277.50

6 06/01/90

15,000.00

12.250

41,440.00

56,440.00

7 06/01/91

20,000.00

12.250

39,602.50

59,602.50

8 06/01/92

20,000.00

8.000

37,152.50

57,152.50

9 06/01/93

20,000.00

8.250

35,552.50

55,552.50

10 06/01/94

25,000.00

8.500

33,902.50

58,902.50

11 06/01/95

25,000.00

8.600

31,777.50

56,777.50

12 06/01/96

25,000.00

8.800

29,627.50

54,627.50

13 06/01/97

25,000.00

9.000

27,427.50

52,427.50

14 06/01/98

30,000.00

9.100

25,177.50

55,177.50

15 06/01/99

30,000.00

9.200

22,447.50

52,447.50

16 06/01/00

40,000.00

9.250

19,687.50

59,687.50

17 06/01/01

40,000.00

9.250

15,987.50

55,987.50

18 06/01/02

45,000.00

9.250

12,287.50

57,287.50

19 06/01/03

50,000.00

9.250

8,125.00

58,125.00

20 06/01/04

50,000.00

7.000

3,500.00

53,500.00

TOTAL

515,000.00

616,347.29

1,131,347.29

Interest Rate

8.50%

Year

Principal Balance

Interest Payment

Principal Payment

P&I Payment

110% Coverage

360,000.00

1988-89

347,248.63

30,600.00

12,751.37

43,351.37

47,686.50

1989-90

333,413.40

29,516.13

13,835.23

43,351.37

47,686.50

1990-91

318,402.17

28,340.14

15,011.23

43,351.37

47,686.50

1991-92

302,114.99

27,064.18

16,287.18

43,351.37

47,686.50

1992-93

284,443.40

25,679.77

17,671.59

43,351.37

47,686.50

1993-94

265,269.72

24,177.69

19,173.68

43,351.37

47,686.50

1994-95

244,466.29

22,547.93

20,803.44

43,351.37

47,686.50

1995-96

221,894.55

20,779.63

22,571.73

43,351.37

47,686.50

1996-97

197,404.22

18,861.04

24,490.33

43,351.37

47,686.50

1997-98

170,832.22

16,779.36

26,572.01

43,351.37

47,686.50

1998-99

142,001.59

14,520.74

28,830.63

43,351.37

47,686.50

1999-00

110,720.36

12,070.14

31,281.23

43,351.37

47,686.50

2000-01

76,780.22

9,411.23

33,940.14

43,351.37

47,686.50

2001-02

39,955.18

6,526.32

36,825.05

43,351.37

47,686.50

2002-03

0.00

3,396.19

39,955.18

43,351.37

47,686.50

TERMS OF INDENTURE

AMOUNT

PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF BOND

360.000

INTEREST RATE ON BOND

0.0850

NUMBER OF YEARS OF REPAYMENT

15

FIRST YEAR OF REPAYMENT

1989

RESERVE REQUIREMENT PERCENT

0.0000

RESERVE PAYMENT AMOUNT

0

ANNUAL PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST PAYMENT

43.351

TOTAL ANNUAL PAYMENT

43.351

YEAR

EST MAINT EXP

DEDUCTIONS

ADDITIONS

NET CHANGE

1989

0

0

0

0

1990

0

0

0

0

1991

0

0

0

0

1992

0

0

0

0

1993

0

0

0

0

1994

0

0

0

0

1995

0

0

0

0

1996

0

0

0

0

1997

0

0

0

0

1998

0

0

0

0

1999

0

0

0

0

2000

0

0

0

0

2001

0

0

0

0

2002

0

0

0

0

2003

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

YEAR

RESERVE FUND PAYMENT

INTEREST PAID

PRINCIPAL PAID

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE

PRINCIPAL BALANCE

RESERVE FUND BALANCE

1989

0

30,600

12,751

43,351

347,249

0

1990

0

29,516

13,835

43,351

333,413

0

1991

0

28,340

15,011

43,351

318,402

0

1992

0

27,064

16,287

43,351

302,115

0

1993

0

25,680

17,672

43,351

284,443

0

1994

0

24,178

19,174

43,351

,270

0

1995

0

22,548

20,803

43,351

244,466

0

1996

0

20,780

22,572

43,351

221,895

0

1997

0

18,861

24,490

43,351

197,404

0

1998

0

16,779

26,572

43,351

170,832

0

1999

0

14,521

28,831

43,351

142,002

0

2000

0

12,070

31,281

43,351

110,720

0

2001

0

9,411

33,940

43,351

76,780

0

2002

0

6,526

36,825

43,351

39,955

0

2003

0

3,396

39,955

43,351

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

290,270

360,000

650,270

ITEM

1989

1990

PERSONAL SERVICES

0

0

A/E SERVICES

0

0

SITE DEVELOPMENT

0

0

INTERIN FINANCE CHARGE

0

0

EQUIPMENT

0

0

OTHER

0

0

TOTAL

0

0

ITEM

1980

1990

1991

1992

PERSONAL SERICES

7,800

7,800

7,800

7,800

CONTRACTUAL SERVICES

4,500

4,500

4,500

4,500

SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS

3,000

3,000

3,000

3,000

A INIRECT COSTS

720

720

720

720

UTILITIES

2,880

2,880

2,880

2,880

EQUIPMENT

1,000

1,000

1,000

1,000

TOTAL

19,900

19,900

19,900

19,900

YEARS 1-4

YEARS 5+

ASSUMED GROWTH RATE:

PERSONAL SERVICES

0,0000

0,0000

OTHER OBJECTS

0,0000

0,0000

YEAR

PERSONAL SERVICES

OTHER OBJECTS

TOTAL

1989

7,800

12,100

19,900

1990

7,800

12,100

19,900

1991

7,800

12,100

19,900

1992

7,800

12,100

19,900

1993

7,800

12,100

19,900

1994

7,800

12,100

19,900

1995

7,800

12,100

19,900

1996

7,800

12,100

19,900

1997

7,800

12,100

19,900

1998

7,800

12,100

19,900

1999

7,800

12,100

19,900

2000

7,800

12,100

19,900

2001

7,800

12,100

19,900

2002

7,800

12,100

19,900

2003

7,800

12,100

19,900

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

117,000

181,500

298,500

YEAR

PERSONAL SERVICES

OTHER OBJECTS

RESERVE FUND PAYMENT

INTEREST PAID

PRINCIPAL PAID

TOTAL PROJECT COSTS

RESERVE FUND BALANCE

1989

7,800

12,100

0

30,600

12,751

63,251

0

1990

7,800

12,100

0

29,516

13,835

63,251

0

1991

7,800

12,100

0

28,340

15,011

63,251

0

1992

7,800

12,100

0

27,064

16,287

63,251

0

1993

7,800

12,100

0

25,680

17,672

63,251

0

1994

7,800

12,100

0

24,178

19,174

63,251

0

1995

7,800

12,100

0

22,548

20,803

63,251

0

1996

7,800

12,100

0

20,780

22,572

63,251

0

1997

7,800

12,100

0

18,861

24,490

63,251

0

1998

7,800

12,100

0

16,779

26,572

63,251

0

1999

7,800

12,100

0

14,51

28,832

63,251

0

2000

7,800

12,100

0

12,070

31,281

63,251

0

2001

7,800

12,100

0

9,411

33,940

63,251

0

2002

7,800

12,100

0

6,526

36,825

63,251

0

2003

7,800

12,100

0

3,396

39,955

63,251

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

117,000

131,500

0

290,270

360,000

948,770

COST COMPONENTS

AMOUNT

PERSONAL SERVICES

64,773

OTHER OBJECTS

100,481

RESERVE FUND PAYMENTS

0

INTEREST PAID

183,714

PRINCIPAL PAID

176,286

PRESENT VALUE OF PROJECT COSTS

525,254

DISCOUNT RATE

0,0850

USER FEE - DORM

AMOUNT

REGULAR SESSION

1) NUMBER OF BEDS

2) REGULAR SESSION FEE (AVERAGE IF NECESSARY)

3) OCCUPANCY RATE

SUMMER SESSION

1) NUMBER OF BEDS

2) SUMMER SESSION FEE (AVERAGE IF NECESSARY)

3) OCCUPANCY RATE

TOTAL ANNUAL REVENUE FROM THIS SOURCE

55,73

DORM USER PARAMETERS

AMOUNT

1) RATE AT WHICH FEES WILL GROW IN YEARS 1-4

0.0000

2) RATE AT WHICH FEES WILL GROW IN YEARS 5+

0.0000

3) CURRENT REGULAR SESSION RATE

1,260

4) CURRENT SUMMER SESSION RATE

450

5) TOTAL NO, OF BEDS BEFORE PROJECT

92

6) TOTAL NUMBER OF BEDS AFTER PROJECT

128

7) WILL OTHER DORM "SYSTEM" USERS CONTRIBUTE REVENUE TO THIS PROJECT

YES

(NO=0 YES=1)

DORM "SYSTEM" CONTRIBUTION

AMOUNT

REGULAR SESSION

1) NUMBER OF BEDS

2) REGULAR SESSION FEE INCREASE (AVERAGE IF NECESSARY)

3) OCCUPANCY RATE

SUMMER SESSION

1) NUMBER OF BEDS

2) SUMMER SESSION FEE INCREASE (AVERAGE IF NECESSARY)

3) OCCUPANCY RATE

TOTAL AUAL REVENUE FROM THIS SOURCE

0

DORM SYSTEM PARAMETERS

AMOUNT

1) RATE AT FEES WILL GRON IN YEARS 1-4

0.0000

2) RATE AT ICB FEES WILL GRON IN YEARS 5

,0000

3) CURRENT REGULAR SESSION RATE

1,135

4) CURRENT SUMMER SESSION RATE

425

ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS - FTES

REGULAR SESSION SUMMER SESSION

YEAR

FULL

PART

FULL

PART

TOTAL BOLLAR CONTRIBUTION

(RATE)

0.00

0.00

0.00

0.00

1989

1,015

399

80

425

$0

1990

1,015

399

80

425

$0

1991

1,015

399

80

425

$0

1992

1,015

399

80

425

$0

1993

1,015

399

80

425

$0

1994

1,015

399

80

425

$0

1995

1,015

399

80

425

$0

1996

1,015

399

80

425

$0

1997

1,015

399

80

425

$0

1998

1,015

399

80

425

$0

OTHER SOURCES

PLEASE SPECIFY YEAR IN ICR FUNDS BECOME AVAILABLE AND AMOUNT OF FUNDS. IF REVEUE STREAM ENDS DURING LIFE OF THE PROJECT, ENTER A NEGATIVE NUMBER IN THE APPROPRIATE YEAR. KEY NUMBER TO DESCRIPTION IN PROJECT WRITE-UP.

YEAR

AMOUNT

1-FIRST FUNDS AVAILABLE

1989

177,643

2-SECOND FUNDS AVAILABLE

0

0

3-THIRD FUNDS AVAILABLE

0

0

4-FOURTH FUNDS AVAILABLE

0

0

YEAR

USER FEES

GENERAL STUDENT FEES

RECOVERIES

REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS

INSTITUTIONAL RESERVES

RETIREMENT OF EXISTING DEBT

OTHER

TOTAL

1989

55,793

0

0

0

0

0

177,643

233,436

1990

55,793

0

0

0

0

0

177,643

233,436

1991

55,793

0

0

0

0

0

177,643

233,436

1992

55,793

0

0

0

0

0

177,643

233,436

1993

55,793

0

0

0

0

0

177,643

233,436

1994

55,793

0

0

0

0

0

177,643

233,436

1995

55,793

0

0

0

0

0

177,643

233,436

1996

55,793

0

0

0

0

0

177,643

233,436

1997

55,793

0

0

0

0

0

177,643

233,436

1998

55,793

0

0

0

0

0

177,643

233,436

1999

55,793

0

0

0

0

0

177,643

233,436

2000

55,793

0

0

0

0

0

177,643

233,436

2001

55,793

0

0

0

0

0

177,643

233,436

2002

55,793

0

0

0

0

0

177,643

233,436

2003

55,793

0

0

0

0

0

177,643

233,436

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

SCREEN

TM

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

836,892

0

0

0

0

0

2,664,645

3,501,537

REVENUE SOURCES

AMOUNT

1) USER FEES

463,317

2) GENERAL STUDENT FEES

0

3) RECOVERIES

0

4) REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS

0

5) INSTITUTIONAL RESERVES

0

6) RETIREMENT OF EXISTING DEBT

0

7) OTHER

1,475,189

PRESENT VALUE OF PROJECT REVENUE CASH FLOW

1,938,506

DISCOUNT RATE

0.0850

YEAR

\*\*Excludes Reserve Fund Payments TOTAL PROJECT COSTS

TOTAL PROJECT REVENUE

NET PROJECT REVENUE

COVERAGE PERCENT

1989

63,251

233,436

170,184

369.06%

1990

63,251

233,436

170,184

369.06%

1991

63,251

233,436

170,184

369.06%

1992

63,251

233,436

170,184

369.06%

1993

63,251

233,436

170,184

369.06%

1994

63,251

233,436

170,184

369.06%

1995

63,251

233,436

170,184

369.06%

1996

63,251

233,436

170,184

369.06%

1997

63,251

233,436

170,184

369.06%

1998

63,251

233,436

170,184

369.06%

1999

63,251

233,436

170,184

369.06%

2000

63,251

233,436

170,184

369.06%

2001

63,251

233,436

170,184

369.06%

2002

63,251

233,436

170,184

369.06%

2003

63,251

233,436

170,184

369.06%

0

0

0

(0)

0.00%

0

0

0

(0)

0.00%

0

0

0

(0)

0.00%

0

0

0

(0)

0.00%

0

0

0

(0)

0.00%

0

0

0

(0)

0.00%

0

0

0

(0)

0.00%

0

0

0

(0)

0.00%

0

0

0

(0)

0.00%

0

0

0

(0)

0.00%

0

0

0

(0)

0.00%

0

0

0

(0)

0.00%

0

0

0

(0)

0.00%

0

0

0

(0)

0.00%

0

0

0

(0)

0.00%

948,770

3,501,537

2,552,767

Interest start date: 05/01/84

First interest payment: 12/01/84

DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE PERIOD ENDING PRINCIPAL ANNUAL RATE INTEREST TOTAL 1 06/01/85 10,000.00 12.250 52,192.29 62,192.29 2 06/01/86 10,000.00 12.250 46,952.50 56,952.50 3 06/01/87 10,000.00 12.250 45,727.50 55,727.50 4 06/01/88 10,000.00 12.250 44,502.50 54,502.50 5 06/01/89 15,000.00 12.250 43,277.50 58,277.50 6 06/01/90 15,000.00 12.250 41,440.00 56,440.00 7 06/01/91 20,000.00 12.250 39,602.50 59,602.50 8 06/01/92 20,000.00 8.000 37,152.50 57,152.50 9 06/01/93 20,000.00 8.250 35,552.50 55,552.50 10 06/01/94 25,000.00 8.500 33,902.50 58,902.50 11 06/01/95 25,000.00 8.600 31,777.50 56,777.50 12 06/01/96 25,000.00 8.800 29,627.50 54,627.50 13 06/01/97 25,000.00 9.000 27,427.50 52,427.50 14 06/01/98 30,000.00 9.100 25,177.50 55,177.50 15 06/01/99 30,000.00 9.200 22,447.50 52,447.50 16 06/01/00 40,000.00 9.250 19,687.50 59,687.50 17 06/01/01 40,000.00 9.250 15,987.50 55,987.50 18 06/01/02 45,000.00 9.250 12,287.50 57,287.50 19 06/01/03 50,000.00 9.250 8,125.00 58,125.00 20 06/01/04 50,000.00 7.000 3,500.00 53,500.00 TOTAL 515,000.00 616,347.29 1,131,347.29

AVERAGE ANNUAL PAYMENT OVER 15-YEAR PERIOD FROM 06/01/90 TO 06/01/04 IS $ 56,246.33

Interest Rate 8.50% Year Principal Balance Interest Payment Principal Payment P&I Payment 110% Coverage 360,000.00 1988-89 347,248.63 30,600.00 12,751.37 43,351.37 47,686.50 1989-90 333,413.40 29,516.13 13,835.23 43,351.37 47,686.50 1990-91 318,402.17 28,340.14 15,011.23 43,351.37 47,686.50 1991-92 302,114.99 27,064.18 16,287.18 43,351.37 47,686.50 1992-93 284,443.40 25,679.77 17,671.59 43,351.37 47,686.50 1993-94 265,269.72 24,177.69 19,173.68 43,351.37 47,686.50 1994-95 244,466.29 22,547.93 20,803.44 43,351.37 47,686.50 1995-96 221,894.55 20,779.63 22,571.73 43,351.37 47,686.50 1996-97 197,404.22 18,861.04 24,490.33 43,351.37 47,686.50 1997-98 170,832.22 16,779.36 26,572.01 43,351.37 47,686.50 1998-99 142,001.59 14,520.74 28,830.63 43,351.37 47,686.50 1999-00 110,720.36 12,070.14 31,281.23 43,351.37 47,686.50 2000-01 76,780.22 9,411.23 33,940.14 43,351.37 47,686.50 2001-02 39,955.18 6,526.32 36,825.05 43,351.37 47,686.50 2002-03 0.00 3,396.19 39,955.18 43,351.37 47,686.50

REVENUE BOND PARAMETERS TERMS OF INDENTURE AMOUNT PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF BOND 360.000 INTEREST RATE ON BOND 0.0850 NUMBER OF YEARS OF REPAYMENT 15 FIRST YEAR OF REPAYMENT 1989 RESERVE REQUIREMENT PERCENT 0.0000 RESERVE PAYMENT AMOUNT 0 ANNUAL PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST PAYMENT 43.351 TOTAL ANNUAL PAYMENT 43.351

RESERVE FUND TRANSACTIONS YEAR EST MAINT EXP DEDUCTIONS ADDITIONS NET CHANGE 1989 0 0 0 0 1990 0 0 0 0 1991 0 0 0 0 1992 0 0 0 0 1993 0 0 0 0 1994 0 0 0 0 1995 0 0 0 0 1996 0 0 0 0 1997 0 0 0 0 1998 0 0 0 0 1999 0 0 0 0 2000 0 0 0 0 2001 0 0 0 0 2002 0 0 0 0 2003 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

REPAYMENT SCHEDULE: INTEREST= 0,0850 REINVESTMENT RATE= 0.0000 YEAR RESERVE FUND PAYMENT INTEREST PAID PRINCIPAL PAID TOTAL DEBT SERVICE PRINCIPAL BALANCE RESERVE FUND BALANCE 1989 0 30,600 12,751 43,351 347,249 0 1990 0 29,516 13,835 43,351 333,413 0 1991 0 28,340 15,011 43,351 318,402 0 1992 0 27,064 16,287 43,351 302,115 0 1993 0 25,680 17,672 43,351 284,443 0 1994 0 24,178 19,174 43,351 ,270 0 1995 0 22,548 20,803 43,351 244,466 0 1996 0 20,780 22,572 43,351 221,895 0 1997 0 18,861 24,490 43,351 197,404 0 1998 0 16,779 26,572 43,351 170,832 0 1999 0 14,521 28,831 43,351 142,002 0 2000 0 12,070 31,281 43,351 110,720 0 2001 0 9,411 33,940 43,351 76,780 0 2002 0 6,526 36,825 43,351 39,955 0 2003 0 3,396 39,955 43,351 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 290,270 360,000 650,270

NON RECURRING INITIAL OUTLAYS NOT FINANCED NITB BOND PROCEEDS ITEM 1989 1990 PERSONAL SERVICES 0 0 A/E SERVICES 0 0 SITE DEVELOPMENT 0 0 INTERIN FINANCE CHARGE 0 0 EQUIPMENT 0 0 OTHER 0 0 TOTAL 0 0

INCREMENTAL ANNUAL OPERATING EXPENSES ITEM 1980 1990 1991 1992 PERSONAL SERICES 7,800 7,800 7,800 7,800 CONTRACTUAL SERVICES 4,500 4,500 4,500 4,500 SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS 3,000 3,000 3,000 3,000 A INIRECT COSTS 720 720 720 720 UTILITIES 2,880 2,880 2,880 2,880 EQUIPMENT 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 TOTAL 19,900 19,900 19,900 19,900

INCREASED INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS AND AND NON-RECURRING INITIAL OUTLAYS YEARS 1-4 YEARS 5+ ASSUMED GROWTH RATE: PERSONAL SERVICES 0,0000 0,0000 OTHER OBJECTS 0,0000 0,0000 YEAR PERSONAL SERVICES OTHER OBJECTS TOTAL 1989 7,800 12,100 19,900 1990 7,800 12,100 19,900 1991 7,800 12,100 19,900 1992 7,800 12,100 19,900 1993 7,800 12,100 19,900 1994 7,800 12,100 19,900 1995 7,800 12,100 19,900 1996 7,800 12,100 19,900 1997 7,800 12,100 19,900 1998 7,800 12,100 19,900 1999 7,800 12,100 19,900 2000 7,800 12,100 19,900 2001 7,800 12,100 19,900 2002 7,800 12,100 19,900 2003 7,800 12,100 19,900 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 117,000 181,500 298,500

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROJECT COSTS YEAR PERSONAL SERVICES OTHER OBJECTS RESERVE FUND PAYMENT INTEREST PAID PRINCIPAL PAID TOTAL PROJECT COSTS RESERVE FUND BALANCE 1989 7,800 12,100 0 30,600 12,751 63,251 0 1990 7,800 12,100 0 29,516 13,835 63,251 0 1991 7,800 12,100 0 28,340 15,011 63,251 0 1992 7,800 12,100 0 27,064 16,287 63,251 0 1993 7,800 12,100 0 25,680 17,672 63,251 0 1994 7,800 12,100 0 24,178 19,174 63,251 0 1995 7,800 12,100 0 22,548 20,803 63,251 0 1996 7,800 12,100 0 20,780 22,572 63,251 0 1997 7,800 12,100 0 18,861 24,490 63,251 0 1998 7,800 12,100 0 16,779 26,572 63,251 0 1999 7,800 12,100 0 14,51 28,832 63,251 0 2000 7,800 12,100 0 12,070 31,281 63,251 0 2001 7,800 12,100 0 9,411 33,940 63,251 0 2002 7,800 12,100 0 6,526 36,825 63,251 0 2003 7,800 12,100 0 3,396 39,955 63,251 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 117,000 131,500 0 290,270 360,000 948,770

PRESENT VALUE OF PROJECT COSTS COST COMPONENTS AMOUNT PERSONAL SERVICES 64,773 OTHER OBJECTS 100,481 RESERVE FUND PAYMENTS 0 INTEREST PAID 183,714 PRINCIPAL PAID 176,286 PRESENT VALUE OF PROJECT COSTS 525,254 DISCOUNT RATE 0,0850

USER FEE - DORM AMOUNT REGULAR SESSION 1) NUMBER OF BEDS 2) REGULAR SESSION FEE (AVERAGE IF NECESSARY) 3) OCCUPANCY RATE SUMMER SESSION 1) NUMBER OF BEDS 2) SUMMER SESSION FEE (AVERAGE IF NECESSARY) 3) OCCUPANCY RATE TOTAL ANNUAL REVENUE FROM THIS SOURCE 55,73 DORM USER PARAMETERS AMOUNT 1) RATE AT WHICH FEES WILL GROW IN YEARS 1-4 0.0000 2) RATE AT WHICH FEES WILL GROW IN YEARS 5+ 0.0000 3) CURRENT REGULAR SESSION RATE 1,260 4) CURRENT SUMMER SESSION RATE 450 5) TOTAL NO, OF BEDS BEFORE PROJECT 92 6) TOTAL NUMBER OF BEDS AFTER PROJECT 128 7) WILL OTHER DORM "SYSTEM" USERS CONTRIBUTE REVENUE TO THIS PROJECT YES (NO=0 YES=1)

ONLY INCREMENTAL INCREASES RELATED TO THIS PROJECT DORM "SYSTEM" CONTRIBUTION AMOUNT REGULAR SESSION 1) NUMBER OF BEDS 2) REGULAR SESSION FEE INCREASE (AVERAGE IF NECESSARY) 3) OCCUPANCY RATE SUMMER SESSION 1) NUMBER OF BEDS 2) SUMMER SESSION FEE INCREASE (AVERAGE IF NECESSARY) 3) OCCUPANCY RATE TOTAL AUAL REVENUE FROM THIS SOURCE 0 DORM SYSTEM PARAMETERS AMOUNT 1) RATE AT FEES WILL GRON IN YEARS 1-4 0.0000 2) RATE AT ICB FEES WILL GRON IN YEARS 5 ,0000 3) CURRENT REGULAR SESSION RATE 1,135 4) CURRENT SUMMER SESSION RATE 425

ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS - FTES REGULAR SESSION SUMMER SESSION YEAR FULL PART FULL PART TOTAL BOLLAR CONTRIBUTION (RATE) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1989 1,015 399 80 425 $0 1990 1,015 399 80 425 $0 1991 1,015 399 80 425 $0 1992 1,015 399 80 425 $0 1993 1,015 399 80 425 $0 1994 1,015 399 80 425 $0 1995 1,015 399 80 425 $0 1996 1,015 399 80 425 $0 1997 1,015 399 80 425 $0 1998 1,015 399 80 425 $0

OTHER SOURCES PLEASE SPECIFY YEAR IN ICR FUNDS BECOME AVAILABLE AND AMOUNT OF FUNDS. IF REVEUE STREAM ENDS DURING LIFE OF THE PROJECT, ENTER A NEGATIVE NUMBER IN THE APPROPRIATE YEAR. KEY NUMBER TO DESCRIPTION IN PROJECT WRITE-UP. YEAR AMOUNT 1-FIRST FUNDS AVAILABLE 1989 177,643 2-SECOND FUNDS AVAILABLE 0 0 3-THIRD FUNDS AVAILABLE 0 0 4-FOURTH FUNDS AVAILABLE 0 0

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROJECT REVENUES YEAR USER FEES GENERAL STUDENT FEES RECOVERIES REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS INSTITUTIONAL RESERVES RETIREMENT OF EXISTING DEBT OTHER TOTAL 1989 55,793 0 0 0 0 0 177,643 233,436 1990 55,793 0 0 0 0 0 177,643 233,436 1991 55,793 0 0 0 0 0 177,643 233,436 1992 55,793 0 0 0 0 0 177,643 233,436 1993 55,793 0 0 0 0 0 177,643 233,436 1994 55,793 0 0 0 0 0 177,643 233,436 1995 55,793 0 0 0 0 0 177,643 233,436 1996 55,793 0 0 0 0 0 177,643 233,436 1997 55,793 0 0 0 0 0 177,643 233,436 1998 55,793 0 0 0 0 0 177,643 233,436 1999 55,793 0 0 0 0 0 177,643 233,436 2000 55,793 0 0 0 0 0 177,643 233,436 2001 55,793 0 0 0 0 0 177,643 233,436 2002 55,793 0 0 0 0 0 177,643 233,436 2003 55,793 0 0 0 0 0 177,643 233,436 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 SCREEN TM 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 836,892 0 0 0 0 0 2,664,645 3,501,537

REVENUE SOURCES AMOUNT 1) USER FEES 463,317 2) GENERAL STUDENT FEES 0 3) RECOVERIES 0 4) REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS 0 5) INSTITUTIONAL RESERVES 0 6) RETIREMENT OF EXISTING DEBT 0 7) OTHER 1,475,189 PRESENT VALUE OF PROJECT REVENUE CASH FLOW 1,938,506 DISCOUNT RATE 0.0850

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROJECT NET REVENUES YEAR \*\*Excludes Reserve Fund Payments TOTAL PROJECT COSTS TOTAL PROJECT REVENUE NET PROJECT REVENUE COVERAGE PERCENT 1989 63,251 233,436 170,184 369.06% 1990 63,251 233,436 170,184 369.06% 1991 63,251 233,436 170,184 369.06% 1992 63,251 233,436 170,184 369.06% 1993 63,251 233,436 170,184 369.06% 1994 63,251 233,436 170,184 369.06% 1995 63,251 233,436 170,184 369.06% 1996 63,251 233,436 170,184 369.06% 1997 63,251 233,436 170,184 369.06% 1998 63,251 233,436 170,184 369.06% 1999 63,251 233,436 170,184 369.06% 2000 63,251 233,436 170,184 369.06% 2001 63,251 233,436 170,184 369.06% 2002 63,251 233,436 170,184 369.06% 2003 63,251 233,436 170,184 369.06% 0 0 0 (0) 0.00% 0 0 0 (0) 0.00% 0 0 0 (0) 0.00% 0 0 0 (0) 0.00% 0 0 0 (0) 0.00% 0 0 0 (0) 0.00% 0 0 0 (0) 0.00% 0 0 0 (0) 0.00% 0 0 0 (0) 0.00% 0 0 0 (0) 0.00% 0 0 0 (0) 0.00% 0 0 0 (0) 0.00% 0 0 0 (0) 0.00% 0 0 0 (0) 0.00% 0 0 0 (0) 0.00% 948,770 3,501,537 2,552,767

Excludes Reserve Fund Payments

EXHIBIT B REVISED FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AGENCY 246 FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF STUDENT HOUSING FOR 96 PHASE II PROJECT CODE 11883 OCTOBER 15, 1987TABLE OF CONTENTSCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE CONSTRUCTION OF STUDENT HOUSING FOR 96, PHASE II PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND JUSTIFICATIONCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE STUDENT HOUSING PHASE II (44 BEDS) PROJECT COSTSUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE CONSTRUCTION - STUDENT HOUSING FOR 44 STUDENTS MATURITY SCHEDULE FOR $ 515,000 BONDS 15-YEAR SCHEDULE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND JUSTIFICATION

PROJECT COSTS

ATTACHMENT A

ESTIMATED NET REVENUE FOR CVC DORMITORY SYSTEM

ATTACHMENT B

DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE FOR 1973 SERIES B ISSUE FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE

ATTACHMENT C

DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE FOR 1984 SERIES B ISSUE FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE

CASH FLOW WORKSHEETS

LOTUS FILES "EXPENDITURE OPTION 2" AND "REVENUE OPTION 2" ON FEASIBILITY DISKETTE

Building Contracts

$699,295

Architectural and Engineering Fees

19,213

Architectural and Engineering Reimbursables

3,600

Landscaping

8,200

Work by Owner

100

Preliminary Costs

5,000

Owner's Project Costs

86,900

Furnishings & Equipment by Owner

94,000

Contingencies

43,056

Total Project Costs

$959,364

Project Cost Funded from Mining Royalties

$444,364

Project Cost Funded from Revenue Bonds

$515,000

Personal Services and Fringe Benefits

$ 7,800

Contractual Services

4,500

Supplies and Equipment

4,000

Utilities

2,880

Indirect Costs

720

Total Operating Expenses

$19,900

44 Beds x $1260 x .98 (regular session)

$54,331

44 Beds x $450 x .70 (summer session)

13,860

$68,191

Revenues Generated from 44 Beds

$68,191

Annual Operating Expenditures for 44 Beds

19,900

Net Available for Debt Service

$48,291

Interest Rate

8.50%

Year

Principal Balance

Interest Payment

Principal Payment

P&I Payment

110% Coverage

515,000.00

1988-89

496,758.46

43,775.00

18,241.54

62,016.54

68,218.19

1989-90

476,966.39

42,224.47

19,792.07

62,016.54

68,218.19

1990-91

455,492.00

40,542.14

21,474.39

62,016.54

68,218.19

1991-92

432,192.28

38,716.82

23,299.72

62,016.54

68,218.19

1992-93

406,912.09

36,736.34

25,280.19

62,016.54

68,218.19

1993-94

379,483.08

34,587.53

27,429.01

62,016.54

68,218.19

1994-95

349,722.60

32,256.06

29,760.48

62,016.54

68,218.19

1995-96

317,432.49

29,726.42

32,290.12

62,016.54

68,218.19

1996-97

282,397.71

26,981.76

35,034.78

62,016.54

68,218.19

1997-98

244,384.98

24,003.81

38,012.73

62,016.54

68,218.19

1998-99

203,141.16

20,772.72

41,243.81

62,016.54

68,218.19

1999-00

158,391.62

17,267.00

44,749.54

62,016.54

68,218.19

2000-01

109,838.37

13,463.29

48,553.25

62,016.54

68,218.19

2001-02

57,158.10

9,336.26

52,680.28

62,016.54

68,218.19

2002-03

0.00

4,858.44

57,158.10

62,016.54

68,218.19

TABLE OF CONTENTS PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND JUSTIFICATION PROJECT COSTS ATTACHMENT A ESTIMATED NET REVENUE FOR CVC DORMITORY SYSTEM ATTACHMENT B DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE FOR 1973 SERIES B ISSUE FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ATTACHMENT C DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE FOR 1984 SERIES B ISSUE FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE CASH FLOW WORKSHEETS LOTUS FILES "EXPENDITURE OPTION 2" AND "REVENUE OPTION 2" ON FEASIBILITY DISKETTE

Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia has recently completed construction of the second phase of a student housing facility. The construction of this housing project for 96 students was originally authorized under Item R-2 for the 1980-82 biennium. The project was to be funded from $1,030,000 in revenue bonds and $888,500 in coal mining royalties. A feasibility study was submitted to the Treasurer and approved. In 1983, however, it was determined that revenues from mining royalties could not support the construction of the 96-bed unit, so the decision was made to construct the housing facility in two phases.

Phase I for 48 beds was constructed using $515,000 in revenue bonds and $629,500 in mining royalties. A revised financial feasibility study was submitted to the Treasurer before the 9(c) bond issue in April, 1984. Debt on this bond issue is currently being serviced by dormitory fees. Clinch Valley College requested retention of the balance of the original revenue bond authorization to use when it became feasible to begin construction of Phase II of the housing project. This $515,000 is reflected as a reappropriation under Item R-13 of the Revenue Bond Bill approved during the 1987 General Assembly Session. Phase II of the facility was completed and occupied in September, 1987, and includes 44 beds and a student lounge area.

Project Description and Justification, cont.

Clinch Valley College student housing is a self-supporting auxiliary enterprise, acting in direct support of the educational mission of the college. Clinch Valley has three goals in providing student housing. One is to furnish students with a variety of housing arrangements at reasonable cost. Another is to provide an environment in which each student may achieve the maximum realization of his or her potential, intellectually, socially and physically. The third is to have the ability to move the students from temporary housing, which may be either small rooms on campus or substandard housing in the town of Wise. The population of Wise is only 3,800 and any off-campus housing is very limited. Many of the students cannot commute because of the mountainous terrain and the long distances to surrounding communities. Therefore, housing must be provided for the majority of the student body. At present, the College has beds for less than half of the FTE student population. Occupancy of this dormitory will enable Clinch Valley to better accommodate this critical need for student housing.

Building Contracts $699,295 Architectural and Engineering Fees 19,213 Architectural and Engineering Reimbursables 3,600 Landscaping 8,200 Work by Owner 100 Preliminary Costs 5,000 Owner's Project Costs 86,900 Furnishings & Equipment by Owner 94,000 Contingencies 43,056 Total Project Costs $959,364 Project Cost Funded from Mining Royalties $444,364 Project Cost Funded from Revenue Bonds $515,000

Reappropriation for this project was included in the Revenue Bond Bill approved during the 1987 General Assembly Session. The Item No. is R-13; Project Code is 11883; and Title is Construction: Student Housing for 96. The University financed the construction with a Treasury Anticipation Loan and intends to repay this loan and permanently finance the project with proceeds from revenue bonds.

There will be no initial outlays other than those financed with revenue bond proceeds. Incremental Annual Operating Expenses for the 44 beds are estimated as follows:

Personal Services and Fringe Benefits $ 7,800 Contractual Services 4,500 Supplies and Equipment 4,000 Utilities 2,880 Indirect Costs 720 Total Operating Expenses $19,900

Student dormitory fees cover all operating expenditures and debt service and contribute to the reserve for renovation and repair of the facilities.

Project Costs, cont.

Revenues generated from this dormitory will be as follows:

44 Beds x $1260 x .98 (regular session) $54,331 44 Beds x $450 x .70 (summer session) 13,860 $68,191 Revenues Generated from 44 Beds $68,191 Annual Operating Expenditures for 44 Beds 19,900 Net Available for Debt Service $48,291

The table above, together with the worksheets that follow, indicate that net revenue generated from this new housing facility will not be sufficient to cover the annual principal and interest payment of $62,016, plus 10 percent debt coverage. However, if one considers net revenue generated from the Clinch Valley College dormitory "system", there is sufficient revenue to service all debt without increasing the dorm fees now payed by students at the College.

It should be noted also that the data provided in the accompanying cash flow worksheets reflects net revenue generated by the dormitory system under "Other" revenue. That information is also provided in Attachment A. The bond indenture does not require a reserve fund payment; although as a matter of practice, Clinch Valley College budgets a minimum contribution of 5 percent of the revenue generated by dorm rents for major maintenance, renovation and repair of the facilities. This percentage is identified as "Reserve Contribution" on Attachment A.

Project Costs, cont.

Attachments B and C reflect individual debt payment schedules for existing facilities within the system. The first outstanding bond issue represented in the attachments is the 1973 Series B issue for $500,000 for the CVC Women's Dorm. At the present time, principal payments are made by HUD and interest payments are made from a sinking fund held at the state for this purpose. The balance in this fund as of August 31, 1987, was $31,000. At this time, Clinch Valley does not contribute to the sinking fund; but when the fund is depleted, Clinch Valley College will be responsible for interest payments on this issue. The average amount required over the next fifteen years for this obligation, therefore, would be approximately $17,700 annually.

The second outstanding bond issue represented in the attachments is the 1984 Series B issue for $515,000 for Phase I of the Student Housing for 96 construction. The average amount required for principal and interest payments over the next fifteen years for this obligation would be $56,250 annually. To conclude, the total requirement for existing debt service for the next fifteen years for completed dormitory facilities at Clinch Valley College would be approximately $73,950. This figure is identified in Attachment A as "Existing Debt Service."

The University of Virginia at Clinch Valley College hopes to demonstrate with this revised feasibility study that revenue from the dormitory system can support new bond issues without any significant impact on the fees charged to students.

Interest Rate 8.50% Year Principal Balance Interest Payment Principal Payment P&I Payment 110% Coverage 515,000.00 1988-89 496,758.46 43,775.00 18,241.54 62,016.54 68,218.19 1989-90 476,966.39 42,224.47 19,792.07 62,016.54 68,218.19 1990-91 455,492.00 40,542.14 21,474.39 62,016.54 68,218.19 1991-92 432,192.28 38,716.82 23,299.72 62,016.54 68,218.19 1992-93 406,912.09 36,736.34 25,280.19 62,016.54 68,218.19 1993-94 379,483.08 34,587.53 27,429.01 62,016.54 68,218.19 1994-95 349,722.60 32,256.06 29,760.48 62,016.54 68,218.19 1995-96 317,432.49 29,726.42 32,290.12 62,016.54 68,218.19 1996-97 282,397.71 26,981.76 35,034.78 62,016.54 68,218.19 1997-98 244,384.98 24,003.81 38,012.73 62,016.54 68,218.19 1998-99 203,141.16 20,772.72 41,243.81 62,016.54 68,218.19 1999-00 158,391.62 17,267.00 44,749.54 62,016.54 68,218.19 2000-01 109,838.37 13,463.29 48,553.25 62,016.54 68,218.19 2001-02 57,158.10 9,336.26 52,680.28 62,016.54 68,218.19 2002-03 0.00 4,858.44 57,158.10 62,016.54 68,218.19

ATTACHMENT A REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE DORMITORY "SYSTEM" EXCLUDING THE 44 NEW BEDS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ANNUAL REVENUES:

REGULAR SESSION

84 BEDS x $1260 x .98 OCCUPANCY

$103,723

300 BEDS x $1110 x .98 OCCUPANCY

$326,340

SUMMER SESSION

84 BEDS x $450 x .70 OCCUPANCY

$26,460

300 BEDS x $400 x .70 OCCUPANCY

$84,000

$540,523

MINUS ANNUAL OPERATING EXPENDITURES

PERSONAL SERVICES

$115,264

CONTRACTUAL SERVICES

$36,500

SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT

$49,200

OTHER COSTS

$4,500

$205,464

RESERVE CONTRIBUTION

$27,026

$232,490

AVAILABLE FOR DEBT SERVICE

$308,033

EXISTING DEBT SERVICE

$73,950

AVAILABLE FOR NEW DEBT SERVICE

$234,083

PROPOSED FOR OTHER NEW DEBT

$47,686

NET SYSTEM CONTRIBUTION

$186,397

ANNUAL REVENUES: REGULAR SESSION 84 BEDS x $1260 x .98 OCCUPANCY $103,723 300 BEDS x $1110 x .98 OCCUPANCY $326,340 SUMMER SESSION 84 BEDS x $450 x .70 OCCUPANCY $26,460 300 BEDS x $400 x .70 OCCUPANCY $84,000 $540,523 MINUS ANNUAL OPERATING EXPENDITURES PERSONAL SERVICES $115,264 CONTRACTUAL SERVICES $36,500 SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT $49,200 OTHER COSTS $4,500 $205,464 RESERVE CONTRIBUTION $27,026 $232,490 AVAILABLE FOR DEBT SERVICE $308,033 EXISTING DEBT SERVICE $73,950 AVAILABLE FOR NEW DEBT SERVICE $234,083 PROPOSED FOR OTHER NEW DEBT $47,686 NET SYSTEM CONTRIBUTION $186,397

INCLUDING THE 44 NEW BEDS, CVC WILL HAVE 128 BEDS IN THE SYSTEM AT THE CURRENT RATE OF $1260 FOR THE REGULAR SESSION. THE REMAINING 300 BEDS ARE AT THE CURRENT RATE OF $1110.

EXISTING DEBT SHOWN ABOVE INCLUDES ONLY AMOUNTS IDENTIFIED IN ATTACHMENTS B AND C. IT EXCLUDES ANY DEBT PROPOSED FOR THE 1988 BOND ISSUANCE.

RESERVE CONTRIBUTION IS APPROXIMATELY 5% OF REVENUE. THIS IS NOT A REQUIREMENT OF THE BOND INDENTURES AND IS NOT REFLECTED IN THE WORKSHEET ENTITLED "REVENUE BOND PARAMETERS."

OTHER NEW DEBT IS IDENTIFIED IN REVISED FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR P.C. 13843.

ATTACHMENT B DORMITORY REVENUE BONDS SERISS $300,000DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

PERIOD ENDING

PRINCIPAL

ANNUAL RATE

INTEREST

TOTAL

1 05/01/74

15,040.00

15,040.00

2 11/01/74

15,040.00

15,040.00

3 05/01/75

5,000.00

7.500

15,040.00

20.040.00

4 11/01/75

14,852.50

14,852.50

5 05/01/76

5,000.00

7.500

14,852.50

19,852.50

6 11/01/76

14,665.00

14,665.00

7 05/01/77

5,000.00

7.500

14,665.00

19,665.00

8 11/01/77

14,477.50

14,477.50

9 05/01/78

5,000.00

7.500

14,477.50

19,477.50

10 11/01/78

14,290.00

14,290.00

11 05/01/79

5,000.00

7.500

14,290.00

19,290.00

12 11/01/79

14,102.50

14,102.50

13 05/01/80

5,000.00

7.500

14,102.50

19,102.50

14 11/01/80

13,915.00

13,915.00

15 05/01/81

5,000.00

7.500

13,915.00

18,915.00

16 11/01/81

13,727.50

17,727.50

17 05/01/82

5,000.00

7.500

13,727.50

18,727.50

18 11/01/82

13,540.00

17,540.00

19 05/01/83

5,000.00

7.500

13,540.00

13,540.00

20 11/01/83

13,352.50

17,

21 05/01/84

5,000.00

7.500

13,52.50

18.752.50

22 11/01/84

13,165.00

13.165.00

23 05/01/85

5,000.00

7.500

13,165.00

18.165.00

24 11/01/85

12,977.50

12.977.50

25 05/01/86

5,000.00

7.500

12.977.50

17.977.50

26 11/01/86

12.790.00

12.790.00

27 05/01/87

10,000.00

7.500

12,790.00

22.790.00

28 11/01/87

12,415.00

12.415.00

29 05/01/88

10,000.00

7.500

12,415.00

22.415.00

30 11/01/88

12,040.00

12.040.00

31 05/01/89

10,000.00

5.875

12.040.00

22.040.00

32 11/01/89

11,746.25

11.746.25

33 05/01/90

10,000.00

5.500

11,746.25

21,746.25

34 11/01/90

11,471.25

11.471.25

35 05/01/91

10,000.00

5.500

11.471.25

21.471.25

36 11/01/91

11.196.25

11.196.25

37 05/01/92

10,000.00

5.500

11.196.25

21.196.25

38 11/01/92

10.921.25

10..25

39 05/01/93

10,000.00

5.500

10.921.25

20..25

40 11/01/93

10.646.25

10.646.25

Interest start date: 11/01/73

First interest payment: 05/01/74

DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE PERIOD ENDING PRINCIPAL ANNUAL RATE INTEREST TOTAL 1 05/01/74 15,040.00 15,040.00 2 11/01/74 15,040.00 15,040.00 3 05/01/75 5,000.00 7.500 15,040.00 20.040.00 4 11/01/75 14,852.50 14,852.50 5 05/01/76 5,000.00 7.500 14,852.50 19,852.50 6 11/01/76 14,665.00 14,665.00 7 05/01/77 5,000.00 7.500 14,665.00 19,665.00 8 11/01/77 14,477.50 14,477.50 9 05/01/78 5,000.00 7.500 14,477.50 19,477.50 10 11/01/78 14,290.00 14,290.00 11 05/01/79 5,000.00 7.500 14,290.00 19,290.00 12 11/01/79 14,102.50 14,102.50 13 05/01/80 5,000.00 7.500 14,102.50 19,102.50 14 11/01/80 13,915.00 13,915.00 15 05/01/81 5,000.00 7.500 13,915.00 18,915.00 16 11/01/81 13,727.50 17,727.50 17 05/01/82 5,000.00 7.500 13,727.50 18,727.50 18 11/01/82 13,540.00 17,540.00 19 05/01/83 5,000.00 7.500 13,540.00 13,540.00 20 11/01/83 13,352.50 17, 21 05/01/84 5,000.00 7.500 13,52.50 18.752.50 22 11/01/84 13,165.00 13.165.00 23 05/01/85 5,000.00 7.500 13,165.00 18.165.00 24 11/01/85 12,977.50 12.977.50 25 05/01/86 5,000.00 7.500 12.977.50 17.977.50 26 11/01/86 12.790.00 12.790.00 27 05/01/87 10,000.00 7.500 12,790.00 22.790.00 28 11/01/87 12,415.00 12.415.00 29 05/01/88 10,000.00 7.500 12,415.00 22.415.00 30 11/01/88 12,040.00 12.040.00 31 05/01/89 10,000.00 5.875 12.040.00 22.040.00 32 11/01/89 11,746.25 11.746.25 33 05/01/90 10,000.00 5.500 11,746.25 21,746.25 34 11/01/90 11,471.25 11.471.25 35 05/01/91 10,000.00 5.500 11.471.25 21.471.25 36 11/01/91 11.196.25 11.196.25 37 05/01/92 10,000.00 5.500 11.196.25 21.196.25 38 11/01/92 10.921.25 10..25 39 05/01/93 10,000.00 5.500 10.921.25 20..25 40 11/01/93 10.646.25 10.646.25

REVENUE DS SERIES 500,000DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE
----------------------------------------------

PERIOD ENDING

PRINCIPAL

ANNUAL RATE

INTEREST

TOTAL

41 05/01/94

10,000.00

5.500

10,646.25

20,646.25

42 11/01/94

10,371.25

10,371.25

43 05/01/95

10,000.00

5.500

10,371.25

20,371.25

44 11/01/95

10,096.25

10,096.25

45 05/01/96

10,000.00

5.600

10,096.25

20,096.25

46 11/01/96

9,816.25

9,816.25

47 05/01/97

15,000.00

5.600

9,816.25

24,816.25

48 11/01/97

9,396.25

9,396.25

49 05/01/98

15,000.00

5.600

9,396.25

24,396.25

50 11/01/98

8,976.25

8,976.25

51 05/01/99

15,000.00

5.600

8,976.25

23,976.25

52 11/01/99

8,556.25

8,556.25

53 05/01/00

15,000.00

5.750

8,556.25

23,556.25

54 11/01/00

8,125.00

8,125.00

55 05/01/01

20,000.00

5.750

8,125.00

28,125.00

56 11/01/01

7,550.00

7,550.00

57 05/01/02

20,000.00

5.750

7,550.00

27,550.00

58 11/01/02

6,975.00

6,975.00

59 05/01/03

20,000.00

5.750

6,975.00

26,975.00

60 11/01/03

6,400.00

6,400.00

61 05/01/04

25,000.00

5.750

6,400.00

31,400.00

62 11/01/04

5,681.25

5,681.25

63 05/01/05

25,000.00

5.750

5,681.25

30,681.25

64 11/01/05

4,962.50

4,962.50

65 05/01/06

25,000.00

5.750

4,962.50

29,962.50

66 11/01/06

4,243.75

4,243.75

67 05/01/07

25,000.00

5.750

4,243.75

29,243.75

68 11/01/07

3,525.00

3,525.00

69 05/01/08

30,000.00

5.875

3,525.00

33,525.00

70 11/01/08

2,643.75

2,643.75

71 05/01/09

30,000.00

5.875

2,643.75

32,643.75

72 11/01/09

1,762.50

1,762.50

73 05/01/10

30,000.00

5.875

1,762.50

31,762.50

74 11/01/10

881.25

881.25

75 05/01/11

30,000.00

5.875

881.25

30,881.25

TOTAL

500,000.00

757,627.50

1,257,27.50

Interest start date: 11/01/73

First interest payment: 05/01/74

DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE PERIOD ENDING PRINCIPAL ANNUAL RATE INTEREST TOTAL 41 05/01/94 10,000.00 5.500 10,646.25 20,646.25 42 11/01/94 10,371.25 10,371.25 43 05/01/95 10,000.00 5.500 10,371.25 20,371.25 44 11/01/95 10,096.25 10,096.25 45 05/01/96 10,000.00 5.600 10,096.25 20,096.25 46 11/01/96 9,816.25 9,816.25 47 05/01/97 15,000.00 5.600 9,816.25 24,816.25 48 11/01/97 9,396.25 9,396.25 49 05/01/98 15,000.00 5.600 9,396.25 24,396.25 50 11/01/98 8,976.25 8,976.25 51 05/01/99 15,000.00 5.600 8,976.25 23,976.25 52 11/01/99 8,556.25 8,556.25 53 05/01/00 15,000.00 5.750 8,556.25 23,556.25 54 11/01/00 8,125.00 8,125.00 55 05/01/01 20,000.00 5.750 8,125.00 28,125.00 56 11/01/01 7,550.00 7,550.00 57 05/01/02 20,000.00 5.750 7,550.00 27,550.00 58 11/01/02 6,975.00 6,975.00 59 05/01/03 20,000.00 5.750 6,975.00 26,975.00 60 11/01/03 6,400.00 6,400.00 61 05/01/04 25,000.00 5.750 6,400.00 31,400.00 62 11/01/04 5,681.25 5,681.25 63 05/01/05 25,000.00 5.750 5,681.25 30,681.25 64 11/01/05 4,962.50 4,962.50 65 05/01/06 25,000.00 5.750 4,962.50 29,962.50 66 11/01/06 4,243.75 4,243.75 67 05/01/07 25,000.00 5.750 4,243.75 29,243.75 68 11/01/07 3,525.00 3,525.00 69 05/01/08 30,000.00 5.875 3,525.00 33,525.00 70 11/01/08 2,643.75 2,643.75 71 05/01/09 30,000.00 5.875 2,643.75 32,643.75 72 11/01/09 1,762.50 1,762.50 73 05/01/10 30,000.00 5.875 1,762.50 31,762.50 74 11/01/10 881.25 881.25 75 05/01/11 30,000.00 5.875 881.25 30,881.25 TOTAL 500,000.00 757,627.50 1,257,27.50

ATTACHMENT C UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE HOUSING SERIES 1984 DDEBT SERVICE SCHEDULEFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE I 10-May-88REVENUE BOND PARAMETERSFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE II 10-May-88RESERVE FUND TRANSACTIONSFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE III 10-May-88REPAYMENT SCHEDULE: INTEREST= 0.0850 REINVESTMENT RATE= 0.0000FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE IV 10-May-88NON RECURRING INITIAL OUTLAYS NOT FINANCED NITR BOND PROCEESINCREMENTAL ANNUAL OPERATING EXPENSESFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE V 10-May-88INCREASED INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS AND AND NON-RECURRING INITIAL OUTLAYSFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE VI 10-May-88CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROJECT COSTSFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE VII 10-May-88PRESENT VALUE OF PROJECT COSTSFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE VIII 10-May-88FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE IX 10-May-88S ONLY INCREMENTAL INCREASES RELATED TO THIS PROJECTFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE III 10-May-88FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE XVII 10-May-88FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE XVIII 10-May-88CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROJECT REVENUESFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE XIX 10-May-88FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS TABLE XX 10-May-88CONSOLIDATE STATEMENT OF PROJECT NET REVENUES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PERIOD ENDING

PRINCIPAL

ANNUAL RATE

INTEREST

TOTAL

1 06/01/85

10,000.00

12,250

52,192.29

62,192.29

2 06/01/86

10,000.00

12,250

46,952.50

56,952.50

3 06/01/87

10,000.00

12,250

45,727.50

55,727.50

4 06/01/88

10,000.00

12,250

44,502.50

54,502.50

5 06/01/89

15,000.00

12,250

43,277.50

58,277.50

6 06/01/90

15,000.00

12,250

41,440.00

56,440.00

7 06/01/91

20,000.00

12.250

39,602.50

59,602.50

8 06/01/92

20,000.00

8.000

37,152.50

57,152.50

9 06/01/93

20,000.00

8,250

35,552.50

55,552.50

10 06/01/94

25,000.00

8.500

33,902.50

58,902.50

11 06/01/95

25,000.00

8,600

31,777.50

56,777.50

12 06/01/96

25,000.00

8,800

29,627.50

54,627.50

13 06/01/97

25,000.00

9,000

27,427.50

52,427.50

14 06/01/98

30,000.00

9.100

25,177.50

55,177.50

15 06/01/99

30,000.00

9.200

22,447.50

52,447.50

16 06/01/00

40,000.00

9.250

19,687.50

59,687.50

17 06/01/01

40,000.00

9,250

15,987.50

55,987.50

18 06/01/02

45,000.00

9.250

12,287.50

57,287.50

19 06/01/03

50,000.00

9.250

8,125.00

58,125.00

20 06/01/04

50,000.00

7.000

3,500.00

53,500.00

TOTAL

515,000.00

616,347.29

1,131,347.29

TERMS OF INDENTURE

AMOUNT

PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF BO

515.000

INTEREST RATE ON BOND

0.0850

NUMBER OF YEARS OF REPYMENT

15

FIRST YEAR OF REPAYMENT

1989

RESERVE REQUIREMENT PERCENT

0.0000

RESERVE PAYMENT AMOUNT

0

ANNUAL PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST PAYMENT

62.017

TOTAL ANNUAL PAYMENT

62.017

YEAR

EST MAINT EXP

DEDUCTIONS

ADDITIONS

NET CHANGE

1989

0

0

0

0

1990

0

0

0

0

1991

0

0

0

0

1992

0

0

0

0

1993

0

0

0

0

1994

0

0

0

0

1995

0

0

0

0

1996

0

0

0

0

1997

0

0

0

0

1998

0

0

0

0

1999

0

0

0

0

2000

0

0

0

0

2001

0

0

0

0

2002

0

0

0

0

2003

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

YEAR

RESERVE FUND PAYMENT

INTEREST PAID

PRINCIPAL PAID

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE

PRINCIPAL BALANCE

RESERVE FUND BALANCE

1989

0

43.775

18.242

62.017

496.758

0

1990

0

42.224

19.792

62.017

176.966

0

1991

0

40.542

21.474

62.017

455.492

0

1992

0

38.717

23.300

62.017

432.192

0

1993

0

36,736

25,280

62,017

406.912

0

1994

0

34.588

27.429

62.017

379.483

0

1995

0

32,256

29,760

62.017

349.723

0

1996

0

29.726

32.290

62.017

317,432

0

1997

0

26.982

35.035

62.017

282.398

0

1998

0

24.004

38.013

62.017

244.385

0

1999

0

20.773

41.244

62.017

203.141

0

2000

0

17.207

44.750

62.017

158.392

0

2001

0

13.463

48.553

62.017

109,338

0

2002

0

9,336

52.680

62.017

57.158

0

2003

0

4,359

57.158

62,017

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

415.248

515.000

930.248

ITEM

1989

1990

PERSONAL SERVICES

0

0

A/E SERVICES

0

0

SITE DEVELOPMENT

0

0

INTERIM FINANCE CHARGE

0

0

EQUIPMENT

0

0

OTHER

0

0

TOTAL

0

0

1989

1990

1991

1992

PERSONAL SERVICES

7,800

7.800

7.800

7.800

CONTRACTUAL SERVICES

4,500

4,500

4,500

4.500

SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS

3.000

3.000

3.000

3.000

INDIRECT COSTS

720

720

720

720

UTILITIES

2.380

2.380

2.380

2.380

EQUIPMENT

1.000

1.000

1.000

1.000

TOTAL

19.900

19.900

19.900

19.900

YEARS 1-4

YEARS 5+

ASSUMED GROWTH RATE:

PERSONAL SERVICES

0.0000

0.0000

OTHER OBJECTS

0.0000

0.0000

YEAR

PERSONAL SERVICES

OTHER OBJECTS

TOTAL

1989

7,800

12.100

19.900

1990

7,800

12,100

19.900

1991

7,800

12,100

19.900

1992

7,800

12.100

19.900

1993

7,800

12.100

19.900

1994

7,800

12,100

19.900

1995

7,800

12,100

19.900

1996

7,800

12,100

19.900

1997

7,800

12,100

19.900

1998

7,800

12.100

19,900

1999

7,800

12,100

19,900

2000

7,800

12,100

19,900

2001

7,800

12,100

19.900

2002

7,800

12,100

19.900

2003

7,800

12,100

19.900

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

117.000

181.500

298,500

YEAR

PERSONAL SERVICES

OTHER OBJECTS

RESERVE FUND PAYMENT

INTEREST PAID

PRINCIPAL PAID

TOTAL PROJECT COSTS

RESERVE FUND BALANCE

1989

7,800

12.100

0

43.775

18.242

81.917

0

1990

7,800

12.100

0

42,224

19.792

81.917

0

1991

7,800

12.100

0

40.542

21.474

81.917

0

1992

7,800

12.100

0

38.717

23.300

81.917

0

1993

7,800

12.100

0

36.736

25.280

81.917

0

1994

7,800

12.100

0

34.588

27.428

81.917

0

1995

7,800

12,100

0

32.256

29,760

81.917

0

1996

7,800

12.100

0

29.726

32.290

81.917

0

1997

7,800

12.100

0

26.982

35.035

81.917

0

1998

7,800

12.100

0

24.004

38.013

81.917

0

1999

7,800

12.100

0

20.773

41.244

81.917

0

2000

7,800

12.100

0

17.267

44.750

81.917

0

2001

7,800

12.100

0

13.463

48.553

81.917

0

2002

7,800

12.100

0

9.336

52.680

81,917

0

2003

7,800

12.100

0

4.858

57.158

81.917

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

117.000

181.500

0

415.248

515.000

1,223.748

COST COMPONENTS

AMOUNT

PERSONAL SERVICES

64.773

OTHER OBJECTS

100.481

RESERVE FUND PAYMENTS

0

INTEREST PAID

262.813

PRINCIPAL PAID

252.187

PRESENT VALUE OF PROJECT COSTS

680.254

DISCOUNT RATE

0.0850

USER FEE - DORM

AMOUNT

REGULAR SESSION

1) BER OF BEDS

44

2) REGULAR SESSION FEE (AVERAGE IF NECESSARY)

1.260

3) OCCUPANCY RATE

0.98

SUMMER SESSION

1) NUMBER OF BEDS

44

2) SUMMER SESSION FEE

450

(AVERAGE IF NECESSARY)

3) OCCUPANCY RATE

0.70

TOTAL ANNUAL REVENUE FROM THIS SOURCE

68.191

DORM USER PARANETERS

AMOUNT

1) RATE AT WHICH FEES WILL GROW IN YEARS 1-4

0.0000

2) RATE AT WHICH FEES WILL GROW IN YEARS 5

0.0000

3) CURRENT REGULAR SESSION RATE

1.260

4) CURRENT SUMMER SESSION RATE

450

5) TOTAL NO. OF BEDS BEFORE PROJECT

84

6) TOTAL NUMBER OF BEDS AFTER PROJECT

123

7) WILL OTHER BOR "SYSTEM" USERS CONTRIBUTE REVENUE TO THIS PROJECT?

YES

(NO=0 YES=1)

DORM "SYSTEM" CONTRIBUTION

AMOUNT

REGULAR SESSION

1) NUMBER OF BEDS

384

2) REGULAR SESSION FEE INCREASE (AVERAGE IF NECESSARY)

0

3) OCCUPANCY RATE

0.98

SUMMER SESSION

1) NUMBER OF BEDS

384

2) SUMMER SESSION FEE INCREASE (AVERAGE IF NECESSARY)

0

3) OCCUPANCY RATE

0.70

TOTAL ANNUAL REVENUE FROM THIS SOURCE

0

DORM SYSTEM PARANETERS

AMOUNT

1) RATE AT WHICH FEES WILL GROW IN YEARS 1-4

0.0000

2) RATE AT WHICH FEES WILL GROW IN YEARS

0.0000

3) CURRENT REGULAR SESSION RATE

1.185

4) CURRENT SUMMER SESSION RATE

425

EROLLMENT PROJECTIONS - FTES

REGULAR SESSION

SUMMER SESSION

YEAR

FULL

PART

FULL

PART

TOTAL DOLLAR CONTRIBUTION

(RATE)

0.00

0.00

0.00

0.00

1989

1.015

399

80

425

30

1990

1.015

399

80

425

30

1991

1.015

399

80

425

30

1992

1.015

399

80

425

30

1993

1.015

399

80

425

30

1994

1.015

399

80

425

30

1995

1.015

399

80

425

30

1996

1.015

399

80

425

30

1997

1.015

399

80

425

30

1998

1.015

399

80

425

30

OTHER SOURCES

PLEASE SPECIFY YEAR IN WHICH FUNDS BECOME AVAILABLE A AMOUNT OF FUNDS. IF REVENE STREA ENS DURING LIFE OF THE PROJECT. ENTER A NEGATIVE NUMBER IN THE APPROPRIATE YEAR. KEY NUMBER TO DESCRIPTION IN PROJECT WRITE-.

YEAR

AMOUNT

1-FIRST FUNDS AVAILABLE

19

186.397

2-SECOND FUNDS AVAILABLE

0

0

3-THIRD FUNDS AVAILABLE

0

0

4-FOURTH FUNDS AVAILABLE

0

0

YEAR

USER FEES

SEERAL STUDENT FEES

RECOVERIES

REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS

INSTITU-TIONAL RESERVES

RETIREMENT OF EXISTING DEBT

OTHER

TOTAL

1989

68.191

0

0

0

0

0

186.397

254.588

1990

68.191

0

0

0

0

0

186.397

254.588

1991

68.191

0

0

0

0

0

186.397

254.588

1992

68.191

0

0

0

0

0

186.397

254.588

1993

68.191

0

0

0

0

0

186.397

254.588

1994

68.191

0

0

0

0

0

186.397

254.588

1995

68.191

0

0

0

0

0

186.397

254.588

1996

68.191

0

0

0

0

0

186.397

254.588

1997

68.191

0

0

0

0

0

186.397

254.588

1998

68.191

0

0

0

0

0

186.397

254.588

1999

68.191

0

0

0

0

0

186.397

254.588

2000

68.191

0

0

0

0

0

186.397

254.588

2001

68.191

0

0

0

0

0

186.397

254.588

2002

68.191

0

0

0

0

0

186.397

254.588

2003

68.191

0

0

0

0

0

186.397

254.588

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

1.022.868

0

0

0

0

0

2.795.955

.818.323

REVENUE SOURCES

AMOUNT

1) USER FEES

566.276

2) GENERAL STUDENT FEES

0

3) RECOVERIES

0

4) REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS

0

5) INSTITUTIONAL RESERVES

0

6) RETIREMENT OF EXISTING DEBT

0

7) OTHER

1.547.885

PRESENT VALUE OF PROJECT REVENUE CASH FLOWS

2.114.161

DISCOUNT RATE

0.0850

YEAR

++Excludes Reserve Fund Pents TOTAL PROJECT COSTS

TOTAL PROJECT REVENUE

NET PROJECT REVENUE

COVERAGE PERCENT

1989

81.917

254.588

172,672

310.791

1990

81.917

254.588

172.672

310.791

1991

81.917

254.588

172.672

310.791

1992

81.917

254.588

172.672

310.791

1993

81.917

254.588

172.672

310.791

1994

81.917

254.588

172.672

310.791

1995

81.917

254.588

172.672

310.791

1996

81.917

254.588

172.672

310.791

1997

81.917

254.588

172.672

310.791

1998

81.917

254.588

172.672

310.791

1999

81.917

254.588

172.672

310.791

2000

81.917

254.588

172.672

310.791

2001

81.917

254.588

172.672

310.791

2002

81.917

254.588

172.672

310.791

2003

81.917

254.588

172.672

310.791

0

0

0

(0)

0.001

0

0

0

(0)

0.001

0

0

0

(0)

0.001

0

0

0

(0)

0.001

0

0

0

(0)

0.001

0

0

0

(0)

0.001

0

0

0

(0)

0.001

0

0

0

(0)

0.001

0

0

0

(0)

0.001

0

0

0

(0)

0.001

0

0

0

(0)

0.001

0

0

0

(0)

0.001

0

0

0

(0)

0.001

0

0

0

(0)

0.001

0

0

0

(0)

0.001

1.228.748

3.318.823

2.590.075

erest start date: 05/01/84

First interest payment: 12/01/84

DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE PERIOD ENDING PRINCIPAL ANNUAL RATE INTEREST TOTAL 1 06/01/85 10,000.00 12,250 52,192.29 62,192.29 2 06/01/86 10,000.00 12,250 46,952.50 56,952.50 3 06/01/87 10,000.00 12,250 45,727.50 55,727.50 4 06/01/88 10,000.00 12,250 44,502.50 54,502.50 5 06/01/89 15,000.00 12,250 43,277.50 58,277.50 6 06/01/90 15,000.00 12,250 41,440.00 56,440.00 7 06/01/91 20,000.00 12.250 39,602.50 59,602.50 8 06/01/92 20,000.00 8.000 37,152.50 57,152.50 9 06/01/93 20,000.00 8,250 35,552.50 55,552.50 10 06/01/94 25,000.00 8.500 33,902.50 58,902.50 11 06/01/95 25,000.00 8,600 31,777.50 56,777.50 12 06/01/96 25,000.00 8,800 29,627.50 54,627.50 13 06/01/97 25,000.00 9,000 27,427.50 52,427.50 14 06/01/98 30,000.00 9.100 25,177.50 55,177.50 15 06/01/99 30,000.00 9.200 22,447.50 52,447.50 16 06/01/00 40,000.00 9.250 19,687.50 59,687.50 17 06/01/01 40,000.00 9,250 15,987.50 55,987.50 18 06/01/02 45,000.00 9.250 12,287.50 57,287.50 19 06/01/03 50,000.00 9.250 8,125.00 58,125.00 20 06/01/04 50,000.00 7.000 3,500.00 53,500.00 TOTAL 515,000.00 616,347.29 1,131,347.29

AVERAGE ANNUAL PAYMENT OVER 15-YEAR PERIOD FROM 06/01/90 TO 06/01/04 IS S. 56,246.33

REVENUE BOND PARAMETERS TERMS OF INDENTURE AMOUNT PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF BO 515.000 INTEREST RATE ON BOND 0.0850 NUMBER OF YEARS OF REPYMENT 15 FIRST YEAR OF REPAYMENT 1989 RESERVE REQUIREMENT PERCENT 0.0000 RESERVE PAYMENT AMOUNT 0 ANNUAL PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST PAYMENT 62.017 TOTAL ANNUAL PAYMENT 62.017

RESERVE FUND TRANSACTIONS YEAR EST MAINT EXP DEDUCTIONS ADDITIONS NET CHANGE 1989 0 0 0 0 1990 0 0 0 0 1991 0 0 0 0 1992 0 0 0 0 1993 0 0 0 0 1994 0 0 0 0 1995 0 0 0 0 1996 0 0 0 0 1997 0 0 0 0 1998 0 0 0 0 1999 0 0 0 0 2000 0 0 0 0 2001 0 0 0 0 2002 0 0 0 0 2003 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

REPAYMENT SCHEDULE: INTEREST= 0.0850 REINVESTMENT RATE= 0.0000 YEAR RESERVE FUND PAYMENT INTEREST PAID PRINCIPAL PAID TOTAL DEBT SERVICE PRINCIPAL BALANCE RESERVE FUND BALANCE 1989 0 43.775 18.242 62.017 496.758 0 1990 0 42.224 19.792 62.017 176.966 0 1991 0 40.542 21.474 62.017 455.492 0 1992 0 38.717 23.300 62.017 432.192 0 1993 0 36,736 25,280 62,017 406.912 0 1994 0 34.588 27.429 62.017 379.483 0 1995 0 32,256 29,760 62.017 349.723 0 1996 0 29.726 32.290 62.017 317,432 0 1997 0 26.982 35.035 62.017 282.398 0 1998 0 24.004 38.013 62.017 244.385 0 1999 0 20.773 41.244 62.017 203.141 0 2000 0 17.207 44.750 62.017 158.392 0 2001 0 13.463 48.553 62.017 109,338 0 2002 0 9,336 52.680 62.017 57.158 0 2003 0 4,359 57.158 62,017 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 415.248 515.000 930.248

NON RECURRING INITIAL OUTLAYS NOT FINANCED NITR BOND PROCEES ITEM 1989 1990 PERSONAL SERVICES 0 0 A/E SERVICES 0 0 SITE DEVELOPMENT 0 0 INTERIM FINANCE CHARGE 0 0 EQUIPMENT 0 0 OTHER 0 0 TOTAL 0 0

INCREMENTAL ANNUAL OPERATING EXPENSES 1989 1990 1991 1992 PERSONAL SERVICES 7,800 7.800 7.800 7.800 CONTRACTUAL SERVICES 4,500 4,500 4,500 4.500 SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS 3.000 3.000 3.000 3.000 INDIRECT COSTS 720 720 720 720 UTILITIES 2.380 2.380 2.380 2.380 EQUIPMENT 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 TOTAL 19.900 19.900 19.900 19.900

INCREASED INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS AND AND NON-RECURRING INITIAL OUTLAYS YEARS 1-4 YEARS 5+ ASSUMED GROWTH RATE: PERSONAL SERVICES 0.0000 0.0000 OTHER OBJECTS 0.0000 0.0000 YEAR PERSONAL SERVICES OTHER OBJECTS TOTAL 1989 7,800 12.100 19.900 1990 7,800 12,100 19.900 1991 7,800 12,100 19.900 1992 7,800 12.100 19.900 1993 7,800 12.100 19.900 1994 7,800 12,100 19.900 1995 7,800 12,100 19.900 1996 7,800 12,100 19.900 1997 7,800 12,100 19.900 1998 7,800 12.100 19,900 1999 7,800 12,100 19,900 2000 7,800 12,100 19,900 2001 7,800 12,100 19.900 2002 7,800 12,100 19.900 2003 7,800 12,100 19.900 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 117.000 181.500 298,500

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROJECT COSTS YEAR PERSONAL SERVICES OTHER OBJECTS RESERVE FUND PAYMENT INTEREST PAID PRINCIPAL PAID TOTAL PROJECT COSTS RESERVE FUND BALANCE 1989 7,800 12.100 0 43.775 18.242 81.917 0 1990 7,800 12.100 0 42,224 19.792 81.917 0 1991 7,800 12.100 0 40.542 21.474 81.917 0 1992 7,800 12.100 0 38.717 23.300 81.917 0 1993 7,800 12.100 0 36.736 25.280 81.917 0 1994 7,800 12.100 0 34.588 27.428 81.917 0 1995 7,800 12,100 0 32.256 29,760 81.917 0 1996 7,800 12.100 0 29.726 32.290 81.917 0 1997 7,800 12.100 0 26.982 35.035 81.917 0 1998 7,800 12.100 0 24.004 38.013 81.917 0 1999 7,800 12.100 0 20.773 41.244 81.917 0 2000 7,800 12.100 0 17.267 44.750 81.917 0 2001 7,800 12.100 0 13.463 48.553 81.917 0 2002 7,800 12.100 0 9.336 52.680 81,917 0 2003 7,800 12.100 0 4.858 57.158 81.917 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 117.000 181.500 0 415.248 515.000 1,223.748

PRESENT VALUE OF PROJECT COSTS COST COMPONENTS AMOUNT PERSONAL SERVICES 64.773 OTHER OBJECTS 100.481 RESERVE FUND PAYMENTS 0 INTEREST PAID 262.813 PRINCIPAL PAID 252.187 PRESENT VALUE OF PROJECT COSTS 680.254 DISCOUNT RATE 0.0850

USER FEE - DORM AMOUNT REGULAR SESSION 1) BER OF BEDS 44 2) REGULAR SESSION FEE (AVERAGE IF NECESSARY) 1.260 3) OCCUPANCY RATE 0.98 SUMMER SESSION 1) NUMBER OF BEDS 44 2) SUMMER SESSION FEE 450 (AVERAGE IF NECESSARY) 3) OCCUPANCY RATE 0.70 TOTAL ANNUAL REVENUE FROM THIS SOURCE 68.191 DORM USER PARANETERS AMOUNT 1) RATE AT WHICH FEES WILL GROW IN YEARS 1-4 0.0000 2) RATE AT WHICH FEES WILL GROW IN YEARS 5 0.0000 3) CURRENT REGULAR SESSION RATE 1.260 4) CURRENT SUMMER SESSION RATE 450 5) TOTAL NO. OF BEDS BEFORE PROJECT 84 6) TOTAL NUMBER OF BEDS AFTER PROJECT 123 7) WILL OTHER BOR "SYSTEM" USERS CONTRIBUTE REVENUE TO THIS PROJECT? YES (NO=0 YES=1)

S ONLY INCREMENTAL INCREASES RELATED TO THIS PROJECT DORM "SYSTEM" CONTRIBUTION AMOUNT REGULAR SESSION 1) NUMBER OF BEDS 384 2) REGULAR SESSION FEE INCREASE (AVERAGE IF NECESSARY) 0 3) OCCUPANCY RATE 0.98 SUMMER SESSION 1) NUMBER OF BEDS 384 2) SUMMER SESSION FEE INCREASE (AVERAGE IF NECESSARY) 0 3) OCCUPANCY RATE 0.70 TOTAL ANNUAL REVENUE FROM THIS SOURCE 0 DORM SYSTEM PARANETERS AMOUNT 1) RATE AT WHICH FEES WILL GROW IN YEARS 1-4 0.0000 2) RATE AT WHICH FEES WILL GROW IN YEARS 0.0000 3) CURRENT REGULAR SESSION RATE 1.185 4) CURRENT SUMMER SESSION RATE 425

EROLLMENT PROJECTIONS - FTES REGULAR SESSION SUMMER SESSION YEAR FULL PART FULL PART TOTAL DOLLAR CONTRIBUTION (RATE) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1989 1.015 399 80 425 30 1990 1.015 399 80 425 30 1991 1.015 399 80 425 30 1992 1.015 399 80 425 30 1993 1.015 399 80 425 30 1994 1.015 399 80 425 30 1995 1.015 399 80 425 30 1996 1.015 399 80 425 30 1997 1.015 399 80 425 30 1998 1.015 399 80 425 30

OTHER SOURCES PLEASE SPECIFY YEAR IN WHICH FUNDS BECOME AVAILABLE A AMOUNT OF FUNDS. IF REVENE STREA ENS DURING LIFE OF THE PROJECT. ENTER A NEGATIVE NUMBER IN THE APPROPRIATE YEAR. KEY NUMBER TO DESCRIPTION IN PROJECT WRITE-. YEAR AMOUNT 1-FIRST FUNDS AVAILABLE 19 186.397 2-SECOND FUNDS AVAILABLE 0 0 3-THIRD FUNDS AVAILABLE 0 0 4-FOURTH FUNDS AVAILABLE 0 0

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROJECT REVENUES YEAR USER FEES SEERAL STUDENT FEES RECOVERIES REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS INSTITU-TIONAL RESERVES RETIREMENT OF EXISTING DEBT OTHER TOTAL 1989 68.191 0 0 0 0 0 186.397 254.588 1990 68.191 0 0 0 0 0 186.397 254.588 1991 68.191 0 0 0 0 0 186.397 254.588 1992 68.191 0 0 0 0 0 186.397 254.588 1993 68.191 0 0 0 0 0 186.397 254.588 1994 68.191 0 0 0 0 0 186.397 254.588 1995 68.191 0 0 0 0 0 186.397 254.588 1996 68.191 0 0 0 0 0 186.397 254.588 1997 68.191 0 0 0 0 0 186.397 254.588 1998 68.191 0 0 0 0 0 186.397 254.588 1999 68.191 0 0 0 0 0 186.397 254.588 2000 68.191 0 0 0 0 0 186.397 254.588 2001 68.191 0 0 0 0 0 186.397 254.588 2002 68.191 0 0 0 0 0 186.397 254.588 2003 68.191 0 0 0 0 0 186.397 254.588 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.022.868 0 0 0 0 0 2.795.955 .818.323

REVENUE SOURCES AMOUNT 1) USER FEES 566.276 2) GENERAL STUDENT FEES 0 3) RECOVERIES 0 4) REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS 0 5) INSTITUTIONAL RESERVES 0 6) RETIREMENT OF EXISTING DEBT 0 7) OTHER 1.547.885 PRESENT VALUE OF PROJECT REVENUE CASH FLOWS 2.114.161 DISCOUNT RATE 0.0850

YEAR ++Excludes Reserve Fund Pents TOTAL PROJECT COSTS TOTAL PROJECT REVENUE NET PROJECT REVENUE COVERAGE PERCENT 1989 81.917 254.588 172,672 310.791 1990 81.917 254.588 172.672 310.791 1991 81.917 254.588 172.672 310.791 1992 81.917 254.588 172.672 310.791 1993 81.917 254.588 172.672 310.791 1994 81.917 254.588 172.672 310.791 1995 81.917 254.588 172.672 310.791 1996 81.917 254.588 172.672 310.791 1997 81.917 254.588 172.672 310.791 1998 81.917 254.588 172.672 310.791 1999 81.917 254.588 172.672 310.791 2000 81.917 254.588 172.672 310.791 2001 81.917 254.588 172.672 310.791 2002 81.917 254.588 172.672 310.791 2003 81.917 254.588 172.672 310.791 0 0 0 (0) 0.001 0 0 0 (0) 0.001 0 0 0 (0) 0.001 0 0 0 (0) 0.001 0 0 0 (0) 0.001 0 0 0 (0) 0.001 0 0 0 (0) 0.001 0 0 0 (0) 0.001 0 0 0 (0) 0.001 0 0 0 (0) 0.001 0 0 0 (0) 0.001 0 0 0 (0) 0.001 0 0 0 (0) 0.001 0 0 0 (0) 0.001 0 0 0 (0) 0.001 1.228.748 3.318.823 2.590.075

Excludes Reserve Fund Pents