Board of Visitors minutes (1991) October 4, 1991
================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 4, 1991

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA October 4, 1991
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 9:00 a.m., in Open Session, on Thursday, October 3, 1991, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Edward E. Elson, President John T. Casteen, III, Adam S. Arthur, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, S. Buford Scott, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Ernest H. Ern, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Raymond M. Haas, Don E. Detmer, Thomas H. Jackson, Robert D. Sweeney and Mrs. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 4:35 p.m., in Open Session, on Friday, October 4, 1991, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Edward E. Elson, President John T. Casteen, III, Adam S. Arthur, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, S. Buford Scott, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Ernest H. Ern, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Thomas H. Jackson, Robert D. Sweeney and Mrs. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of May 24, 1991, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

The Rector asked the President to give an overview of the matters to be considered at the October meeting of the Board of Visitors.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and considering reports and recommendations of the University Auditor related to recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(1) of The Code of Virginia.(b) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, separation or resignation of faculty members of the University of Virginia, and for the purpose of considering the evaluation of certain departments, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(1) of The Code of Virginia.(c) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing the University's possible investment of certain endowment funds in a particular Venture Capital Fund, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(6) of The Code of Virginia.(d) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing the University's acquisition, financing and use of an improved property at 914-918 Emmet Street, also known as the "Michie Buildings", as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(3) of The Code of Virginia.(e) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for consultation with the General Counsel pertaining to actual and probable litigation, or other specific legal matters requiring the provision of legal advice by Counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(7) of The Code of Virginia.

Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 4:45 p.m.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Timothy D. Averill as Assistant Professor of Drama, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Beth A. Bailey as Lecturer, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective June 1, 1991.Mr. Peter S. Baker as Visiting Associate Professor of English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1992.Mr. Robert J. Beck as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Terry Belanger as University Professor, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. David J. Boling as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1994.Dr. John M. Campbell as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective June 1, 1991.Dr. Alan C. Dalkin as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Russell H. Davis as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Medical Center, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Ms. Barbara J. Deily as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period April 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991.Dr. Larry G. Dennis as Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective January 1, 1991.Dr. Allen D. Everett as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. John Farrenkopf as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Susan T. Firkaly as Lecturer, General Medical Faculty, Department of Student Health, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Jorge A. Flores as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Patricia L. Foley as Instructor in Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. David A. Fryburg as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Federico Gonzalez-Fernandez as Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Martha W. Habash as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period April 16, 1991 through August 31, 1991.Mr. Daniel J. Haisenleder as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Susan G. Harris as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective March 1, 1991.Ms. Doris M. Haverstick as Instructor in Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Mayhugh H. Horne, III as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. John E. Humphries as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective May 1, 1991.Dr. Ismail H. Ihmeidan as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. John Z. Imbrie as Professor of Mathematics, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Michael B. Ishitani as Instructor in Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. James M. Jaeger as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Diane M. Juffras as Lecturer in Classics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Claire N. Kaplan as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period August 12, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Mr. Stephen A. Kimata as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1994.Ms. Suzette M. Kimball as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Carl R. Knospe as Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Marie-Agnes S. Krogstad as Instructor in French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Reneo Lukic as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Mary F. Marshall as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period July 1, 1991 through February 29, 1992.Dr. Alan H. Matsumoto as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 15, 1991.Ms. Yuko C. Nakahama as Instructor in Japanese, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Kathryn B. Nesbitt as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Mark D. Okusa as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Jayashree S. Parekh as Instructor in Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Thomas W. Payne, Jr. as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective May 1, 1991.Mr. Todd E. Peterson as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Barbara T. Post as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Timothy S. Prinz as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. James F. Reibel as Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Carl Roskott as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Hilary A. Sanfey as Assistant Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Mark M. Schimmenti as Associate Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Theresa Schlager as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Anne J. Schutte as Professor of History, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. James H. Scott, III as Lecturer, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective April 16, 1991.Mr. John R. Shepherd as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for four academic years, effective January 16, 1992.Mr. Kenneth E. Sinarski as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1994.Dr. Craig L. Slingluff as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. William J. Stauff as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1994.Ms. Linda A. Swank as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Robert D. Sweeney as Lecturer, General Faculty, for five years, effective August 1, 1991.Ms. Yoshiko Tahara as Instructor in Japanese, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Richard A. Tomasulo as Research Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective May 1, 1991.Mr. Raymond M. Tuenge as Lecturer in Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective May 13, 1991.Dr. Kenneth S. Tung as Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Peter D. Waldman as Professor of Architecture, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Patricia A. Wattenmaker as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Joan C. Williams as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1992.Dr. Michael T. Zagardo as Instructor in Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of Chairholder(s)Dr. Eugene J. Barrett as Madge M. Jones Professor of Diabetes and Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Thomas J. Braciale as Beirne B. Carter Professor of Immunology and Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Richard F. DeMong as Ramon W. Breeden, Sr., Research Professor of Commerce, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1991.Ms. Merrill Elam as Edmund Shureman Campbell Professor of Architecture, for the period September 1, 1991 through October 15, 1991.Ms. Marion R. Johnson as Madge M. Jones Professor of Nursing, for the period August 15, 1991 through December 31, 1991.Ms. Connie L. Juel as Thomas G. Jewell Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Arthur C. Kirsch as John C. Coleman Professor of English, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Herwig M. Langohr as Dale S. Coenen Visiting Professor of Free Enterprise, for one semester, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Gianfranco Poggi as William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Robert E. Spekman as Frank Talbott, Jr., Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Robert A. Strong as Compton Visiting Associate Professor of World Politics at the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. William J. Stuntz as E. James Kelly, Jr., Research Professor of Law, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Robert I. Webb as Ramon W. Breeden, Sr., Research Professor of Commerce, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1991.(b) Re-Election of Chairholder(s)Mr. Herbert Hausmaninger as John A. Ewald, Jr. Distinguished Visiting Professor of Law, for the period September 1, 1991 through October 31, 1991.(c) Leaves of Absence of Chairholder(s)Mr. Jeffrey O'Connell, Samuel H. McCoy, II, Professor of Law, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, to be visiting professor at New York Law School.(d) Change of Title of Chairholder(s)Mr. Edward W. Davis from Oliver Wight Professor of Business Administration to Oliver Wight Professor of Business Administration and Isidore Horween Research Professor in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Joseph E. Gibson from Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Chair in Professional Accounting to C. Coleman McGehee Eminent Scholars Research Professor of Banking and Commerce and Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Chair in Professional Accounting, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1991.Dr. R. Scott Jones from Stephen H. Watts Professor of Surgery to S. Hurt Watts Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1991.(e) Special Salary Action of Chairholder(s)SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS DELETED(f) Retirement of Chairholder(s)Mr. Joseph E. Gibson, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Professor of Professional Accounting, effective June 30, 1991. Mr. Gibson has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1955.(g) Re-appointment of Chairholder(s)Mr. William J. Kehoe as Associate Dean, School of Commerce, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Ms. Mary P. Abouzeid as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Janet H. Allaire as Assistant Professor in Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty and Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Ralph D. Alley as Visiting Professor of Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Sally A. Amero as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for the period July 1, 1991 through July 31, 1991.Mr. Simon P. Anderson as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Brian D. Andrews as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. John T. Ashley as Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1991.Dr. Christopher M. Asplin as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Arlene Aveno as Research Assistant Professor of Education, for the period July 1, 1991 through September 30, 1991.Ms. Lynn A. Baker as Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Yongde Bao as Research Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Jack W. Barber as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Yechezkel Barenholz as Visiting Professor of Biochemistry, part time, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Michael Bowermaster as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Robert J. Boyle as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Mark S. Braiman as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Robert S. Brown as Professor of Education, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Erich E. Brumbaugh as Visiting Associate Professor of Biochemistry, for the period June 1, 1991 through August 15, 1991.Ms. M. Elizabeth Bruns as Research Associate Professor of Pathology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Arthur J. Bulger as Visiting Scholar in Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Robert Burnett as Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Edwin T. Burton as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Xiong Cai as Visiting Scholar in Chemistry, for the period September 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991.Dr. Wayne S. Cail as Associate Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. William E. Carter, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Don A. Christensen as Visiting Lecturer in Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Jan M. Christoph as Assistant Professor of Social Work, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Julia A. Clancy-Smith as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Michael T. Clayton as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Carl H. Cofer as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. George B. Craddock, Jr. as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Leland L. Cross as Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Harold E. Crow as Professor of Family Medicine, Lynchburg Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Edward J. Cukauskas as Visiting Research Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Joseph R. Dane as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Varsha J. Desai as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Nancy L. Desmond as Research Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Robert Diamond as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Jacques E. Dion as Visiting Associate Professor of Radiology, for the period July 1, 1991 through September 15, 1991.Dr. Vinko V. Dolenc as Visiting Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Patillo E. Donald as Assistant Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for two years, effective June 1, 1991.Ms. Ann D. Dunn as Research Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Kemal H. Elbirlik as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Sharon A. Esau as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Amando V. Esguerra as Assistant Professor of Pathology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Karl Eurenius as Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Murray H. Finley as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Ronald D. Fischer as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Tor Fjeldly as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective August 16, 1991.Mr. Joseph F. Fletcher as Visiting Scholar in Medical Ethics, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Patrick C. Fowler as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Rachel D. Fowlkes as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Anthony Frankfurter as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Robert G. Frankis, Jr. as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for the period July 1, 1991 through July 12, 1991.Mr. Arthur E. Freedlender as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period July 1, 1991 through November 30, 1991.Ms. Tanya Furman as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Glenn A. Gaesser as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Spencer B. Gay as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Bruce D. Gaylinn as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period May 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Mr. Bela Geczy, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective May 1, 1991.Mr. Vladimir G. Gelnovatch as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Deborah A. Gideon as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Eliezer Gileadi as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, part time, for the period July 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991.Mr. James T. Gill, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. George T. Gillies as Research Associate Professor of Engineering Physics and Biomedical Engineering, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Gerhard Glomm as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Pearl S. Gray as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period July 1, 1991 through May 31, 1993.Mr. Charles F. Gressard as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Clarice P. Gressard as Assistant Professor in Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Susan J. Grossman as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Sandra L. Gubin as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Mary A. Gunter as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Margaret E. Gutgesell as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Robin J. Hamill as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Kim W. Hamlett as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Marie H. Hanigan as Research Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. William K. Harper as Professor of Business Administration, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Mark L. Hartman as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. John F. Hawley as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. J. Ronald Heller as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Randy A. Hock as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Annelle V. Hodges as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Harold A. Hopkins as Research Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, General Medical Faculty, for the period August 1, 1991 through August 31, 1991.Ms. Elizabeth J. Hrncir as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Yunsheng Huang as Visiting Associate Professor of Architectural History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Anne W. Humphries as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Robert R. Humphris as Research Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Frank P. Hunter as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. David H. Ibbeken as Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Marcia A. Invernizzi as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Ali Iranmanesh as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Lynn A. Isabella as Associate Professor of Business Administration, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Rajiv Jain as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Ananda R. Jayaweera as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Betty M. Johnson as Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period July 1, 1991 through July 31, 1991.Ms. Valerie S. King as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Michael T. Kinter as Research Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Mable B. Kinzie as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Andra L. Larson as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Catherine A. Leslie as Research Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Arthur W. Lichtenberger as Research Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Rebecca J. Lindsay as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Paul A. Lombardo as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Ralph A. Lowry as Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, part time, for the period July 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991.Ms. Kathleen B. Lynch as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Stephen N. Macciocchi as Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1991.Ms. Barbara J. Mann as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Andrew B. Martof as Associate Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Robert S. Marvin as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Paul G. Matherne as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Robert E. Matson as Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Takamichi Matsuki as Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for the period August 1, 1991 through November 30, 1991.Dr. Daniel F. McCarter as Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Patrick J. McCarthy as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Patrick J. Michaels as Research Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Janet J. Michie as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Susan L. Mintz as Assistant Professor of Education, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. W. Edmund Moomaw as Professor, General Faculty, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Rachel Most as Scholar in Residence in Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. John P. Mugler, III as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Frank D. Nidiffer as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. John F. O'Bryant as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Thomas J. O'Leary as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Justine E. Owens as Research Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for the period August 1, 1991 through August 31, 1991.Ms. Sonia Pearson-White as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective August 1, 1991.Dr. John W. Pendleton as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Martin T. Phillips as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. John R. Redick as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Karen S. Rheuban as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Dana S. Richards as Visiting Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Hans O. Riddervold as Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Arie M. Rijke as Assistant Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Joel Rini as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Alfredo H. Rosas-Peniche as Visiting Scholar in Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Marion W. Ross as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Gordon S. Rule as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective June 1, 1991.Ms. Beverly H. Runge as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Douglas C. Russell as Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Thomas V. Ryan as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Christopher F. Sacchi as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. William J. Sacco as Visiting Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Cynthia W. Sanborn as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Ian J. Sarembock as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Jerzy Sarosiek as Research Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Jon T. Saunders as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Worthington G. Schenk, III as Associate Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. William P. Schofield as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Jorge E. Secada as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. John B. Selby as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. John D. Shannon as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Robert B. Sharp as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. John T. Sigmon as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Thomas M. Smith as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective May 1, 1991.Ms. Avril V. Somlyo as Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Thomas J. Spicuzza as Assistant Professor of Neurology, part time, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Douglas R. Spitz as Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Richard B. Sporik as Visiting Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period April 1, 1991 through September 30, 1991.Mr. Kotteazeth Srikumar as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period August 1, 1991 through June 30. 1992.Dr. Aubrey L. Stafford as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Sondra F. Stallard as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. William D. Steers as Assistant Professor of Urology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Michael A. Stern as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Joseph A. Stirt as Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Ruth L. Stornetta as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Gail W. Sullivan as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Patricia A. Sullivan as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Janice F. Sultenfuss as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective May 1, 1991.Mr. Anil K. Suri as Visiting Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, for the period July 1, 1991 through August 31, 1991.Dr. Lawrence H. Sutker as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, Western State, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Kuldeep Teja as Associate Professor of Pathology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Mano J. Thubrikar as Research Associate Professor of Surgery, for the period July 1, 1991 through September 30, 1991.Ms. Sybil R. Todd as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Enrique R. Torre as Visiting Research Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, for the period June 16, 1991 through July 15, 1992.Mr. Rafael Triana as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, Division of Medical Center Social Work, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Patricia A. Trimmer as Research Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, part time, for the period May 1, 1991 through June 30, 1991.Ms. Patricia A. Trimmer as Research Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, for the period July 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991.Mr. Fred Viebahn as Scholar in Residence in English, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Diane E. Wakat as Associate Professor of Education, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Janet I. Warren as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Toni G. Wegner as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Margot L. White as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Ethics in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period July 1, 1991 through September 30, 1991.Mr. William R. Wilkerson as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for the period July 1, 1991 through February 15, 1992.Dr. Wayne H. Wilson as Associate Professor of Surgery, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Oibim Yang as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, for the period August 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991.Dr. Tatsuo Yoneyama as Associate Professor of Pathology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Laszlo Zaborszky as Research Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, for the period July 1, 1991 through November 30, 1991.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Mr. George L. Cahen from Associate Professor of Engineering Education and Materials Science, General Faculty to Professor of Engineering Education and Materials Science, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Thomas W. Crowe from Research Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering to Research Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Todd P. Greenwald from Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Demetrios A. Julius from Clinical Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Clinical Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for the period July 1, 1991 through September 30, 1992.Mr. David B. Mattern from Instructor, General Faculty to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Yvonne G. Newberry from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Robert C. Pianta from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Louis J. Schott from Instructor in Ophthalmology, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Ms. Kathleen M. Balutansky, Assistant Professor of English, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.Mr. Richard B. Barnett, Associate Professor of History, without pay, for the period January 16, 1992 through May 31, 1992, to do research.Mr. Reda Bensmaia, Associate Professor of French, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to be visiting professor at Brown University.Mr. Robert P. Cook, Associate Professor of Computer Science, without pay, for the period August 1, 1991 through July 31, 1992, to be associated with Microsoft Corporation for this period.Ms. Alice H. Cooper, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.Ms. Cora Diamond, Professor of Philosophy, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, to be visiting professor at Princeton University.Mr. Robert E. Emery, Associate Professor of Psychology, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.Mr. Charles M. Engel, Associate Professor of Economics, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.Mr. Robert R. Fair, Professor of Business Administration, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1993, to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Mr. Michael S. Fenster, Instructor in Environmental Sciences, with partial pay, for the period February 1, 1991 through April 30, 1991, because of insufficient research funds.Mr. Arthur E. Freedlender, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, with pay, for the period June 1, 1991 through November 30, 1991, for medical reasons.Mr. Don Fullerton, Professor of Economics, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.Mr. Richard Handler, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, to do research.Dr. J. Owen Hendley, Professor of Pediatrics, with partial pay, for the period July 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992, for educational purposes.Mr. E. Donald Hirsch, Jr., Linden Kent Memorial Professor of English Literature, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, to do research.Ms. Emily E. Lape, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty and Clinical Assistant Professor of Social Work, General Medical Faculty, without pay, for the period July 1, 1991 through July 12, 1991, for professional purposes.Ms. Emily E. Lape, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty and Clinical Assistant Professor of Social Work, General Medical Faculty, without pay, for the period August 19, 1991 through August 23, 1991, for personal reasons.Ms. Suzanne Louis, Instructor, General Faculty, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 11, 1992, to complete a Masters degree.Ms. Barbara J. Mann, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, without pay, for the period June 1, 1991 through August 31, 1991, for personal reasons.Ms. Janet M. Pearlberg, Instructor, General Faculty, Medical Center, without pay, for the period June 10, 1991 through July 7, 1991, for educational purposes.Mr. Terrance W. Pratt, Research Professor of Computer Science, without pay, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.Mr. Eric R. Predo, Associate Professor of Education, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.Mr. Theodore W. Rall, Professor of Pharmacology, with partial pay, for the period May 1, 1991 through April 30, 1992, to qualify for the early retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Mr. K. L. Seshagiri Rao, Professor of Religious Studies, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 16, 1992, to work on an encyclopedia.Mr. G. Carleton Ray, Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, with partial pay, for the period May 1, 1991 through May 31, 1991, because of insufficient grant funds.Ms. Kathrine M. Reed, Lecturer, General Faculty, without pay, for the period June 10, 1991 through June 14, 1991, for personal reasons.Mr. John T. Sigmon, Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to be consultant to the United States House of Representatives Committee on Science, Space and Technology.Mr. S. Fred Singer, Research Professor of Environmental Science, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, for personal reasons.Ms. V. Shamim Sisson, Lecturer, General Faculty, without pay, for the period July 1, 1991 through July 31, 1991, for agency convenience.Mr. Jonathan S. Skinner, Associate Professor of Economics, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.Ms. Patricia A. Sullivan, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991, to accept a Virginia Foundation for Humanities fellowship.Dr. Dorothy G. Tompkins, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, part time, without pay, for the period May 1, 1991 through October 31, 1991, for medical reasons.Ms. Jeanne M. Toungara, Assistant Professor of History, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.Dr. Maryanne D. Williams, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, without pay, for the period June 3, 1991 through June 11, 1991, for personal reasons.Mr. Melvin N. Wilson, Associate Professor of Psychology, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Dr. Richard M. Carpenter from Assistant Professor of Comparative Medicine to Assistant Professor of Comparative Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Marcia D. Finney from Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Joanne M. Herbert from Assistant Professor of Education to Research Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Barbara A. Hobbs from Associate Professor of Comparative Medicine to Associate Professor of Comparative Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective May 1, 1991.Mr. W. Gilbert O'Neal from Instructor of Civil Engineering to Lecturer in Civil Engineering, for one semester, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. JoAnn V. Pinkerton from Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Emilie F. Rissman from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Assistant Professor of Biology, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1994.Ms. Carol W. Tomlinson from Acting Assistant Professor, General Faculty to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. W. Victor Vieweg from Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State and Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Mary C. Wimer from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Moses K. Woode from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Research Associate Professor of Chemistry to Associate Professor of Medical Education and Associate Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective May 16, 1991.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS DELETED

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Ms. Sally A. Amero, Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, effective July 31, 1991, to accept another position.Ms. Judith W. Balthazar, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective August 31, 1991, for personal reasons.Dr. Jeffrey L. Blumer, Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 31, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. Karen A. Bringelsen, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, effective August 31, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Bing C. Cai, Visiting Professor of Materials Science, effective June 30, 1991, because funding project ended.Mr. Peter A. Campochiaro, Professor of Ophthalmology, effective July 31, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Raymond D. Dueser, Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.Ms. Cynthia J. Duncan, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective May 9, 1991, to accept another position.Ms. Linda A. Eastham, Instructor in Nursing, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. Frank A. England, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, effective April 30, 1991, for personal reasons.Ms. Cheryl L. Eschbach, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective August 31, 1991, for personal reasons.Dr. Larry J. Findley, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1991, for personal reasons.Ms. Barbara G. Gallo, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective June 30, 1991, for personal reasons.Ms. Charlene E. Gill, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective May 15, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Peter B. H'Doubler, Jr., Assistant Professor of Surgery, effective June 30, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Allan M. Judd, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective August 31, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Kevin L. Keough, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, effective October 2, 1990, for personal reasons.Dr. Fred Koch, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, effective July 31, 1991, for personal reasons.Dr. Jan A. Leigh-Fleming, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective August 1, 1991, for personal reasons.Ms. Jeanne M. Liedtka, Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.Ms. Eve L. Menger, Professor of Chemistry, effective July 15, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Marc D. Moskovitz, Lecturer of Music in Cello, effective September 1, 1991, to accept another position.Ms. Yvonne G. Newberry, Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, effective August 15, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Robert M. Owen, Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective April 30, 1991, for personal reasons.Ms. Elayne K. Phillips, Associate Professor of Nursing, effective May 31, 1991, for personal reasons.Mr. Kenneth G. Pote, Research Assistant Professor of Biology, effective June 30, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Thomas Pruzinsky, Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, General Medical Faculty and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Austin E. Quigley, Professor of English, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.Ms. Janine P. Ray, Instructor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, effective August 2, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Michael D. Reed, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, effective July 31, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. David W. Robinson, Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, effective June 15, 1991, to accept another position.Ms. Mary V. Rorty, Lecturer in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, part time, effective August 31, 1991, for personal reasons.Dr. Theresa Schlager, Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective June 30, 1991, to accept another position with the Department of Pediatrics.Ms. Dhun G. Sharma, Instructor, General Faculty, Medical Center, effective June 30, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. George F. Shuster, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Gregory G. Simoncini, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective August 1, 1991, to accept another position.Ms. Deborah M. Strzepek, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, effective September 30, 1988, for personal reasons.Mr. Philip M. Tate, Acting Assistant Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Dean L. Urban, Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective July 31, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Stanley A. Vinores, Research Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, effective July 31, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. Eileen Watson, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1991, for personal reasons.Mr. Peter A. Wieringa, Visiting Associate Professor of Physiology, effective April 30, 1991, to accept another position.Ms. Carol A. Wilson, Assistant Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Ben C. Yen, Professor of Civil Engineering, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. William W. Young, Jr., Associate Professor of Pathology, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1991, to accept another position.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Ronald M. Hartwell, Professor of Economics, effective May 31, 1991. Mr. Hartwell has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1984.Mr. Roland E. Johnson, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective June 30, 1991. Mr. Johnson has been a member of the faculty since October 15, 1983.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Brandt R. Allen as Associate Dean for Executive Education, The Darden School, for three years, effective August 1, 1991.Mr. Herbert Braun as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. George L. Cahen as Assistant Dean for Graduate Programs, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Melvin Cherno as Principal of Stadium Road Residential College, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Barbara J. Deily as Acting Auditor, for the period April 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991.Mr. William H. Fishback, Jr. as Special Advisor to the President, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Robert F. German, Jr. as Chief of Staff, Office of the President, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Pearl S. Gray as Major Gifts Officer and Adviser to the President, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1993.Ms. Susan G. Harris as Assistant to the General Counsel, for one year, effective March 1, 1991.Mr. James L. Kelly as Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Programs, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Benjamin C. Ray as Co-Principal of Monroe Hill Residential College, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Maruta L. Ray as Co-Principal of Monroe Hill Residential College, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Albert B. Reynolds as Chairman of the Department of Nuclear Engineering and Engineering Physics, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. William G. Rowland, Jr. as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. C. Ray Smith as Associate Dean for Masters of Business Administration Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Patricia M. Spacks as Chair, Department of English, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. William J. Thurneck as Assistant Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period December 1, 1990 through June 30, 1991.Mr. William J. Thurneck as Assistant Dean for Administrative and Academic Affairs, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period July 1, 1991 through December 31, 1993.Ms. Valdrie N. Walker as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Margaret M. Williams as Assistant to the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, for the period June 10, 1991 through June 30, 1992.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Dr. B. Lewis Barnett, Jr. as Chairman, Department of Family Medicine, for one year, effective June 1, 1991.Ms. Linda K. Bunker as Associate Dean for Academic and Student Affairs, School of Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Robert W. Cantrell as Chairman, Department of Otolaryngology, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. James C. Garrison as Interim Chair of Pharmacology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Alice W. Handy as University Treasurer, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Betty M. Johnson as Interim Assistant Dean for Continuing Education and Offgrounds, School of Nursing, for the period July 1, 1991 through July 31, 1991.Mr. Stephen A. Kimata as University Bursar, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1994.Mr. William F. Lanier as Assistant Dean, Federal Bureau of Investigation National Academy, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Jen-Shih Lee as Chairman, Department of Biomedical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. L. Jay Lemons as Assistant to the President, for the period September 1, 1991 through April 30, 1992.Ms. Hilary L. Morgan as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. David Morris as Associate Dean for Academic Programs, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Robert H. Pate, Jr. as Chairman, Department of Human Services, School of Education, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Michael J. Peach as Associate Dean for Research, School of Medicine, for three years, effective April 1, 1991.Mr. Timothy J. Scovill as Associate Dean for Academic Support, Division of Continuing Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Jerry G. Short as Chairman, Department of Educational Studies, School of Education, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Warren G. Stamp as Chairman, Department of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Sybil R. Todd as Associate Dean of Students, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Albert R. Turnbull as Associate Dean, School of Law, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Milton E. Turner as Dean of Afro-American Affairs, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Peyton E. Weary as Chairman, Department of Dermatology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Larry B. Wenger as Law Librarian, School of Law, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. William R. Wilkerson as Assistant Provost for Research, for the period July 1, 1991 through February 15, 1992.

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person be and he is hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Joseph E. Gibson, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Professor of Professional Accounting, effective June 30, 1991.

CHANGE IN ELECTION OF DR. LARRY D. EDWARDS
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Dr. Larry D. Edwards as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for the period January 1, 1991 through June 30, 1993, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 22, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Dr. Larry D. Edwards as Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for the period January 1, 1991 through June 30, 1993.

CHANGE IN THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MR. WILLIAM W. ABBOT
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Mr. William W. Abbot as James Madison Professor of History, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to qualify for the incentive retirement plan, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 22, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Mr. William W. Abbot, James Madison Professor of History, with partial pay, for the period July 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992, to qualify for the incentive retirement plan.

CHANGE IN THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF DR. ROBERT W. CANTRELL
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Dr. Robert W. Cantrell, Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, for the period September 1, 1990 through February 28, 1991, without pay, to accept the call to active duty, as shown in the Minutes of the Meeting of February 1, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Dr. Robert W. Cantrell, Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, for the period September 1, 1990 through August 31, 1991, without pay, to accept the call to active duty.

CHANGE IN THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MR. AVERY CATLIN
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Mr. Avery Catlin, University Professor of Engineering, for the period January 16, 1991 through January 15, 1992, without pay, to continue early retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of February 1, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Mr. Avery Catlin, University Professor of Engineering, for the period January 16, 1991 through May 31, 1991, without pay, to continue early retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.

CHANGE IN THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MS. LUCIANA G. WLASSICS
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Ms. Luciana G. Wlassics as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period June 3, 1991 through July 31, 1991, without pay, for personal reasons, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of May 24, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Ms. Luciana G. Wlassics, as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period June 3, 1991 through July 31, 1991, without pay, for a voluntary furlough.

CHANGE IN THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE RESIGNATION OF DR. CYNTHIA L. JANUS
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the resignation of Dr. Cynthia L. Janus, Associate Professor of Radiology, effective August 30, 1991, for personal reasons, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of May 24, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:

Dr. Cynthia L. Janus, Associate Professor of Radiology, effective June 24, 1991, for personal reasons.

CHANGE IN RESIGNATION OF MR. STEPHEN N. MACFARLANE
--------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the resignation of Mr. Stephen N. MacFarlane, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign affairs, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of May 24, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:

Mr. Stephen N. MacFarlane, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective August 1, 1991, to accept another position.

CHANGE IN THE RETIREMENT OF MR. JOHN W. BORING
----------------------------------------------

The President announced that the retirement of Mr. John W. Boring, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective May 31, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 22, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows: Mr. John W. Boring, Professor of Engineering Physics, effective May 31, 1991. Mr. Boring has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1962.

CHANGE IN RETIREMENT OF MR. JOSEPH E. GIBSON
--------------------------------------------

The President announced that the retirement of Mr. Joseph E. Gibson, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Professor of Professional Accounting, effective May 31, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 22, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows: Mr. Joseph E. Gibson, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Professor of Professional Accounting, effective June 30, 1991. Mr. Gibson has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1955.

CHANGE IN ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS OF MR. JOSEPH E. GIBSON
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Professor Emeritus of Mr. Joseph E. Gibson, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Professor of Professional Accounting, effective May 31, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 22, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Mr. Joseph E. Gibson, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Professor of Professional Accounting, effective June 30, 1991.

ELECTION OF MR. THOMAS H. JACKSON AS INTERIM VICE PRESIDENT AND PROVOST OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. Thomas H. Jackson be and he is hereby elected as Interim Vice President and Provost of the University of Virginia until a Vice President and Provost of the University is elected, effective September 1, 1991.

ELECTION OF MR. ROBERT D. SWEENEY AS VICE PRESIDENT FOR DEVELOPMENT
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. Robert D. Sweeney, be and he is hereby elected Vice President for Development, for five years, effective August 1, 1991.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEELECTIONS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Christopher F. Achua as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. LeAnder Canady as Associate Professor of Art, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Carroll W. Dale as Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective June 1, 1991.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Robert J. Cantrell as Assistant Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Robert L. Dise as Assistant Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Roy W. Ely as Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Glenn C. Gamst as Assistant Professor of Psychology, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. L. Sue Greer as Assistant Professor of Sociology, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Bernard Hall as Assistant Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Larry D. Lagow as Professor of French, Clinch Valley College, for the period July 1, 1991 through October 31, 1991.Ms. Mary J. Lewis as Assistant Professor of English, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Matthew J. Mariano as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Thomas M. McCall as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Roman I. Zylawy as Associate Professor of French, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Clifford A. Edwards, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Clinch Valley College, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to pursue doctoral degree.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. James B. Canipe, Assistant Professor of Economics, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1991, to pursue a doctoral degree.Mr. Sreenath Shama, Visiting Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1991, for personal reasons.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Edward L. Henson, Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, effective July 1, 1991. Mr. Henson has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1958.Mr. William J. Hooper, Jr., Professor of Physics, Clinch Valley College, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Hooper has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1959.Mr. Charles W. Lewis, Professor of Speech and Theatre, Clinch Valley College, effective July 1, 1991. Mr. Lewis has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1966.Mr. James C. Willis, Associate Professor of Accounting, Clinch Valley College, effective October 1, 1991. Mr. Willis has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1960.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. David L. Kendall as Chairman, Department of Business Studies, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. John G. Blackburn as Chairman, Department of History and Philosophy, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. George E. Culbertson as Associate Dean and Registrar, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Richard A. Davidson as Chairman, Department of Education, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. D. Michael Donathan as Chairman, Department of Visual and Performing Arts, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Paul D. Elosser as Chairman, Department of Mathematical Sciences, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Larry D. Lagow as Director of Development, Clinch Valley College, for the period July 1, 1991 through October 31, 1991.Mr. Mel J. Mahony as Chairman of Department of Languages and Literature, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Dania M. Meghabghab as Associate Director of Library Services, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Christopher Rizzo as Coordinator of Residence and Greek Life, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 17, 1991.Ms. Frances C. Roberson as Director of Career Counseling and Placement, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Garrett W. Sheldon as Chairman, Department of Social and Behavioral Science, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Philip C. Shelton as Chairman, Department of Natural Sciences, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. James C. Willis as Chief Business Officer, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITI
-----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Edward L. Henson, Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. William J. Hooper, Jr., Professor of Physics, Clinch Valley College, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Charles W. Lewis, Professor of Speech and Theatre, Clinch Valley College, effective July 1, 1991.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BASIL L. GILDERSLEEVE PROFESSORSHIP IN CLASSICS
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the College of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Basil L. Gildersleeve Professorship in Classics. The Board is grateful to the Trusts of Emma Gildersleeve Lane and Katherine L. Weems who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HARRISON FOUNDATION PROFESSORSHIP IN MEDICINE AND LAW
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established jointly in the School of Medicine and the School of Law a Chair to be known as the Harrison Foundation Professorship in Medicine and Law. The Board is grateful to the Harrison Foundation who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DALE S. COENEN PROFESSORSHIP IN FREE ENTERPRISE
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration a Chair to be known as the Dale S. Coenen Professorship in Free Enterprise. The Board is grateful to Mr. Harry E. Figgie, Jr., who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

COMBINE AND CHANGE THE NAME OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN SURGERY AND THE MULLER SURGICAL SOCIETY PROFESSORSHIP IN SURGERY TO THE WILLIAM H. MULLER, JR., PROFESSORSHIP IN SURGERY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Distinguished Professorship in Surgery and the Muller Surgical Society Professorship in Surgery be combined and the name is hereby changed to the William H. Muller, Jr., Professorship in Surgery.

ELECTION OF THE HONORABLE HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TO THE COUNCIL OF THE MILLER CENTER FOR PUBLIC AFFAIRS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that The Honorable Howard H. Baker, Jr., be and he is hereby elected as a member of the Council of the Miller Center for Public Affairs, for a term of four years, effective November 22, 1991.

APPROVAL OF PER SHARE CONSOLIDATED ENDOWMENT INCOME DISTRIBUTION FROM THE CONSOLIDATED ENDOWMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR 1991-1992
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be and he is hereby authorized to increase the per share Consolidated Endowment income distribution for Fiscal Year 1991-1992 by 4% over the amount distributed in Fiscal Year 1990-1991, including the special distribution of $5.00 per share, or $34.22 per share.

WRITE-OFF OF BAD DEBTS AND FREE SERVICE FOR THE MEDICAL CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------------

Bad Debt

$ 4,719,382.46

Indigent Care

30,566,463.59

\--------------

Total

$35,285,846.05

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Medical Center Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts included in the University of Virginia Medical Center Accounts Committee Reports for the meeting of July 1, 1991 and August 19, 1991 which include the write-offs for the months of March through July 1991 totalling $35,285,846.05 and consisting of the following:Bad Debt$ 4,719,382.46Indigent Care30,566,463.59--------------Total$35,285,846.05RESOLVED FURTHER, that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of debts represented by such accounts.

APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL REPORT PERTAINING TO EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATE University of Virginia John Lee Pratt Funds For Year Ended June 30, 1991
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unexpended Balance 06/30/90

1990-91 Expenditures

FY 91 Net Total Allocations(1) (1)Allocations include amounts approved by the Board of Visitors for 1991-92.

Unexpended Balance 06/30/91

Arts & Sciences

Biology

Student Support

$ 108,307.59

$ 100,649.13

$ 100,000.00

$ 107,658.46

Faculty Salary Support

(0.54)

0.00

0.00

(0.54)

\*\*Research & Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research & Equipment

162,937.14

138,375.64

190,000.00

214,561.50

271,244.19

239,024.77

290,000.00

322,219.42

Chemistry

Student Support

88,704.22

85,113.30

114,500.00

118,090.92

Faculty Salary Support

15,800.24

0.00

0.00

15,800.24

\*Research & Equipment

6,936.82

2,938.50

175,500.00

179,498.32

111,441.28

88,051.80

290,000.00

313,389.48

Mathematics

Student Support

165,442.13

133,058.41

134,760.00

167,143.72

Faculty Salary Support

84,830.37

59,521.63

65,259.00

90,567.74

\*Research & Equipment

33,195.03

19,418.35

89,981.00

103,757.68

283,467.53

211,998.39

290,000.00

361,469.14

Physics

Student Support

123,667.62

181,093.36

337,000.00

279,574.26

Faculty Salary Support

71,056.20

112,985.87

0.00

(41,929.67)

\*Research & Equipment

558,811.26

112,891.98

(47,000.00)

398,919.28

753,535.08

406,971.21

290,000.00

636,563.87

School of Medicine

Student Support

315,477.77

297,836.67

315,000.00

332,641.10

\*Research & Equipment

991,831.26

796,118.08

845,000.00

1,040,713.18

1,307,309.03

1,093,954.75

1,160,000.00

1,373,354.28

TOTALS

$ 2,726,997.11

$ 2,040,000.92

$ 2,320,000.00

$ 3,006,996.19

Pratt Bequest Income - Receiving Account (0-45950)

(268,000.00)

Net Balance

$ 2,738,996.19

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the financial report pertaining to funds received from the estate of John Lee Pratt for the period ended June 30, 1991, be and it is hereby approved.

Unexpended Balance 06/30/90 1990-91 Expenditures FY 91 Net Total Allocations(1) (1)Allocations include amounts approved by the Board of Visitors for 1991-92. Unexpended Balance 06/30/91 Arts & Sciences Biology Student Support $ 108,307.59 $ 100,649.13 $ 100,000.00 $ 107,658.46 Faculty Salary Support (0.54) 0.00 0.00 (0.54) \*\*Research & Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research & Equipment 162,937.14 138,375.64 190,000.00 214,561.50 271,244.19 239,024.77 290,000.00 322,219.42 Chemistry Student Support 88,704.22 85,113.30 114,500.00 118,090.92 Faculty Salary Support 15,800.24 0.00 0.00 15,800.24 \*Research & Equipment 6,936.82 2,938.50 175,500.00 179,498.32 111,441.28 88,051.80 290,000.00 313,389.48 Mathematics Student Support 165,442.13 133,058.41 134,760.00 167,143.72 Faculty Salary Support 84,830.37 59,521.63 65,259.00 90,567.74 \*Research & Equipment 33,195.03 19,418.35 89,981.00 103,757.68 283,467.53 211,998.39 290,000.00 361,469.14 Physics Student Support 123,667.62 181,093.36 337,000.00 279,574.26 Faculty Salary Support 71,056.20 112,985.87 0.00 (41,929.67) \*Research & Equipment 558,811.26 112,891.98 (47,000.00) 398,919.28 753,535.08 406,971.21 290,000.00 636,563.87 School of Medicine Student Support 315,477.77 297,836.67 315,000.00 332,641.10 \*Research & Equipment 991,831.26 796,118.08 845,000.00 1,040,713.18 1,307,309.03 1,093,954.75 1,160,000.00 1,373,354.28 TOTALS $ 2,726,997.11 $ 2,040,000.92 $ 2,320,000.00 $ 3,006,996.19 Pratt Bequest Income - Receiving Account (0-45950) (268,000.00) Net Balance $ 2,738,996.19

Allocations include amounts approved by the Board of Visitors for 1991-92.

Research & Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR THE CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE GAS DIVISION ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated October 5, 1991 between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the City of Charlottesville Gas Division which grants a fifteen (15) foot easement of right-of-way to operate and maintain a natural gas line across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia known as the Piedmont Faculty Housing complex and located in the southwestern portion of the Grounds, be and it is hereby approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be and they are hereby authorized to execute said deed of easement.

MODIFICATION OF CLINICAL COMPENSATION PLAN
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Clinical and Pathology Compensation Plan previously approved by the Board of Visitors has undergone a thorough review by Health Sciences Center management; andWHEREAS, as a result the Plan has been modified in the following significant respects:(1) Eliminate the mechanism of a 10% pool contribution from each department, a provision deemed no longer necessary;(2) Fund the School of Medicine Academic Advancement Fund with an amount equal to 8% of each department's gross professional fee collections less indirect cost recoveries made available to the Dean of the School of Medicine from the department's sponsored program research projects;(3) Adjust the clinical and pathology salary scale so that the maximum for guaranteed salaries is set at the 50th percentile of the national average for clinical faculty by discipline and rank, as reported annually by the Association of American Medical Colleges and so that maximum compensation, including variable and non-guaranteed payments, will not exceed 2.5 times the 50th percentile of the national averages defined above;WHEREAS, these revisions to the Plan are deemed necessary in order to foster the academic and service missions of the Health Sciences Center in an era of limited resources and a rapidly changing health care environment; andWHEREAS, the Vice President for Health Sciences, the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and the President have endorsed and hereby recommend these revisions to the Plan;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia concurs with the recommended revisions to the Clinical and Pathology Compensation Plan.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported on gifts, grants and contracts for the period April 1, 1991 through July 31, 1991 totaling $13,823,755. He also reported on gifts of property to the University of Virginia Library and Blandy Experimental Farm during the period April 1, 1991 through July 31, 1991.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION TO DR. JAY Y. GILLENWATER
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Dr. Jay Y. Gillenwater was installed in the spring of 1991 as the 87th president of the American Urological Association; andWHEREAS, Dr. Gillenwater has been a member of the urology staff at the University since 1965 and the chairman of the department of urology since 1967; andWHEREAS, under Dr. Gillenwater's leadership, the University became one of the first six medical centers in the United States to use lithotripsy for treating kidney stones and has continued to be among the nation's leaders in developing further uses of the technique; andWHEREAS, Dr. Gillenwater's professional colleagues have honored him by giving him the Russell and Mary Hugh Scott Education Award of the American Urological Association and the President's Award of the National Kidney Foundation, both in 1980; andWHEREAS, Dr. Gillenwater was president of the American Board of Urology in 1988 and was listed this year by Good Housekeeping magazine as one of the "400 Best Doctors in America" and by Town and Country magazine in 1984 as among "The Best Medical Specialists in the United States; andWHEREAS, Dr. Gillenwater has written or co-written more than 150 urologic articles and contributed to seven major urologic textbooks;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors commends Dr. Gillenwater and congratulates him for the honor he has brought to his profession and to the University of Virginia.

RESOLUTION ON GENERAL OBLIGATION BOND
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Commonwealth of Virginia, over the past six years, has not provided General Fund support for capital outlay construction at its colleges and universities;WHEREAS, there is critical need for new space and improvements to existing space at the University of Virginia and elsewhere in public higher education to accommodate current academic, research, and service programs;WHEREAS, there is also a need to begin to provide the space necessary to accommodate expected and planned enrollment growth at the University and elsewhere in public higher education in 1996;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia strongly endorse a General Obligation Bond Issue in 1992-1994 that will address the most critical capital outlay needs of the institutions of higher education in Virginia.

APPROVAL OF INVESTMENT IN VENTURE CAPITAL FUND
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to commit $3 million of the Consolidated Endowment for the following Venture Capital Fund: Oak Investment Partners V.

ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY AT 914-918 EMMET STREET
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the University Real Estate Foundation recently reached agreement with the Mead Corporation to acquire property for use by the Rector and Visitors at 914-918 Emmet Street ("the Property"), at the price of $1,150,000; andWHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors intend to use the property to house administrative and/or academic units; andWHEREAS, closing is expected to occur not earlier than December 31, 1991 and not later than December 31, 1992; andWHEREAS, occupancy is expected to occur not earlier than December 31, 1992; andWHEREAS, the University expects to make repairs and improvements to the Property in the approximate amount of $275,000;RESOLVED that the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be and he is hereby authorized (1) to seek state approval for the acquisition of the Property, (2) to take such action and execute such documents that are reasonably necessary to effectuate the acquisition of the Property, either from the Mead Corporation or from the University Real Estate Foundation; and (3) to advance funds not to exceed $1,425,000 from the University general fund for acquisition of and repairs and improvements to the Property, such advance to be repaid prior to June 30, 1995 from unrestricted private funds or such other funds as may be budgeted for that purpose.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period May 1, 1991 through August 31, 1991, as presented by the Acting Director of Audits, be and it is hereby approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

RESOLUTION REGARDING AMENDMENTS TO THE MANUAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 1985
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President invited the Board to consider as the first item the revision of the Board Manual. Using material distributed to the Board, Mr. Casteen discussed the changes to the Manual proposed by the Executive Committee. He enumerated the changes and additions proposed to Sections 2.22, 2.36, 3.1, 3.24, 3.25, 3.27, 4.11, 4.5, 4.51, 4.52, 5.2, 5.4, and 5.41.

Mr. Mingle, the General Counsel, also commented on the proposed changes. He said, too, that since the Executive Committee had not, in its meeting of last week, reviewed the amendments pertaining to the Assistant Secretary and the Clerk of the Board, a member of the Committee should propose a resolution waiving the notice of meeting for the Committee.

On motion, the Executive Committee waived notice of the amendment pertaining to the Clerk of the Board.

Mr. Butcher proposed that Section 2.22 be amended to include the following sentence: "Further, Visitors Emeriti shall be sent copies of the Minutes of each Board meeting and be invited to meet each year with current members of the Board at a social function."

Mr. Wilson objected to the addition of Section 2.22 to the Manual, which, he said, should be a bare bones statement of the rules the Board should go by. He said he had no objection to the concept of Visitors Emeriti, but he did not think it should be part of the Manual.

Mr. Middleditch agreed with Mr. Wilson.

After discussion, Mr. Butcher's proposal was moved as an amendment and a vote was taken by show of hands; the amendment passed, 9 to 6. A vote by show of hands was then taken on Section 2.22 and it, too, was passed, 8 to 5.

Votes were taken on each of the other proposed changes to the Manual; all of the changes were approved unanimously, including a modification to the change proposed for Section 5.2 eliminating the words "Assistant Secretary."

Mr. Casteen asked the Board to be allowed to make other changes in nomenclature in the Manual if this proves necessary; for example, he said, there may be other references to "Assistant Secretary" which have been overlooked and which will have to be deleted.

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 5.9 of The Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Executive Committee has considered certain proposed amendments to The Manual at its meeting on September 28, 1991; andWHEREAS, the Executive Committee views with favor the amendments set forth below and hereby recommends that such amendments be adopted by the Board of Visitors:RESOLVED that the following amendments to The Manual be and they are hereby made:1 1Double-underlined text indicates new text; shaded text indicates deleted text. Section 2.22 Visitors Emeriti - In recognition of the invaluable service they render to the University during their terms of office and the informed counsel they may continue to provide after their terms expire, former Members of the Board shall be designated Visitors Emeriti. Further, Visitors Emeriti shall be sent copies of the Minutes of each Board meeting and be invited to meet at least once each year with current members of the Board at a social function.Section 2.36 Dockets - For the Annual Meeting and each regular meeting, the Secretary shall prepare, under the supervision of the President, a docket comprising such matters as the Board, the Rector, the President, and the chairman of each Standing Committee shall refer for consideration. This docket shall include all the agenda items to be considered by the Board and its committees at the such meetings that are known by the President and the Secretary at the time the docket is prepared. A copy of this docket, to be called the Regular Docket, shall be presented for the Rector's review and approval, and thereafter shall be mailed to each member of the Board at least ten days prior to the meeting of the Board. Matters which arise between the mailing of the Regular Docket and the convening of the Board shall be presented to the Board in the Supplementary Docket, which is to be prepared by the Secretary under the supervision of the President. The notice of a special meeting containing a list of the items to be considered shall take the place of the Regular Docket at a special meeting.Section 3.1 The Executive Committee - At each Annual Meeting the Board shall elect from among its membership an Executive Committee composed of five members. These five members shall consist of the Rector, who shall serve as chairman, and four Visitors to be elected by the Board. Nominations for these four positions on the Executive Committee may be made by any Visitor, and if there are more than four nominations the a vote shall be by written ballot, the votes to be counted taken and the results shall be announced jointly by the Rector and the Secretary. Any vacancy on the Executive Committee shall be filled for the unexpired term at the next regular meeting of the Board and by written ballot vote if there is more than one nomination. Section 3.2 Standing Committees - The Standing Committees of the Board shall consist of the Finance Committee, Buildings and Grounds Committee, Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, Educational Policy Committee, Health Affairs Committee, External Relations Committee, and the Audit Committee . . .Section 3.24 Educational Policy Committee - The Educational Policy Committee shall have responsibility in all matters relating to educational policies and programs, except for those matters subject to the oversight of the Health Sciences Affairs Committee . . . .Section 3.25 Health Affairs Committee - The Health Affairs Committee shall have responsibility in all matters relating to medical affairs, including the School of Medicine, the School of Nursing, the University Hospital Health Sciences Center, and other matters associated with health care.Section 3.27 External Relations Committee - The External Relations Committee shall have responsibility in all matters pertaining to University development, alumni affairs, governmental relations and public communications. It shall exercise oversight over programs that promote private donations to, and alumni support of the University, including related activities undertaken directly by University offices and by affiliated foundations on the University's behalf.Section 4.11 Election - The Board at its first regular meeting after February 28, 1986, and every fourth year thereafter, shall elect a Rector from among its members to serve until February 28 of the fourth year thereafter and until his successor is elected. At such meetings, the election shall be by written ballot majority vote of the members present following nominations, and the Secretary shall serve as the presiding officer until an election is accomplished unless the Board decides to appoint another presiding officer. The Secretary shall count the ballots and the balloting shall continue until a Rector is elected by a majority vote of the members present votes and announce the election of the Rector. The written ballot may be dispensed with by unanimous consent.Section 5.2 Retirement - The President, Comptroller, General Counsel, and Secretary shall retire on the first of July next following the attainment of the age of seventy. relinquish their positions as Officers of the Board upon retirement or resignation from their administrative duties.Section 5.4 Minutes of Board Meetings - The minutes of the Annual, and Regular and Special meetings of the Board shall be open to inspection as required by law.FURTHER RESOLVED that The Manual be republished to include the above amendments and all amendments previously adopted by the Board of Visitors since 1985 (the date The Manual was last reprinted); and to update the listings of Rectors, Presidents, Board Members, Student Board Members, and Secretaries.RESOLVED that The Manual of the Board of Visitors be and hereby is amended by deleting in their entirety Sections 4.5, 4.51, and 4.52 pertaining to the position of Assistant Secretary,; by deleting references to the term "Assistant Secretary" in the Introduction to Chapter 4, page 15; and by substituting therefore the following provisions:Section 5.41 Clerk of the Board - The President may appoint a Clerk of the Board to provide administrative and clerical support to the Secretary, the President, the Rector and members of the Board in fulfilling their responsibilities as prescribed in this Manual. The Clerk of the Board shall serve at the pleasure of the President.

Double-underlined text indicates new text; shaded text indicates deleted text.

RESOLUTION ON RESTORATION OF FACULTY COMPENSATION
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the maintenance of excellence in higher education is a necessary component of the Commonwealth's future social and economic well being; andWHEREAS, the Board of Visitors recognizes the need to attract and retain an outstanding faculty to permit the University to continue its quest for academic excellence in the pursuit of knowledge; andWHEREAS, the Board of Visitors is concerned that faculty compensation, including salary and retirement benefits, has suffered because of recent economic conditions;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia strongly recommend that in the process of recovery from the current recession, the Commonwealth of Virginia permit restoration of the faculty compensation cuts caused by the recession and appropriate sufficient additional funds to permit the University to continue to attract and retain an outstanding group of teachers and scholars.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 5:15 p.m.

AGG:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: October 3, 1991

CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING

WHEREAS, the Audit Committee of the BOV has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Audit Committee that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Audit Committee hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Audit Committee.

VOTE

AYES: 16

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 1

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 1

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Edward E. Elson

yes

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

absent

S. Buford Scott

yes

Jesse B. Wilson, III

yes

Thomas E. Worrell, Jr.

yes

Adam S. Arthur

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on October 3, 1991, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAME VOTE (yes or no) COMMENTS W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr. yes Robert G. Butcher, Jr. yes N. Thomas Connally yes Hovey S. Dabney yes Edward E. Elson yes Waller H. Horsley yes J. Thomas Hulvey yes Evans B. Jessee yes Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge yes Arnold H. Leon yes Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. yes Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie yes Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr. absent S. Buford Scott yes Jesse B. Wilson, III yes Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. yes Adam S. Arthur yes

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: October 4, 1991

CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors, 2:30 p.m. has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors

VOTE

AYES: 16

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 1

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 1

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Edward E. Elson

yes

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

absent

S. Buford Scott

yes

Jesse B. Wilson, III

yes

Thomas E. Worrell, Jr.

yes

Adam S. Arthur

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on October 4, 1991, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAME VOTE (yes or no) COMMENTS W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr. yes Robert G. Butcher, Jr. yes N. Thomas Connally yes Hovey S. Dabney yes Edward E. Elson yes Waller H. Horsley yes J. Thomas Hulvey yes Evans B. Jessee yes Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge yes Arnold H. Leon yes Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. yes Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie yes Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr. absent S. Buford Scott yes Jesse B. Wilson, III yes Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. yes Adam S. Arthur yes