Board of Visitors minutes (1994) February 4, 1994
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

February 4, 1994

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

OFFICIAL MINUTES - TENTATIVE Subject to the Approval of The Board of Visitors THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA February 4-5, 1994
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 11:25 a.m., on Friday, February 4, 1994, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Warner N. Dalhouse, Daniel A. Hoffler, Ms. Chris A. Howe, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, S. Buford Scott, and Albert H. Small. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Don E. Detmer, Ernest H. Ern, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Robert T. Canevari, L. Jay Lemons, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 4:00 p.m., on Friday, February 4, 1994, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Warner N. Dalhouse, Daniel A. Hoffler, Chris A. Howe, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., S. Buford Scott, and Albert H. Small. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Don E. Detmer, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, Robert T. Canevari, L. Jay Lemons, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 10:00 a.m., on Saturday, February 5, 1994, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Warner N. Dalhouse, Daniel A. Hoffler, Chris A. Howe, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., S. Buford Scott, and Albert H. Small. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Don E. Detmer, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, Robert T. Canevari, L. Jay Lemons, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of November 11, 1993, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending and potential litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of The Code of Virginia.(b) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and considering reports and recommendations of the University Auditor related to the recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, including Mechanical, Aerospace and Nuclear Engineering, The Darden School, the Children's Specialty Services, the Health Sciences Center Development Office, the Telecommunications On-line Management System, the W-2 Distribution System, and Printing Services, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of The Code of Virginia.(c) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia; as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of The Code of Virginia.(d) That the External Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing specific fundraising activities and development strategies in connection with the Capital Campaign, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (8) of The Code of Virginia.Following Committee meetings and a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session of the full Board resumed at 4:00 p.m., on Friday, February 4, 1994, recessed, and resumed once more at 10:00 a.m., on Saturday, February 5, 1994.

Elections
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Martin H. Altschul as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective November 1, 1993.Mr. Michel Broue as Visiting Research Professor of Mathematics, for the period October 10, 1993 through November 20, 1993.Mr. Wayne H. Carney as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period October 25, 1993 through June 30, 1995.Dr. Donald P.K. Chan as Professor of Orthopaedics, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. Ishmail Conway as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1993.Mr. Dale C. Copeland as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.Ms. Diane L. Damiano as Assistant Professor of Research in Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, for one year, effective September 1, 1993.Mr. Clay G. Dixon as Affiliate Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period December 16, 1993 through December 31, 1994.Mr. John A. Dokken as Instructor, General Faculty, for the period October 1, 1993 through June 30, 1994.Dr. Marcel Durieux as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective January 1, 1994.Dr. Thomas G. Evans as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1993.Ms. Sandra Y. Feagan as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period December 1, 1993 through June 30, 1994.Ms. Rita Felski as Professor of English, effective January 16, 1994.Mr. Samuel A. Green as Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, for three years, effective January 1, 1994.Ms. Rebecca B. Harmon as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period November 1, 1993 through June 30, 1994.Mr. Louis G. Horn as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective October 1, 1993.Dr. Ross Isaacs as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective October 1, 1993.Mr. Thomas M. Johnston as Instructor, General Faculty, for the period December 1, 1993 through June 30, 1994.Dr. Everett R. Jones, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1993.Mr. Scott S. Keeney as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective October 1, 1993.Mr. Jeff R. Lindholm as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period November 1, 1993 through June 30, 1995.Ms. Nancy K. Love as Lecturer, General Faculty, for two years, effective November 1, 1993.Ms. Gail A. McDaniel as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective October 18, 1993.Ms. Mary H. Moore as Affiliate Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period January 17, 1994 through June 30, 1995.Dr. Ruth E. Moran as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective October 1, 1993.Mr. Jerzy T. Pindera as Visiting Research Professor of Civil Engineering and Applied Mechanics, for the period October 1, 1993 through October 31, 1993.Ms. Kathleen M. Quinn as Lecturer in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective September 13, 1993.Ms. Nila Saliba as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period November 1, 1993 through June 30, 1995.Mr. Jorge E. Secada as Associate Professor of Philosophy, effective January 16, 1994.Mr. Andrew P. Selfridge as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective October 11, 1993.Ms. Jane J. Sheaffer as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective October 18, 1993.Dr. Navjeet Kaur Sidhu-Malik as Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective October 1, 1993.Dr. David C. Slawson as Associate Professor of Clinical Family Medicine, for three years, effective January 17, 1994.Dr. Roy M. Stefanik as Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective October 11, 1993.Mr. Michael V. Sullivan as Associate Librarian, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for one year, effective November 1, 1993.Mr. Douglas R. Taylor as Assistant Professor of Biology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Susan D. Wheeler as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective October 18, 1993.Ms. Judith M. White as Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. William H. Wood as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective September 7, 1993.

Election of Part-Time Faculty
-----------------------------

Election of Non-Salaried Faculty
--------------------------------

Election of Clinical Faculty
----------------------------

Actions Relating to Chairholders
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of Chairholder(s)Dr. Fritz E. Dreifuss as Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Research Professor of Epileptology and Neurology, effective November 16, 1993. Dr. Dreifuss will continue as Professor of Neurology, without term.Mr. John C. Fletcher as Emily Davie and Joseph S. Kornfeld Professor of Biomedical Ethics, effective November 16, 1993.Mr. John Gleeson as John A. Ewald, Jr. Distinguished Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1994.Mr. E. Donald Hirsch, Jr. as University Professor, effective September 1, 1994. Mr. Hirsch will continue as Linden Kent Memorial Professor of English Literature, without term.Dr. Stuart S. Howards as John E. Cole Professor of Urology, effective March 1, 1994.Dr. William D. Steers, Associate Professor of Urology, as Jay Y. Gillenwater Professor of Urology, effective March 1, 1994.(b) Re-election of ChairholderMs. Felicia Gaskin as J. Pretlow Darden Professor in the School of Medicine and Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, for one year, effective November 1, 1993.(c) Leaves of Absence of Chairholder(s)Mr. George P. Garrett, Henry Hoyns Professor of Creative Writing, with partial pay, for one year, effective January 16, 1994, to work on his new books.Mr. Richard B. Lillich, Howard W. Smith Professor of Law, without pay, for the period January 16, 1994 through May 31, 1994, for educational purposes.(d) Change of Title of ChairholderDr. Jay Y. Gillenwater from John E. Cole Professor of Urology to Hovey S. Dabney Professor of Urology, effective March 1, 1994.(e) Retirements of Chairholder(s)

The following retirements were announced: Dr. Robert M. Berne, Alumni Professor of Physiology, effective January 3, 1994. Dr. Berne has been a member of the faculty since August 15, 1966.Mr. Eugene S. McVey, Alice M. and Guy A. Wilson Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective January 15, 1994. Mr. McVey has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1961.(f) Appointments of Chairholder(s)

The following appointments were announced: Mr. John R. Nesselroade as Acting Chair, Department of Psychology, for one year, effective September 1, 1994.(g) Re-appointments of Chairholder(s)

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. William A. Jesser as Chair, Department of Materials Science and Engineering, for two years, effective January 1, 1994.

Re-elections
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Tamas Agocs as Visiting Research Scholar in Tibetan Buddhism, for the period February 1, 1994 through April 30, 1994.Mr. Stephen D. Arata as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Arlene Aveno as Research Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.Ms. Catherine D. Baritaud as Instructor in Technology, Culture and Communications, for one semester, effective January 16, 1994.Mr. J. Norwood Bosserman as Professor of Architecture, part time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1993.Mr. G. Dana Brabson, Jr. as Visiting Associate Professor of Chemistry, for one semester, effective January 16, 1994.Ms. Bonny G. Bronson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Patricia Camacho as Research Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective October 1, 1993.Mr. Thomas H. Carpenter as Associate Professor of Art History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1994.Ms. Sharon E. Chilcote-Doner as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. William G. Cooper as Visiting Professor of Medical Education, for one year, effective October 1, 1993.Ms. Patricia F. Coopersmith as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Bernard J. Cosby as Research Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective October 1, 1993.Mr. Edward J. Cukauskas as Visiting Research Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective December 1, 1993.Mr. Peter T. Cummings as Visiting Professor of Chemical Engineering, for one year, effective January 1, 1994.Ms. Angela M. Davis as Lecturer in English, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Charles G. Drake as Visiting Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective November 1, 1993.Mr. Zhichu Fang as Visiting Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for the period December 1, 1993 through May 31, 1994.Mr. Marc J. Feldman as Visiting Research Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective December 1, 1993.Mr. Vladimir G. Gelnovatch as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective December 1, 1993.Dr. Ritchie P. Gillespie as Visiting Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for the period October 20, 1993 through June 30, 1995.Mr. John B. Gonnella as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period October 19, 1993 through June 30, 1995.Mr. Marvin S. Goodfriend as Visiting Professor of Economics, part time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1994.Mr. Piet C. Gugelot as Research Professor of Physics, for one year, effective June 1, 1994.Mr. Robert R. Humphris as Research Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, part time, for the period January 1, 1994 through May 31, 1994.Mr. Phillip A. Ianna as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Marylin S. James as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for one year, effective December 9, 1993.Mr. Harold B. Johnson, Jr. as Scholar-in-Residence in History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. W. Reed Johnson as Research Professor of Nuclear Engineering, part time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1994.Mr. Daniel P. Jordan as Scholar-in-Residence in History, for one academic year, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Masashi Kawasaki as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Anthony R. Kerr as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective December 1, 1993.Mr. Kwyro Lee as Visiting Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective December 1, 1993.Mr. Eric W. Lott as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Colin A. McLaurin as Research Professor of Biomedical Engineering, part time, for one year, effective July 1, 1993.Ms. Joan L. Murray as Assistant Professor, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period October 1, 1993 through June 30, 1994.Mr. Chong Mo Pak as Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective January 15, 1994.Mr. Shing-Kuo Pan as Visiting Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective December 1, 1993.Mr. Marian W. Pospieszalski as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for the period December 1, 1993 through May 31, 1994.Mr. Edwin W. Pullen as Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, part time, for the period November 1, 1993 through December 15, 1993.Mr. Fritz L. Schuermeyer as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective December 1, 1993.Mr. David W. Sedgwick as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. David E. Smith as Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective January 16, 1994.Mr. Michael A. Stroscio as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective December 1, 1993.Ms. Diane M. Tice as Visiting Associate Professor of Psychology, for one semester, effective January 16, 1994.Mr. Robert M. Umek as Assistant Professor of Biology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1994.

Promotions
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Mr. Franklin G. Miller from Instructor in Medical Education, part time, to Assistant Professor of Medical Education, part time, for one year, effective August 1, 1993.Ms. Maruta L. Ray from Associate Professor, General Faculty to Professor, General Faculty, for the period November 1, 1993 through June 30, 1996.Dr. Scott R. Vandenberg from Associate Professor of Pathology to Professor of Pathology, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. Clyde M. Watson, Jr. from Associate Professor, General Faculty to Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1993.

Leaves of Absence
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Ms. Alison Booth, Associate Professor of English, with partial pay, for the period January 16, 1994 through May 31, 1994, to accept a Virginia Foundation for the Humanities Fellowship.Mr. Vittorio Celli, Professor of Physics, without pay, for the period January 16, 1994 through May 31, 1994, to do research.Ms. Georgia H. Childress, Lecturer, General Faculty, without pay, for the period November 4, 1993 through June 30, 1994, for medical reasons.Mr. Dale C. Copeland, Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, without pay, for the period September 1, 1993 through May 31, 1994, for educational reasons.Mr. Jon C. Crocker, Professor of Anthropology, with pay, for the period October 13, 1993 through January 15, 1994, for medical reasons.Mr. Ronald D. Fischer, Assistant Professor of Economics, without pay, for the period January 16, 1994 through May 31, 1994, to do research.Mr. Arthur E. Freedlender, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, without pay, for the period June 1, 1993 through August 31, 1994, for medical reasons.Mr. Charles R. Kaut, Professor of Anthropology, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1993 through May 31, 1994, to continue to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Mr. James J. Kauzlarich, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with partial pay, for the period January 1, 1994 through May 31, 1994, to continue to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Ms. Chung-ming Lung, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, without pay, for one year, effective January 11, 1994, for modified service leave.Ms. Elizabeth A. Meyer, Assistant Professor of History, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1993 through May 31, 1994, to do research.Ms. Justine E. Owens, Research Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, without pay, for the period October 1, 1993 through November 15, 1993, for personal reasons.

Changes of Title
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Dr. Claudette E. Dalton from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Medical Education, for the period October 1, 1993 through March 31, 1993.Dr. Mark O. Daugherty from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, for one year, effective November 1, 1993.Dr. Patricia L. Foley from Instructor in Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty to Lecturer in Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective October 16, 1993.Mr. David Herman from Acting Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures to Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for the period December 1, 1993 through May 31, 1996.Mr. John W. Hiner from Lecturer in Medical Education, General Medical Faculty to Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective May 1, 1994.Ms. Adria J. LaViolette from Lecturer, Carter G. Woodson Institute to Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for four years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Jerry G. Short from Professor of Education, without term to Professor of Education, without term and Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1993.Mr. Daryl Spencer from Acting Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures to Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for the period December 1, 1993 through May 31, 1997.Ms. Magda J. Stayton from Lecturer in Medical Education, General Medical Faculty to Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective December 21, 1993.Mr. Moses K. Woode from Professor of Medical Education, without term, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without term, and Research Associate Professor of Chemistry to Professor of Medical Education, without term, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without term, and Research Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective July 1, 1993.

Resignations
------------

The following resignations were announced: Ms. Elizabeth Briguglio, Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, effective January 3, 1994, to relocate to Florida.Mr. David J. Burger, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective October 15, 1993, to accept another position.Dr. Richard M. Carpenter, Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, effective December 31, 1993, to accept another position.Mr. Ronald D. Carter, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective October 16, 1993, to accept another position.Mr. John A. Dokken, Instructor, General Faculty, effective November 30, 1993, to accept another position.Dr. Benjamin C. Grasso, Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, effective December 31, 1993, to accept another position.Mr. Max R. Harris, Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, General Medical Faculty and Lecturer in Religious Studies, effective October 31, 1993, to accept another position.Dr. Barry J. Marshall, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective November 30, 1993, to pursue other related research opportunities.Ms. Janet J. Michie, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective January 31, 1994, to pursue other interests.Dr. Shashank C. Parekh, Instructor in Radiology, General Medical Faculty, effective September 30, 1993, to accept another position.Mr. Samuel R. Swift, Lecturer in Music, effective May 31, 1993, to accept another position.Ms. Sally H. Thomas, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective December 31, 1993, to become a member of the County Board of Supervisors.

Retirements
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Robert D. Cross, Professor of History, effective May 31, 1994. Mr. Cross has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1972.Ms. Edwina H. Pancake, Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective October 1, 1993. Ms. Pancake has been a member of the faculty since November 17, 1969.

Appointments
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Ronald Flack as Chair, Department of Mechanical, Aerospace and Nuclear Engineering, for the period December 1, 1993 through June 30, 1996.Mr. David J. Hudson as Associate Vice Provost for Research, for one year, effective October 1, 1993.Dr. Rajiv Jain as Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, Salem Veterans Administration Medical Center, for three years, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. John C. Jeffries, Jr. as Academic Associate Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective January 1, 1994.Ms. Paula D. McClain as Chair, Department of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Peter L. Munger as Chief Financial Officer, Medical Center, for the period November 1, 1993 through June 30, 1997.Mr. Thomas W. Payne, Jr. as Associate Dean for External Affairs, School of Commerce, for three years, effective October 11, 1993.Ms. Daphne Spain as Interim Dean, School of Architecture, until a permanent dean is selected, effective January 1, 1994.

Re-appointments
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Jr. as University History Officer, for one year, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. Ronald A. Bouchard as Associate Vice President for Administration, for three years, effective December 1, 1993.Dr. Brian P. Conway as Chair, Department of Ophthalmology, for five years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Claudette E. Dalton as Assistant Dean of Medical Education, for the period October 1, 1993 through March 31, 1994.

Election of Professors Emeriti
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Dr. Robert M. Berne, Alumni Professor of Physiology, effective January 3, 1994.Mr. Robert D. Cross, Professor of History, effective May 31, 1994.Mr. Eugene S. McVey, Alice M. and Guy A. Wilson Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective January 15, 1994.

Election of Associate Professor Emerita
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person be and she is hereby elected Associate Professor Emerita:Ms. Edwina H. Pancake, Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective October 1, 1993.

Deaths
------

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MR. DANIEL G. CACUCI
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Mr. Daniel G. Cacuci as Distinguished Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1993, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of November 13, 1993, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Daniel G. Cacuci as Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1993.

CHANGE IN THE RESIGNATION OF MR. GEORGE J. EDWARDS
--------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the resignation of Mr. George J. Edwards, Instructor, General Faculty, effective June 30, 1993, for personal reasons, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of November 13, 1993, be changed to read as follows: Mr. George J. Edwards, Instructor, General Faculty, effective July 31, 1993, for personal reasons.

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION TO PROFESSOR EMERITUS OF MR. HAROLD S. MORTON
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election to Professor Emeritus of Mr. Harold S. Morton, Professor of Humanities, effective May 31, 1993, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of November 13, 1993, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Harold S. Morton, Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, effective May 31, 1993.

Election of Ms. Colette Capone as Vice President for Management and Budget
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Ms. Colette Capone be and she is hereby elected as Vice President for Management and Budget, for five years, effective December 1, 1993.

Election of Mr. Peter W. Low as Interim Vice President and Provost
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. Peter W. Low be and he is hereby elected as Interim Vice President and Provost, until a permanent Provost is selected, effective January 1, 1994.

Election of Ms. Polley A. McClure as Vice President for Information, Technology and Communications and Chief Information Officer
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Ms. Polley A. McClure be and she is hereby elected as Vice President for Information, Technology and Communications and Chief Information Officer, for five years, effective June 19, 1993.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HOVEY S. DABNEY EMINENT SCHOLAR PROFESSORSHIP
------------------------------------------------------------------

In proposing the adoption of a resolution creating the Hovey S. Dabney Eminent Scholar Professorship, the President paid tribute to the Rector's many years of devoted service to the University and to his interests in a number of different aspects of University life. The President then recognized members of the Rector's family and some of his business associates who were at the meeting. He thanked Mr. Kenton McCartney, President and Chief Executive Officer of Jefferson Bankshares, Inc., for the Bank's generosity in establishing the Dabney Professorship. The Chair also honors the Rector's service to the Bank and marks his retirement as President and Chief Executive Officer.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established a Chair to be known as the Hovey S. Dabney Eminent Scholar Professorship, which is to be assigned initially to the Department of Urology and to be occupied by Dr. Jay Y. Gillenwater. After Dr. Gillenwater's retirement from the University, the Chair will be assigned by the President of the University to the school or department that, in the President's judgement, can benefit most from the Chair. The Board is grateful to Jefferson Bankshares, Inc., which made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LAWRENCE LEWIS, JR., EMINENT SCHOLAR PROFESSORSHIP IN ARCHITECTURE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President proposed the adoption of a resolution creating the Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Eminent Scholar Professorship in Architecture. The Chair, the President said, is being established by friends and relatives of Mr. Lewis to honor his service to the University, service which includes sixteen years as a member of the Board of Visitors.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Architecture a Chair to be known as the Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Eminent Scholar Professorship in Architecture. The Board is grateful to Mr. Fred G. Pollard, Mrs. James L. Wiley, and the Kenan Charitable Trust who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

NAMING THE BROWN COLLEGE
------------------------

In proposing the adoption of a resolution naming the Brown College, the President thanked Mr. Brown and the members of his family whose generosity has made this possible. He reminded the Board that four successive generations of the Brown family have been educated at the University and that the family's gift is being made in honor of the first two generations, which began with Mr. Brown's grandfather, Owsley Brown, who matriculated in the College in 1896.

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Brown family of Kentucky has sent sons and daughters to be educated at the University of Virginia for four generations; andWHEREAS the Brown family has made distinguished contributions to the life of the University since the first Brown matriculated in the College in 1896; andWHEREAS W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., a member of this Board, and his family have made a substantial gift to the University to endow the residential college on Monroe Hill, the first of the University's residential colleges;THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the residential college on Monroe Hill be named The Brown College in memory of the first four members of the Brown family to study at the University: Owsley Brown, Robinson Brown, William Lee Lyons Brown and George G. Brown;FURTHER the Board of Visitors expresses its gratitude to the Brown family for this most generous gift and notes particularly that this endowment carries forth, in a direct way, the Founder's concept of the University as an academical village.

NAMING OF HEREFORD COLLEGE
--------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Frank Loucks Hereford, Jr., an alumnus of the University of Virginia, has served the University with great devotion and distinction in many ways, notably as Professor of Physics, as Provost, and as President of the University; andWHEREAS during his tenure as President, Mr. Hereford took particular interest in the concept of the residential college, nurturing this concept into the establishment of the first college, the residential college on Monroe Hill;RESOLVED that the New College will henceforth be known as the Frank L. Hereford, Jr., College, and that the University will constitute an appropriate volunteer organization to solicit endowment support for the Hereford College.

NAMING OF THE SHANNON CENTER
----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Edgar Finley Shannon, Jr., has served the University with international distinction as Professor of English and as President of the University; andWHEREAS Mr. Shannon has taken a particular interest in the Center for Advanced Studies, which he brought into being during his tenure as President of the University;RESOLVED that the Center for Advanced Studies will henceforth be known as the Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., Center for Advanced Studies, and that the University will constitute an appropriate volunteer organization to solicit endowment support for the Shannon Center.

TERM OF OFFICE OF STUDENT MEMBER
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS as provided in Section 2.21 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, the student member of the Board of Visitors is elected by the Board at its regular meeting prior to the Annual Meeting;WHEREAS the elected student member assumes office April 15 and serves until April of the next year; andWHEREAS this schedule gives little transition time for the orientation of the newly elected student member;RESOLVED that the present system and schedule for the selection of candidates and election of the student member of the Board shall remain as provided in the Manual. The term of office of the student member, however, shall continue through the subsequent Annual Meeting of the Board, with the student member-elect attending that meeting along with the incumbent student member and assuming office immediately at the conclusion of the Annual Meeting.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported on gifts, grants, and contracts. The report was accepted by the Board.

CLOSURE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF RHETORIC AND COMMUNICATION STUDIES
---------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: (Mr. Robert G. Butcher, Jr. voted in opposition to the resolution).WHEREAS the Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences has recommended that the Department of Rhetoric and Communication Studies shall be closed at the end of the academic year 1994-95; andWHEREAS the Executive Council of the Faculty Senate Committee has reviewed the report of the Faculty Senate's Program Planning Committee regarding closure of this Department and agrees that the University should proceed with closure;THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Department of Rhetoric and Communication Studies shall be closed at the end of the academic year 1994-95, and that any existing faculty appointments in the Department shall be transferred to other University departments, and that uncompleted degree work shall be supervised by these departments.FURTHER that a copy of this Resolution shall be transmitted to the State Council of Higher Education in Virginia.

APPROVAL OF THE SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE STUDENT RESIDENCE FACILITY PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the schematic design for the construction of the Student Residence Facility project as illustrated on drawings titled Site Plan; First Floor Plan; Typical Floor Plan; Front Elevation; Rear and End Elevation; Cross Section Through Site and Building, dated February 4, 1994, as prepared by Hanbury, Evans, Newell, Vlattas & Company of Norfolk, Virginia, be and it is hereby approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the project design shall be presented for review at the preliminary design level of development.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period October 1, 1993 through December 31, 1993, as presented by the Director of Audits, be and it is hereby approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA STATEMENT OF MISSION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following Statement of Mission for Clinch Valley College be and it is hereby approved, subject to the approval of the State Council of Higher Education:Founded in 1954 to serve the citizens of Southwest Virginia, Clinch Valley College is the only branch college of the University of Virginia. The College is a publicly supported baccalaureate-granting institution providing undergraduate education based in the liberal arts tradition. In the heritage of Thomas Jefferson, the primary concern is education in the liberal arts and sciences, the ultimate goal being to prepare students to be full participants in a democratic society and the world at large. The College's mission is to prepare students for lifelong learning, professional careers in fields such as business, teaching and healthcare, and graduate study by fostering development of the ideas, insights, values, competencies, and behavior of liberally educated persons.Set in the natural beauty of the central Appalachian Mountains, Clinch Valley College offers a pleasant learning environment centered on students. Most classes are small which allows faculty to give individual attention to students and to challenge them to reach for academic excellence. The College continues to build a diverse, talented, well-qualified faculty whose primary role is excellent undergraduate teaching. Creative and scholarly activities of faculty and students are also an important part of our mission because they renew teaching and learning at the highest levels.While preserving its original mission to serve the people of Southwest Virginia, the College also enrolls an increasing number of students from across the Commonwealth. Clinch Valley College serves a diverse population that includes traditional residential students, students who commute from around the region, and nontraditional students seeking lifelong learning opportunities or preparation for career changes. To better serve the citizens of Southwest Virginia and the Commonwealth, the College offers an Adult Studies and Continuing Education program and is a partner in the developing Southwest Virginia Higher Education Center in Abingdon.In its recruitment and retention of members of the College community, Clinch Valley College, consistent with its academic and institutional heritage, maintains an openness to all qualified persons.

APPOINTMENT OF MEMBER TO THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ADVISORY COUNCIL
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person be and he is hereby appointed to a term on the Clinch Valley College Advisory Council:For a term ending June 30, 1995:(Filling the unexpired term of Mr. David W. Cohen)Mr. Robert L. Johnson

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN SUMMER SESSION, CONFERENCE, AND SPECIAL PURPOSE FACILITIES RATES FOR 1994-95
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Actual 1993

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1994

TUITION

Virginian (per semester hour)

$124.00

$4.00

3.2%

$128.00

Non-Virginia (per semester hour)

$390.00

$20.00

5.1%

$410.00

Thesis/Dissertation Research

$373.00

$11.00

2.9%

$384.00

Appellate Judges Program

$1,116.00

$36.00

3.2%

$1,152.00

Non-Resident Fee

$55.00

$0.00

0.0%

$55.00

COMPREHENSIVE FEE

Newcomb Hall

$9.00

$0.00

0.0%

$9.00

Student Health

$45.00

$0.00

0.0%

$45.00

Transportation

$10.00

$0.00

0.0%

$10.00

\------

\-----

\------

TOTAL COMP. FEES

$64.00

$0.00

0.0%

$64.00

OTHER FEES

Late Payment Fee

$25.00

$0.00

0.0%

$25.00

Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee

$30.00

$5.00

16.7%

$35.00

Actual 1993

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1994

Lab Use Fee

$67.00

$2.00

2.90%

$69.00

Non Univ. of Virginia Researchers: (Per week)

Senior Investigators

n/a

n/a

n/a

$200.00

Co-Investigators

n/a

n/a

n/a

$50.00

Graduate Students

n/a

n/a

n/a

$50.00

MT LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Each person 17 years of age & older

$390.00

$0.00

0.00%

$390.00

Each Person 10-16 years of age

$250.00

$0.00

0.00%

$250.00

Eac Person 9 years of age & younger

$155.00

$0.00

0.00%

$155.00

MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Dormitories

$93.00

$3.00

3.13%

$96.00

Laing Singles

$93.00

$3.00

3.13%

$96.00

Laing Center

$129.00

$6.00

4.44%

$135.00

North

$126.00

$9.00

6.67%

$135.00

South

$126.00

$9.00

6.67%

$135.00

Northwest

$126.00

$9.00

6.67%

$135.00

West

$129.00

$6.00

4.44%

$135.00

Cottages

Hentz-Mohr

$186.00

($6.00)

\-3.33%

$180.00

With kitchen

$231.00

($6.00)

\-2.67%

$225.00

Clayton

$186.00

($6.00)

\-3.33%

$180.00

Catesby

$155.00

$25.00

13.89%

$180.00

Gattinger

$155.00

$25.00

13.89%

$180.00

Michaux

$186.00

($6.00)

\-3.33%

$180.00

With Kitchen

$231.00

($6.00)

\-2.67%

$225.00

Burns

$173.00

$7.00

3.89%

$180.00

With Kitchen

$218.00

$7.00

3.11%

$225.00

Washington

$165.00

$15.00

8.33%

$180.00

Banister

$165.00

$15.00

8.33%

$180.00

LeConte

$165.00

$15.00

8.33%

$180.00

Hariot

$165.00

$15.00

8.33%

$180.00

Schoew

$165.00

$15.00

8.33%

$180.00

Mapnis

$165.00

$15.00

8.33%

$180.00

Holbrook

$165.00

$15.00

8.33%

$180.00

Mitchell

$165.00

$15.00

8.33%

$180.00

Rafinesque

$145.00

$35.00

19.44%

$180.00

New Dorm

Singles

$100.00

$3.00

2.91%

$103.00

Apartments (two rooms)

$150.00

$5.00

3.23%

$155.00

Second Bedroom (Family)

n/a

n/a

n/a

$50.00

Actual 1993

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1994

OFF-SEASON RATES

Singles (Nightly)

n/a

n/a

n/a

$8.00

Singles (Weekly)

n/a

n/a

n/a

$40.00

Singles (Monthly)

n/a

n/a

n/a

$160.00

Family (Nightly)

n/a

n/a

n/a

$12.00

Family (Weekly)

n/a

n/a

n/a

$60.00

Family (Monthly)

n/a

n/a

n/a

$240.00

SUMMER SESSION HOUSING RATES (INCL. PHD INSTITUTE)

New College

Per Student, per week, double

$48.00

$0.00

$0.00

$48.00

Per Student, per week, single

$60.00

$0.00

$0.00

$60.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summer Session fees for the Academic Division be and they are hereby increased as follows, effective beginning with the Summer Session of 1994:Actual 1993Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1994TUITIONVirginian (per semester hour)$124.00$4.003.2%$128.00Non-Virginia (per semester hour)$390.00$20.005.1%$410.00Thesis/Dissertation Research$373.00$11.002.9%$384.00Appellate Judges Program$1,116.00$36.003.2%$1,152.00Non-Resident Fee$55.00$0.000.0%$55.00COMPREHENSIVE FEENewcomb Hall$9.00$0.000.0%$9.00Student Health$45.00$0.000.0%$45.00Transportation$10.00$0.000.0%$10.00-----------------TOTAL COMP. FEES$64.00$0.000.0%$64.00OTHER FEESLate Payment Fee$25.00$0.000.0%$25.00Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee$30.00$5.0016.7%$35.00The Summer Session registration fee and tuition rates also apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station. In addition, the following special fees apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station.Actual 1993Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1994Lab Use Fee$67.00$2.002.90%$69.00Non Univ. of Virginia Researchers: (Per week)Senior Investigatorsn/an/an/a$200.00Co-Investigatorsn/an/an/a$50.00Graduate Studentsn/an/an/a$50.00MT LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)Each person 17 years of age & older$390.00$0.000.00%$390.00Each Person 10-16 years of age$250.00$0.000.00%$250.00Eac Person 9 years of age & younger$155.00$0.000.00%$155.00MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)Dormitories$93.00$3.003.13%$96.00Laing Singles$93.00$3.003.13%$96.00Laing Center$129.00$6.004.44%$135.00North$126.00$9.006.67%$135.00South$126.00$9.006.67%$135.00Northwest$126.00$9.006.67%$135.00West$129.00$6.004.44%$135.00CottagesHentz-Mohr$186.00($6.00)-3.33%$180.00With kitchen$231.00($6.00)-2.67%$225.00Clayton$186.00($6.00)-3.33%$180.00Catesby$155.00$25.0013.89%$180.00Gattinger$155.00$25.0013.89%$180.00Michaux$186.00($6.00)-3.33%$180.00With Kitchen$231.00($6.00)-2.67%$225.00Burns$173.00$7.003.89%$180.00With Kitchen$218.00$7.003.11%$225.00Washington$165.00$15.008.33%$180.00Banister$165.00$15.008.33%$180.00LeConte$165.00$15.008.33%$180.00Hariot$165.00$15.008.33%$180.00Schoew$165.00$15.008.33%$180.00Mapnis$165.00$15.008.33%$180.00Holbrook$165.00$15.008.33%$180.00Mitchell$165.00$15.008.33%$180.00Rafinesque$145.00$35.0019.44%$180.00New DormSingles$100.00$3.002.91%$103.00Apartments (two rooms)$150.00$5.003.23%$155.00Second Bedroom (Family)n/an/an/a$50.00Actual 1993Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1994OFF-SEASON RATESSingles (Nightly)n/an/an/a$8.00Singles (Weekly)n/an/an/a$40.00Singles (Monthly)n/an/an/a$160.00Family (Nightly)n/an/an/a$12.00Family (Weekly)n/an/an/a$60.00Family (Monthly)n/an/an/a$240.00SUMMER SESSION HOUSING RATES (INCL. PHD INSTITUTE)New CollegePer Student, per week, double$48.00$0.00$0.00$48.00Per Student, per week, single$60.00$0.00$0.00$60.00OTHER: Conference housing and meal rates, Birdwood Pavilion overnight accommodation rates, International Center room rates, and other miscellaneous fees are to be approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL OF STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 1994-95 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Facility

Actual 1993-94

Room Rent

Proposed 1994-95

Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Phone/Data Services

Per Student Per Session

DORMITORIES

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Double Room

$1,694

$0

0.00%

$122

$1,816

Monroe Hill

Double Room

$2,054

$0

0.00%

$0

$2,054

McCormick Road\* \*One time adjustment to standardize local telephone and data line service charges: $122 double, $224 single. New College was used for twelve months housing in FY 1993-94 instead of Gooch/Dillard.

Double Room

$1,722

$0

0.00%

$10

$1,732

Small Double Room

$1,562

$0

0.00%

$10

$1,572

Single

$1,818

$0

0.00%

$14

$1,832

Per Day Rate

$8

$0

0.00%

$0

$8

Lawn

Small Single

$1,934

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,934

Regular Single

$1,934

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,934

Small Single (no fireplace)

$1,880

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,880

Range

Regular Single

$1,934

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,934

Crackerbox

Single Room

$1,934

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,934

Mary Munford/Roberta Gwathmey

Double Room

$1,694

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,694

Single Room

$1,934

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,934

Sprigg (Lewis/Hoxton)

Double Room

$1,934

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,934

Single Room

$2,096

$0

0.00%

$0

$2,096

Single Room (Private Bath)

$2,200

$0

0.00%

$0

$2,200

Facility

Actual 1993-94

Room Rent

Proposed 1994-95

Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Phone/Data Services

Per Student Per Session

Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)\*

Double Room

$2,046

$0.00

0.00%

$10

$2,056

Single Room

$2,306

$0.00

0.00%

$14

$2,320

TWELVE MONTH RATE:

Double Room

N/A

N/A

N/A

$0

N/A

Single Room

N/A

N/A

N/A

$224

$3,289

New College\*

Double Room

$2,170

$0.00

0.00%

($10)

$2,160

Single Room

$2,328

$0.00

0.00%

($40)

$2,288

French House

Triple Room

$1,872

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,872

Double Room

$1,976

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,976

Single Room

$2,184

$0

0.00%

$0

$2,184

German House

Single Room

$1,870

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,870

Russia House

Double Room

$1,870

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,870

Single Room

$2,090

$0

0.00%

$0

$2,090

Spanish House

Two Bedroom

$2,004

$0

0.00%

$0

$2,004

Copeley Hill Phase III & IV, Brandon, Lambeth Field

Two Bedroom

$2,004

$0

0.00%

$0

$2,004

Three Bedroom

$1,924

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,924

Faulkner (Hench/Mitchell/Younger)

Double

$2,080

$0

0.00%

$0

$2,080

Single

$2,176

$0

0.00%

$0

$2,176

Large Single

$2,704

$0

0.00%

$0

$2,704

Facility

Actual 1993-94

Room Rent

Proposed 1994-95

Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Phone/Data Services

Per Student Per Session

APARTMENTS - FAMILY

Copeley Hill Phases I & II

One Bedroom

$422

$0

0.00%

$0

$422

Two Bedroom

$468

$0

0.00%

$0

$468

Three Bedroom

$505

$0

0.00%

$0

$505

University Gardens

One Bedroom

$408

$0

0.00%

$0

$408

Two Bedroom

$443

$0

0.00%

$0

$443

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that rental increases for student housing facilities be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective beginning with the Session 1994-95:FacilityActual 1993-94Room RentProposed 1994-95Per Student Per SessionAmount of IncreasePercent IncreasePhone/Data ServicesPer Student Per SessionDORMITORIESAlderman/Observatory HousesDouble Room$1,694$00.00%$122$1,816Monroe HillDouble Room$2,054$00.00%$0$2,054McCormick Road\* \*One time adjustment to standardize local telephone and data line service charges: $122 double, $224 single. New College was used for twelve months housing in FY 1993-94 instead of Gooch/Dillard. Double Room$1,722$00.00%$10$1,732Small Double Room$1,562$00.00%$10$1,572Single$1,818$00.00%$14$1,832Per Day Rate$8$00.00%$0$8LawnSmall Single$1,934$00.00%$0$1,934Regular Single$1,934$00.00%$0$1,934Small Single (no fireplace)$1,880$00.00%$0$1,880RangeRegular Single$1,934$00.00%$0$1,934CrackerboxSingle Room$1,934$00.00%$0$1,934Mary Munford/Roberta GwathmeyDouble Room$1,694$00.00%$0$1,694Single Room$1,934$00.00%$0$1,934Sprigg (Lewis/Hoxton)Double Room$1,934$00.00%$0$1,934Single Room$2,096$00.00%$0$2,096Single Room (Private Bath)$2,200$00.00%$0$2,200FacilityActual 1993-94Room RentProposed 1994-95Per Student Per SessionAmount of IncreasePercent IncreasePhone/Data ServicesPer Student Per SessionStadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)\*Double Room$2,046$0.000.00%$10$2,056Single Room$2,306$0.000.00%$14$2,320TWELVE MONTH RATE:Double RoomN/AN/AN/A$0N/ASingle RoomN/AN/AN/A$224$3,289New College\*Double Room$2,170$0.000.00%($10)$2,160Single Room$2,328$0.000.00%($40)$2,288French HouseTriple Room$1,872$00.00%$0$1,872Double Room$1,976$00.00%$0$1,976Single Room$2,184$00.00%$0$2,184German HouseSingle Room$1,870$00.00%$0$1,870Russia HouseDouble Room$1,870$00.00%$0$1,870Single Room$2,090$00.00%$0$2,090Spanish HouseTwo Bedroom$2,004$00.00%$0$2,004APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENTCopeley Hill Phase III & IV, Brandon, Lambeth FieldTwo Bedroom$2,004$00.00%$0$2,004Three Bedroom$1,924$00.00%$0$1,924Faulkner (Hench/Mitchell/Younger)Double$2,080$00.00%$0$2,080Single$2,176$00.00%$0$2,176Large Single$2,704$00.00%$0$2,704FacilityActual 1993-94Room RentProposed 1994-95Per Student Per SessionAmount of IncreasePercent IncreasePhone/Data ServicesPer Student Per SessionAPARTMENTS - FAMILYCopeley Hill Phases I & IIOne Bedroom$422$00.00%$0$422Two Bedroom$468$00.00%$0$468Three Bedroom$505$00.00%$0$505University GardensOne Bedroom$408$00.00%$0$408Two Bedroom$443$00.00%$0$443

One time adjustment to standardize local telephone and data line service charges: $122 double, $224 single. New College was used for twelve months housing in FY 1993-94 instead of Gooch/Dillard.

APPROVAL OF MARKET ADJUSTMENT STIPENDS FOR HOUSESTAFF
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS legislation enacted by the 1990 General Assembly authorized the Board of Visitors to establish competitive compensation programs for Health Care Professionals, including Housestaff employed in the University of Virginia Medical Center; andWHEREAS the results of the annual survey conducted by the Council of Teaching Hospitals (COTH) which serves as the basis for establishing Housestaff stipends at the University of Virginia Medical Center was received recently; andWHEREAS the survey results support a modest adjustment to the stipends paid to Housestaff to permit the University of Virginia Medical Center to maintain its objective of paying stipends which are at or near the 50th percentile of state-owned teaching hospitals;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the accompanying Market Adjustment Stipends for Housestaff (Attachment A), be and they are hereby approved, subject to the concurrence of the Secretary of Education of the Commonwealth of Virginia, to become effective on or after February 1, 1994.

RESOLUTION TO ESTABLISH A MANAGED HEALTH CARE PROGRAM IN CENTRAL VIRGINIA
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation (the "Foundation"), in conjunction with Novalis Corporation, has conducted a study of a proposed managed health care program in Central Virginia;WHEREAS the study and external review provide information suggesting that a health care entity be incorporated that will offer a managed care product in the region, in conjunction with other health care organizations, physicians, and other providers;WHEREAS an affiliate of Novalis Corporation, Health Networks of America, Inc., can make available through a license agreement the Novalis Program, consisting of materials and services to create and operate a managed care entity of the type contemplated by the study;WHEREAS it is proposed that the University and the Foundation jointly form a new for-profit corporation to offer the managed care product and to enter into a license agreement with Health Networks of America, Inc. for the Novalis Program, subject to terms acceptable to the University and the Foundation;RESOLVED that the University participate with the Foundation in establishing a for-profit corporation to offer a managed care product using the Novalis Program under license agreement with Health Networks of America, Inc., subject to the negotiation of terms in that agreement acceptable to the University;FURTHER RESOLVED that the University join with the Foundation on an equal basis to invest the funds needed to capitalize the corporation, provided that the University's share of such investment does not exceed $4.55 million, and that the University receive in return governance rights and shares of stock commensurate with its investment, while protecting the University and the Commonwealth from responsibility for the debts or other obligations of the corporation.FURTHER RESOLVED that the Foundation's involvement in creation and ownership of the for-profit corporation described in this resolution is approved pursuant to Section II.C of the Policy on University-Related Foundations.FURTHER RESOLVED that the Rector form a special committee consisting of at least the Chair of the Finance Committee and the Chair of the Health Affairs Committee, as well as others, who are authorized to decide the actual amount of funds to be invested by the University, the sources of those funds, the governance structure of the for-profit corporation, the terms of the license agreement, the terms of a joint venture agreement between the University and the Foundation, and any other matters necessary to protect the interests of the University.FURTHER RESOLVED that the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences report periodically and at least annually to the Board of Visitors on the creation and operation of the managed care corporation.

REPORT ON THE ACTIONS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON JANUARY 5, 1994
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the following actions of the Executive Committee on January 5, 1994:

(a) Managerial Flexibility and Autonomy Proposal for the Medical Center

(b) Ratification of Resolutions from the Buildings and Grounds Committee Meeting on December 7, 1993

 Preplanning Study, Miller Hall Renovation

 Preplanning Study, Clinch Valley College Intercollegiate Football and Baseball Fields

 Schematic Design, Mountain Lake Biological Station Aquatics Laboratory

 Siting and Architectural Design Guidelines, Clinch Valley College Student Residence Facility

 Siting and Architectural Design Guidelines, Law School Renovation

REALLOCATION OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BOND AUTHORIZATION FROM THE LIBRARY STORAGE FACILITY PROJECT TO THE MINOR HALL PROJECT
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Chapters 894 and 896 of the 1992 Virginia Acts of Assembly (the "Act") authorize the issuance of general obligation bonds pursuant to Section 9(b) of Article X of the Constitution of Virginia (the "Bonds"), which Act became effective upon an affirmative vote of a majority of voters voting thereon on November 3, 1992; andWHEREAS Section 2 of the Act provides that the proceeds of the Bonds shall be used for certain projects for the University of Virginia, including projects entitled "Improvements to Halsey Hall, Minor Hall and Old Cabell Hall (14489)" in the amount of $4,610,900 (the "Renovation Project") and "Construction of a Library Storage Facility (14072)" in the amount of $2,679,000 (the "Construction Project"); andWHEREAS project budgets for the Renovation Project and the Construction Project have been received and duly reviewed, with the project budget for the Construction Project lower than originally budgeted and the project budget for the Renovation Project higher than originally budgeted; andWHEREAS Section 2 of the Act permits the governing board of an institution to request that the Governor or his designee increase or decrease the allocation to any capital project for such institution, within the total amount allocated for such institution; andWHEREAS Executive Order Number Sixty (92), executed by the Governor December 21, 1992, delegates to the Director of the Department of Planning and Budget the powers and duties conferred to the Governor pursuant to Sections 2 and 9 of the Acts:NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia requests that the Director of the Department of Planning and Budget decrease the allocation for the Construction Project by $177,000, and increase the allocation for the Renovation Project by $177,000, pursuant to Section 2 of the Act.

On motion, the meeting recessed at 4:45 p.m., on Friday, February 4, 1994, and reconvened at 10:00 a.m., on Saturday, February 5, 1994, and on motion adjourned at 10:15 a.m.

AGG:jb

ATTACHMENT A HOUSESTAFF STIPENDS
--------------------------------

POST MD YEAR

UVA CURRENT SALARY

PROPOSED SALARY

1

27,071

27,883

2

28,579

29,436

3

30,091

30,994

4

31,417

32,360

5

33,107

34,100

6

34,664

35,704

HOUSESTAFF STIPENDS POST MD YEAR UVA CURRENT SALARY PROPOSED SALARY 1 27,071 27,883 2 28,579 29,436 3 30,091 30,994 4 31,417 32,360 5 33,107 34,100 6 34,664 35,704

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: February 5, 1994

CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 2

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 2

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

absent

Mortimer M. Caplin

absent

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

yes

Daniel A. Hoffler

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

yes

Albert H. Small

yes

Chris A. Howe

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Saturday, February 5, 1994 a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAME VOTE (yes or no) COMMENTS W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr. yes Robert G. Butcher, Jr. absent Mortimer M. Caplin absent N. Thomas Connally yes Hovey S. Dabney yes Warner N. Dalhouse yes Daniel A. Hoffler yes J. Thomas Hulvey yes Evans B. Jessee yes Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge yes Arnold H. Leon yes Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. yes Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie yes Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr. yes S. Buford Scott yes Albert H. Small yes Chris A. Howe yes