Board of Visitors minutes (1994) April 8, 1994
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 8, 1994

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

TENTATIVE - SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA April 8-9, 1994
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 1:00 p.m., on Friday, April 8, 1994, in the Board Room of Alumni Hall with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, Franklin K. Birckhead, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Ms. Chris A. Howe, Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, and Albert H. Small. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Don E. Detmer, Ernest H. Ern, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Robert T. Canevari, L. Jay Lemons, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 10:15 a.m., on Saturday, April 9, 1994, in the Board Room of Alumni Hall with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Franklin K. Birckhead, Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Chris A. Howe, Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, and Albert H. Small. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Don E. Detmer, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, Robert T. Canevari, L. Jay Lemons, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of February 4-5, 1994, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

INTRODUCTION OF NEW BOARD MEMBERS
---------------------------------

The Rector introduced the four new members of the Board: Mr. Franklin K. Birckhead, Dr. Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Ms. Elsie G. Holland, and Mr. C. Wilson McNeely, III.

APPRECIATION TO THE RETIRING MEMBERS OF THE BOARD
-------------------------------------------------

The Rector expressed appreciation for the services of Dr. J. Thomas Hulvey, Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Mr. Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., and Mr. S. Buford Scott, who have served the University with great distinction during their terms of service on the Board.

ELECTION OF THE RECTOR
----------------------

In accordance with the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1991, and in compliance with the provisions of the Code of Virginia, Section 23-74, Mr. Hovey S. Dabney was unanimously elected as the Rector of the University of Virginia, for a four-year term.

ELECTION TO FILL VACANCY ON THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
---------------------------------------------------

In accordance with the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1991, and in compliance with the Code of Virginia, Section 23-75, Mr. C. Wilson McNeely, III, was elected to serve on the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors until the Annual Meeting in June 1994.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEES HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEFINANCE COMMITTEEBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEEEXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the Standing Committees to serve until the Annual Meeting in June 1994. The Committee assignments are as follows: HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEN. Thomas Connally, ChairMortimer M. CaplinCharles M. Caravati, Jr.Evans B. JesseeC. Wilson McNeely, IIIElizabeth D. Morie FINANCE COMMITTEERobert G. Butcher, Jr., ChairW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.Mortimer M. CaplinWarner N. DalhouseArnold H. LeonC. Wilson McNeely, III BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEElizabeth D. Morie, ChairDaniel A. HofflerElsie Goodwyn HollandChris A. HoweEvans B. JesseeAlbert H. Small STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., ChairFranklin K. BirckheadRobert G. Butcher, Jr.Daniel A. HofflerElsie Goodwyn HollandChris A. HowePatricia M. Kluge EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEMortimer M. Caplin, ChairCharles M. Caravati, Jr.N. Thomas ConnallyDaniel A. HofflerElsie Goodwyn HollandChris A. HowePatricia M. Kluge AUDIT COMMITTEEAlbert H. Small, ChairFranklin K. BirckheadArnold H. LeonElizabeth D. Morie EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEEArnold H. Leon, ChairFranklin K. BirckheadW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.Charles M. Caravati, Jr.Warner N. DalhousePatricia M. Kluge

The Rector, Mr. Hovey S. Dabney, is an ex officio member of all Committees.

APPOINTMENT OF NON-VOTING STUDENT MEMBER TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
-----------------------------------------------------------------

On motion of Mr. W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Chair of the Special Committee on Nominating a Non-Voting Student on the Board of Visitors, the Board elected Ms. Allison Sims Linney as a non-voting student member of the Board of Visitors for the period June 10, 1994 through April 15, 1995, as prescribed in Section 2.21 of the Manual.

ELECTION OF MR. ALEXANDER G. GILLIAM, JR., AS SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In accordance with the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1991, and in compliance with the Code of Virginia, Section 23-74, Mr. Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., was elected as Secretary to the Board of Visitors, for a term of four years.

APPROVAL OF MEETING DATES FOR 1995
----------------------------------

Friday and Saturday February 3-4, 1994

Charlottesville

Friday and Saturday April 7-8, 1995

Charlottesville

Friday and Saturday June 9-10, 1995

Charlottesville

Friday and Saturday November 10-11, 1995

Charlottesville

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following dates for the 1995 meetings of the Board are approved:Friday and Saturday February 3-4, 1994CharlottesvilleFriday and Saturday April 7-8, 1995CharlottesvilleFriday and Saturday June 9-10, 1995CharlottesvilleFriday and Saturday November 10-11, 1995Charlottesville

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all Visitors present:

(a) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of The Code of Virginia.

(b) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of considering the appointment of a student member to the Board of Visitors in accordance with Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of The Code of Virginia.

(c) That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending and potential litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(7) of The Code of Virginia.

Following Committee meetings and a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session of the full Board resumed at 10:15 a.m., on Saturday, April 9, 1994.

Elections
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Marwan Khalid Al-Shawi as Assistant Professor of Research in Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, for one year, effective January 1, 1994.Ms. Elaine M. Banner as Affiliate Librarian, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for one year, effective February 16, 1994.Mr. Malcolm W. Cole as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period January 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995.Mr. Timothy J. Conlon as Lecturer in Neurosurgery, General Faculty, for one year, effective February 21, 1994.Mr. Jeff R. Crandall as Research Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for one year, effective February 1, 1994.Dr. Laurie L. Fajardo as Associate Professor of Radiology, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. Yu Feng as Lecturer in History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1994.Ms. Cheryl L. Gomez as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period March 1, 1994 through June 30, 1996.Ms. Sandee S. Kerbel as Associate Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period March 16, 1994 through June 30, 1997.Ms. Lois C. Knowles as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective February 28, 1994.Ms. Laura S. Larew as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective October 4, 1993.Ms. Wendeline R. Lathrop as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective January 6, 1994.Mr. Stephen Y. Maupin as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period January 1, 1994 through June 30, 1996.Mr. Philip F. McEldowney as Affiliate Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for one year, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. Amit Mitra as Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1994.Dr. Charles E. Myers, Jr. as Professor of Internal Medicine, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. John A. Owen as Lecturer in Medical Education, General Faculty, for the period December 1, 1993 through June 30, 1994.Mr. Richard A. Patterson as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period January 1, 1994 through June 30, 1996.Mr. Don E. Payne as Instructor in Orthopaedics, General Faculty, for one year, effective February 25, 1994.Dr. Cara B. Siegel as Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, for one year, effective February 1, 1994.Mr. John W. Snell as Assistant Professor of Research in Neurosurgery, for one year, effective October 1, 1993.Mr. James R. Taylor as Lecturer in Family Medicine, General Faculty, for one year, effective January 31, 1994.Dr. Gregory C. Townsend as Instructor in Medical Education in Internal Medicine, for the period January 1, 1994 through June 30, 1994.

Election of Part-Time Faculty
-----------------------------

Election of Non-Salaried Faculty
--------------------------------

Election of Clinical Faculty
----------------------------

Actions Relating to Chairholders
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of Chairholder (s)Mr. Kenneth S. Abraham as John V. Ray Research Professor of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1994. Mr. Abraham will continue as Class of 1962 Professor of Law, without term.Mr. Alex M. Johnson as Mary and Daniel Loughran Professor of Law, effective July 1, 1994. Mr. Johnson will continue as Harrison Foundation Research Professor of Law through June 30, 1995.Ms. Pamela S. Karlan as Roy L. and Rosamond Woodruff Morgan Professor of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1994. Ms. Karlan will continue as Professor of Law, without term.Mr. Robert H. Kretsinger as Commonwealth Professor of Biology, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. Jeffrey O'Connell as Class of 1948 Professor of Scholarly Research in Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1994. Mr. O'Connell will continue as Samuel H. McCoy, II Professor of Law, without term.Mr. Edgar A. Starke, Jr. as University Professor, effective July 1, 1994. Mr. Starke will continue as Earnest Jackson Oglesby Professor of Materials Science, without term.Mr. G. Edward White as E. James Kelly, Jr. Research Professor of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1994. Mr. White will continue as John Barbee Minor Professor of Law and History and University Professor, without term.(b) Leaves of Absence of Chairholder(s)Mr. Paul E. Allaire, Mac Wade Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, with partial pay, for the period April 1, 1994 through May 31, 1994, for administrative action.Mr. Edwin Burmeister, Commonwealth Professor of Economics, without pay, for the period September 1, 1994 through January 16, 1995, to do research.(c) Changes of Title of Chairholder(s)Mr. Irving I. Gottesman from Commonwealth Professor of Psychology to Sherrell J. Aston Professor of Psychology, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. Saul Levmore from Class of 1962 Professor of Law to Brokaw Professor of Corporate Law, effective July 1, 1994. Mr. Levmore will continue as Barron F. Black Research Professor of Law through June 30, 1995.Mr. Glen O. Robinson from John C. Stennis Professor of Law to David A. Harrison Professor of Law, effective July 1, 1994. Mr. Robinson will continue as Albert Clark Tate, Jr. Professor of Law, through June 30, 1995.Mr. George A. Rutherglen from John Allan Love Professor of Law to O.M. Vicars Professor of Law, effective June 30, 1994.(d) Retirements of Chairholder(s)

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Elmer L. Gaden, Wills Johnson Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective May 31, 1994. Mr. Gaden has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1979.Mr. John A. Hetherington, David A. Harrison Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1994. Mr. Hetherington has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1971.Mr. Daniel J. Meador, James Monroe Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1994. Mr. Meador has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1957.Mr. Walter H. Sokel, Commonwealth Professor of German and English Literature, effective May 31, 1994. Mr. Sokel has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1973.Mr. Calvin Woodard, Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1994. Mr. Woodard has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1965.(e) Appointments of Chairholder

The following appointments were announced: Mr. K. Edward Lay as Associate Dean for Students, School of Architecture, until a permanent Dean has been selected, effective January 1, 1994.

Re-elections
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Ms. Ann R. Antrobus as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period March 1, 1994 through June 30, 1999.Mr. Timothy P. Bender as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for the period January 1, 1994 through June 30, 1994.Mr. Richard F. Bradley as Visiting Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for the period January 16, 1994 through May 31, 1995.Mr. John K. Brown as Assistant Professor of Technology, Culture and Communication, for the period September 1, 1994 through May 31, 1997.Mr. Reginald D. Butler as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. George L. Cahen as Professor of Engineering Education and Materials Science, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Vincent C. Cibbarelli as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Thomas W. Crowe as Research Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Angela M. Davis as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Sarah P. Farrell as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Erik J. Fernandez as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Enrique Galarza as Visiting Scholar in Economics, for the period March 1, 1994 through September 30, 1994.Mr. Laurin L. Henry as Scholar-in-Residence, Center for Public Service, for one year, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. Robert E. Ireland as Research Professor of Chemistry, for the period January 16, 1994 through May 31, 1994.Dr. David M. Kahler as Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics, for three years, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. Carl R. Knospe as Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Roland H. Krauss as Research Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Hugh S. Landes as Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, part time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1994.Mr. Kevin S. Lee as Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. Tan Lin as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Franklin G. Miller as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, for one year, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. Philip M. Nowlen as Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. Todd E. Peterson as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. John H. Porter as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period February 1, 1994 through October 31, 1994.Ms. Betty H. Sapir as Assistant Professor of French, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Mark M. Schimmenti as Associate Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Timothy Scott as Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. David M. Seaman as Assistant Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period June 1, 1994 through June 30, 1997.Ms. Charlene M. Sedgwick as Professor of English, General Faculty, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Janet E. Steele as Assistant Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Michael A. Stern as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Ronald J. Stump as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Sybil R. Todd as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Franklin E. Wawner as Research Professor of Materials Science, for five years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Rebecca W. West as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, for one year, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. Daniel A. Westberg as Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Adam Yarinsky as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Richard E. Zody as Visiting Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1994.

Leaves of Absence
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Reginald D. Butler, Assistant Professor of History, without pay, for the period September 1, 1993 through May 31, 1994, for personal reasons.Ms. Betsy R. Carr, Lecturer in the Teaching Resource Center, without pay, for the period October 13, 1993 through January 15, 1994, for modified service leave.Mr. Jon C. Crocker, Professor of Anthropology, with pay, for the period January 16, 1994 through April 12, 1994, for medical reasons.Mr. Amod V. Dandawate, Lecturer in Electrical Engineering, with partial pay, for the period December 1, 1993 through January 31, 1994, for personal reasons.Ms. Bella M. De Paulo, Professor of Psychology, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1994 through May 31, 1995, to do research as part of a sesquicentennial award.Mr. Alastair D. Fowler, Professor of English, without pay, for the period January 16, 1995 through May 31, 1995, to do research.Ms. Eileen M. Hetherington, James M. Page Professor of Psychology, with partial pay, for one year, effective January 16, 1994, to do research.Ms. Beth C. Hodsdon, Lecturer, General Faculty, with pay, for the period December 2, 1993 through December 22, 1993, for adoption leave.Mr. David B. Lawall, Associate Professor of Art History, without pay, for the period September 1, 1994 through January 15, 1995, to do research.Ms. Alice L. Mason, Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, with partial pay, for one year, effective January 1, 1994, for educational purposes.Dr. John A. Owen, Jr., Professor of Internal Medicine, with partial pay, for one year, effective January 1, 1994, to continue to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Dr. Jayashree S. Parekh, Assistant Professor of Radiology, with pay, for the period September 1, 1993 through February 28, 1994, to accept a fellowship.Mr. Mantripragada B. Sankaram, Assistant Professor of Research in Biochemistry, without pay, for the period February 1, 1994 through August 31, 1994, for educational purposes.Ms. Annette D. Selinger, Instructor in Plastic Surgery, General Medical Faculty, with pay, for the period January 3, 1994 through January 23, 1994, for adoption leave.Ms. Annette D. Selinger, Instructor in Plastic Surgery, General Medical Faculty, without pay, for the period January 24, 1994 through February 14, 1994, for adoption leave.Ms. Sheri A. Tratnack, Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, without pay, for the period January 16, 1994 through May 31, 1994, for educational purposes.Ms. Susan E. Tulis, Associate Professor, General Faculty, without pay, for the period March 16, 1994 through June 30, 1994, to continue appointment with the American Association of Law Libraries.

Changes of Title
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Barry E. Adler from Visiting Associate Professor of Law to Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Colin C. Angliker from Associate Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, Southwestern Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, for two years, effective March 1, 1994.Mr. William S. Ballas from Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty to Lecturer in Neurosurgery, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1993.Mr. Eliot Borenstein from Acting Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures to Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for the period January 14, 1994 through May 31, 1997.Dr. Lisa C. Campfens from Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Instructor in Clinical Emergency Medicine, for the period January 1, 1994 through June 30, 1994.Dr. Charles T. Carter from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period January 1, 1994 through June 30, 1996.Mr. Jiande Chen from Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. Young Hoon Chung from Visiting Scholar in Materials Science to Visiting Research Assistant Professor of Materials Science, part time, for the period January 1, 1994 through August 31, 1994.Ms. Sandra R. Ciocci from Acting Assistant Professor, General Faculty to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective January 1, 1994.Dr. William W. Douglas from Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, Catawba to Clinical Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, for two years, effective February 1, 1994.Mr. Zhichu Fang from Visiting Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering to Research Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for the period January 1, 1994 through May 31, 1994.Dr. Andrew T. Guertler from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period January 1, 1994 through June 30, 1996.Mr. Lynwood F. Harding from Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Medicine to Assistant Professor of Medical Education in Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective December 1, 1993.Mr. Paul L. Hundley from Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, Western State to Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, for two years, effective March 1, 1994.Dr. Daria Kiselica from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective February 1, 1994.Ms. Angela F. Koogler from Lecturer in Pathology, General Medical Faculty to Lecturer in Pathology, General Faculty, for one year, effective February 1, 1994.Dr. Thomas P. Kuhlmann from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine, for the period January 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995.Dr. George H. Lindbeck from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine, for the period January 1, 1994 through June 30, 1994.Ms. Carol A. Manning from Assistant Professor of Neurology, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, for one year, effective February 1, 1994.Mr. Drake C. Mitchell from Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry to Assistant Professor of Research in Biochemistry, for one year, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. Michael Nicholaou from Lecturer in Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty to Lecturer in Neurosurgery, General Faculty, for one year, effective January 1, 1994.Dr. Robert D. Powers from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine, for the period January 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995.Mr. Mantripragada B. Sankaram from Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry to Assistant Professor of Research in Biochemistry, for one year, effective February 1, 1994.Dr. Robert A. Schwab from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine, for the period January 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995.Mr. Jiri Sklenar from Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for three years, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. John P. Slattery from Research Associate Professor of Psychiatric Medicine to Associate Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine, for the period January 15, 1994 through September 30, 1994.Dr. Edward M. Spencer from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for the period January 1, 1994 through June 30, 1994.Dr. Scott A. Syverud from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, for the period January 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995.Mr. George G. Triantis from Visiting Assistant Professor of Law to Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. David G. White from Lecturer in Religious Studies to Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for four years, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Birgit Winther from Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Clinical Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, for the period February 1, 1994 through June 30, 1994.Mr. Chenggui Zhang from Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Research in Pharmacology, for the period January 1, 1994 through April 21, 1994.

Resignations
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Martin H. Altschul, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective March 1, 1994, to accept another position.Dr. Debra A. Angello, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective January 3, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Gregory M. Cline, Instructor, General Medical Center Faculty, effective February 28, 1994, to accept another position.Dr. Nicholette L. Erickson, Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective March 31, 1994, to accept another position.Ms. Jonquil D. Feldman, Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, effective February 28, 1994, for personal reasons.Dr. William E. Gross, Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, effective February 28, 1994, to enter private practice.Ms. Melvina P. Hamilton, Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, effective January 31, 1994, to accept another position.Ms. Nancy S. Luttrell, Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, effective February 2, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. David D. Makel, Research Assistant Professor of Materials Science, effective February 28, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Michael S. McDaniel, Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, effective January 9, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Bruce H. Palmer, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective January 31, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. David L. Puckett, Lecturer in Photography, effective January 15, 1994, to accept another position.Ms. Ann L. Smith, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective February 16, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Wilton C. Wilkins, Instructor, General Faculty, effective January 31, 1994, to accept another position.

Retirements
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Ms. Barbara A. Graham, Associate Professor of Nursing, effective August 31, 1994. Ms. Graham has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1971.Ms. Mary A. Gunter, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective June 30, 1994. Ms. Gunter has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1979.Mr. Robert R. Humphris, Research Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, effective December 31, 1993. Mr. Humphris has been a member of the faculty since April 1, 1954.Dr. Hans O. Riddervold, Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1994. Dr. Riddervold has been a member of the faculty since November 20, 1967.Mr. Rafael Rubio, Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, effective June 30, 1994. Mr. Rubio has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1969.Mr. Richard T. Selden, Professor of Economics, effective May 31, 1994. Mr. Selden has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1969.Mr. John W. Stewart, Associate Professor of Physics, effective May 31, 1994. Mr. Stewart has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1956.

Appointments
------------

The following appointments were announced: Ms. Ann R. Antrobus as University Registrar, for the period March 1, 1994 through June 30, 1999.Mr. Ronald A. Bouchard as Chief Administrative Officer, University of Virginia Medical Center, for the period February 1, 1994 through November 30, 1996.Mr. Michael H. Chase-Levenson as Acting Chair, Department of English, for one year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Harry Y. Gamble as Acting Chair, Department of Religious Studies, for the period January 16, 1994 through May 31, 1994.Ms. Judith Shatin as Chair, Department of Music, for three years, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Sondra F. Stallard as Executive Assistant to the President, for five years, effective February 7, 1994.

Re-appointments
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. George L. Cahen as Assistant Dean for Graduate Programs, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for two years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Angela M. Davis as Assistant Dean of Students, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Lynn A. Davis as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Bernard D. Mayes as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Marita P. McClymonds as Chair, Department of Music, for one year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. James J. Mingle as General Counsel, for five years, effective March 1, 1994.Mr. Philip M. Nowlen as Dean, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective January 1, 1994.Mr. William J. Randolph as Associate Dean for Finance, for three years, effective April 1, 1994.Mr. Kenneth A. Schwartz as Chair, Department of Architecture, for five years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. V. Shamim Sisson as Assistant Dean of Students, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Patricia M. Spacks as Chair, Department of English, for the period September 1, 1994 through June 30, 1997.Mr. Ronald J. Stump as Associate Dean of Students, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Sybil R. Todd as Associate Dean of Students, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Vasti Torres as Assistant Dean of Students, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.

Election of Professors Emeriti
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeriti:Mr. Elmer L. Gaden, Wills Johnson Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective May 31, 1994.Mr. John A. Hetherington, David A. Harrison Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1994.Mr. Daniel J. Meador, James Monroe Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1994.Dr. Hans O. Riddervold, Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1994.Mr. Rafael Rubio, Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, effective June 30, 1994.Mr. Richard T. Selden, Professor of Economics, effective May 31, 1994.Mr. Walter H. Sokel, Commonwealth Professor of German and English Literature, effective May 31, 1994.Mr. John W. Stewart, Associate Professor of Physics, effective May 31, 1994.Mr. Calvin Woodard, Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1994.

Election of Associate Professors Emeriti
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Associate Professor Emeritus:Ms. Barbara A. Graham, Associate Professor of Nursing, effective August 31, 1994.Ms. Mary A. Gunter, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective June 30, 1994.

CHANGE IN THE RESIGNATION OF MR. DENNIS W. BARNES
-------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the resignation of Mr. Dennis W. Barnes, Professor, General Faculty, effective June 2, 1992, to accept another position, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of November 13, 1993, be changed to read as follows: Mr. Dennis W. Barnes, Professor, General Faculty, effective June 2, 1993, to accept another position.

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF CHAIRHOLDER OF DR. FRITZ E. DREIFUSS
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Dr. Fritz E. Dreifuss, as Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Research Professor of Epileptology and Neurology, effective November 16, 1993, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of February 1, 1994, be changed to read as follows:Dr. Fritz E. Dreifuss as Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Eminent Scholars Research Professor of Epileptology and Neurology, effective November 16, 1993.

CHANGE IN THE RE-APPOINTMENT OF MR. WILLIAM A. JESSER
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the re-appointment of Mr. William A. Jesser as Chair, Department of Materials Science and Engineering, for two years, effective January 1, 1994, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of February 4, 1994, be changed to read as follows:Mr. William A. Jesser as Chair, Department of Materials Science and Engineering, for two years, effective January 1, 1995.

CHANGE IN THE CHANGE OF TITLE OF DR. MONICA C. LOBO
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the change of title of Dr. Monica C. Lobo from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1993, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of November 13, 1993, be changed to read as follows:Dr. Monica C. Lobo from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Clinical Family Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1993.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEElections
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Russell D. Necessary as Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, for the period January 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995.Ms. Jean S. Patton as Assistant Professor of Nursing, Clinch Valley College, for the period January 17, 1994 through May 31, 1995.Ms. Sheila K. Rinehart as Assistant Professor of Nursing, Clinch Valley College, for the period January 24, 1994 through May 31, 1995.Ms. Cory I. Rosenkranz as Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, for two years, effective January 1, 1994.

CHANGE IN THE RETIREMENT OF MS. LILLIAN B. HUTZLER
--------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the retirement of Ms. Lillian B. Hutzler, Associate Professor of Biology, Clinch Valley College, effective January 1, 1994, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of November 13, 1993, be changed to read as follows: Ms. Lillian B. Hutzler, Associate Professor of Biology, Clinch Valley College, effective December 31, 1993.

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION TO ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUS OF MS. LILLIAN B. HUTZLER
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election to Associate Professor Emeritus of Ms. Lillian B. Hutzler, Associate Professor of Biology, Clinch Valley College, effective January 1, 1994, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of November 13, 1993, be changed to read as follows:Ms. Lillian B. Hutzler, Associate Professor Emeritus, Clinch Valley College, effective December 31, 1993.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DAVID LURTON MASSEE, JR., PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Law a Chair to be known as the David Lurton Massee, Jr., Professorship in Law. The Board is grateful to the late Mr. D. Lurton Massee, Jr., who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HEINZ AND DORIS WILSDORF DISTINGUISHED RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN MATERIALS SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Engineering and Applied Science a Chair to be known as the Heinz and Doris Wilsdorf Research Professorship in Materials Science and Engineering. The Board is grateful to Heinz G. and Doris Wilsdorf who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

THE WELDON COOPER CENTER FOR PUBLIC SERVICE
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Weldon Cooper joined the faculty of the University of Virginia in 1947, and at the same time began his association with what was then called the Bureau of Public Administration, later the Institute of Government, and more recently the Center for Public Service; andWHEREAS Weldon Cooper's devoted service to the University and to the Commonwealth, particularly in assisting local and municipal governments throughout Virginia, earned him the gratitude of a generation of Governors and state and local officials;RESOLVED that the Center for Public Service be named the Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service in recognition of Mr. Cooper's contributions to the University of Virginia and to good government throughout the Commonwealth.

APPROVAL OF CAPITAL CAMPAIGN ENDOWMENT LEVELS
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Capital Campaign Endowment Levels shown in Appendix A, are approved.

APPROVAL OF THE SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE LAW SCHOOL RENOVATION PROJECT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the schematic design for the construction of the Law School renovation project as illustrated on drawings titled:(a) Existing Aerial View(b) Proposed Site Plan(c) Proposed Aerial Perspective View(d) Perspective from South Lawn(e) Law Forum and South Hall Plan(f) Wither Hall and Brown Hall First Floor Plan(g) Perspective View of the Library Reading Room(h) North Hall Plan(i) Perspective View of the Law Forum from the North Hall(j) West Hall First Floor Plan(k) Wither Hall and Brown Hall Second Floor Plan(l) West Hall Second Floor Plan(m) West Hall Third Floor Plan;dated March 24, 1994, and prepared by Ayers Saint Gross of Baltimore, Maryland, are approved for further development; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the project design shall be presented for further review at the preliminary design level of development.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR THE CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE GAS DIVISION ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated May 1, 1994, between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the City of Charlottesville Gas Division, which grants a fifteen (15) foot easement of right-of-way to operate and maintain a natural gas line across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and located in the Copeley Housing complex on Arlington Boulevard, in the North Grounds Precinct of the Grounds, is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said deed of easement.

NOMINATION TO THE ART AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW BOARD
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS pursuant to Section 2.1-488.1 of the Code of Virginia, the Governor appoints five citizen members to the Art and Architectural Review Board;WHEREAS the Code provides that one member be appointed from a list of architects nominated by the governing board of the University of Virginia; andWHEREAS it is appropriate that this duty be fulfilled by the Dean of the School of Architecture;RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors nominates the Dean of the School of Architecture to serve as a citizen member of the Art and Architectural Review Board;RESOLVED FURTHER that until such time as a permanent dean is selected, the Acting Dean of the School of Architecture shall serve in this role.

RESOLUTION APPROVING CHANGES TO THE PROMOTION AND TENURE POLICY FOR THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Dean of the School of Medicine created and charged the Task Force on Promotion and Tenure to review the School's current promotion and tenure policy and all related documents, and to determine what changes, if any, should be made to the policy;WHEREAS the Task Force, comprised of fourteen senior faculty and department chairs, reaffirmed the essential elements of the promotion and tenure policy (which was last revised in 1976), and recommended the following major modifications:(1) subdividing the existing "tenure-track faculty" classification into three new designations -- academic-investigator, clinician-investigator, and clinician-educator -- that more clearly reflect the diverse responsibilities of faculty in the Health Science Center;(2) replacing the current "general medical faculty" (i.e., non-tenure track) classification with: clinical faculty, research faculty, and instructional faculty;(3) prescribing specific performance, promotion, and tenure criteria for each of the three tenure-track faculty designations;(4) extending the "tenure eligibility period" for academic investigators who have been promoted to associate professor but have not been awarded tenure within the requisite probationary period, to a term of eight years; and for clinician-investigators and clinician-educators who likewise have been promoted without earning tenure, to a term of ten years; andWHEREAS these modifications, which are consistent with the principles of the American Association of University Professors as they pertain to faculty in university medical centers, are approved by the Faculty and the Dean of the School of Medicine, as well as the Vice President and Provost of Health Sciences;RESOLVED that the modifications to the School of Medicine's Promotion and Tenure Policy be approved.

APPROVAL OF TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION REGULAR SESSION:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 1993-94

Amount of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1994-95

Actual 1993-94

Amount of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1994-95

Tuition and Required Fees

Undergraduate and Graduate School Full Time

$4,322

$130

3.0%

$4,452

$12,226

$798

6.5%

$13,024

Medical Technology

$2,110

$64

3.0%

$2,174

$2,110

$64

3.0%

$2,174

Professional Schools:

Graduate Bus. - MBA \[1\] \[1\]Pending concurrence by the Secretary of Education.

$8,572

$730

8.5%

$9,302

$15,972

$1,784

11.2%

$17,756

Law - JD and Graduate \[1\]

$7,514

$636

8.5%

$8,150

$15,622

$1,748

11.2%

$17,370

Medicine - MD

$8,702

$262

3.0%

$8,964

$19,012

$1,204

6.3%

$20,216

Music Lessons (13 one-hour \[2\] \[2\]The cost of half-hour sessions will be prorated. lessons per semester)

$492

$0

0.0%

$492

$492

$0

0.0%

$492

Overseas Study Fee

n/a

$150

\--

$150

n/a

$150

\--

$150

Mid-Career Program Fee

n/a

$500

\--

$500

n/a

$500

\--

$500

Activity Fee

General - All Students

$28

$0

0.0%

$28

$28

$0

0.0%

$28

Part-Time Students

n/a

$8

\--

$8

n/a

$8

\--

$8

College of Arts & Sci. Students

n/a

$4

\--

$4

n/a

$4

\--

$4

Architecture

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

Commerce

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Darden

$55

$0

0.0%

$55

$55

$0

0.0%

$55

Education

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Engineering

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Grad. Arts & Sciences

$2

$2

100.0%

$4

$2

$2

100.0%

$4

Law School

$28

$0

0.0%

$28

$28

$0

0.0%

$28

Medicine

$142

($28)

\-19.7%

$114

$142

($28)

\-19.7%

$114

Nursing

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Residential College Programming Fee

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

CONTINUING EDUCATION:

Current 1993-94

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1994-95

Undergraduate (Non-Degree Programs) Per Semester Hour

Virginian

$131

$4

3.1%

$135

Non-Virginian

$173

$11

6.4%

$184

Graduate (Non-Degree Programs) Per Semester Hour\* \*Per semester hour rates for Educators in K-12 will be $125 for Virginian and $170 for Non-Virginian.

Virginian

$133

$4

3.0%

$137

Non-Virginian

$176

$11

6.3%

$187

Special Students Registered through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds Courses Per Semester Hour

Virginian

$199

$6

3.0%

$205

Non-Virginian

$636

$39

6.1%

$675

Masters Degree Programs Per Semester Hour

Virginian

$173

$6

3.5%

$179

Non-Virginian

$219

$14

6.4%

$233

Graduate Televised Engineering Per Semester Hour

Virginian

$177

$6

3.4%

$183

Non-Virginian

$342

$21

6.1%

$363

Application Fee for Certificate and Special Programs

$25

$0

0.0%

$25

Late Registration Fee

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

Change of Course Fee

$12

$0

0.0%

$12

Transcript Fee

$3

$0

0.0%

$3

Late Exam Fee

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the Academic Division be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1994:REGULAR SESSION:VirginianNon-VirginianActual 1993-94Amount of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1994-95Actual 1993-94Amount of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1994-95Tuition and Required FeesUndergraduate and Graduate School Full Time$4,322$1303.0%$4,452$12,226$7986.5%$13,024Medical Technology$2,110$643.0%$2,174$2,110$643.0%$2,174Professional Schools:Graduate Bus. - MBA \[1\] \[1\]Pending concurrence by the Secretary of Education. $8,572$7308.5%$9,302$15,972$1,78411.2%$17,756Law - JD and Graduate \[1\]$7,514$6368.5%$8,150$15,622$1,74811.2%$17,370Medicine - MD$8,702$2623.0%$8,964$19,012$1,2046.3%$20,216Music Lessons (13 one-hour \[2\] \[2\]The cost of half-hour sessions will be prorated. lessons per semester)$492$00.0%$492$492$00.0%$492Overseas Study Feen/a$150--$150n/a$150--$150Mid-Career Program Feen/a$500--$500n/a$500--$500Activity FeeGeneral - All Students$28$00.0%$28$28$00.0%$28Part-Time Studentsn/a$8--$8n/a$8--$8College of Arts & Sci. Studentsn/a$4--$4n/a$4--$4Architecture$40$00.0%$40$40$00.0%$40Commerce$10$00.0%$10$10$00.0%$10Darden$55$00.0%$55$55$00.0%$55Education$10$00.0%$10$10$00.0%$10Engineering$10$00.0%$10$10$00.0%$10Grad. Arts & Sciences$2$2100.0%$4$2$2100.0%$4Law School$28$00.0%$28$28$00.0%$28Medicine$142($28)-19.7%$114$142($28)-19.7%$114Nursing$10$00.0%$10$10$00.0%$10Residential College Programming Fee$100$00.0%$100$100$00.0%$100CONTINUING EDUCATION:Current 1993-94Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1994-95Undergraduate (Non-Degree Programs) Per Semester HourVirginian$131$43.1%$135Non-Virginian$173$116.4%$184Graduate (Non-Degree Programs) Per Semester Hour\* \*Per semester hour rates for Educators in K-12 will be $125 for Virginian and $170 for Non-Virginian. Virginian$133$43.0%$137Non-Virginian$176$116.3%$187Special Students Registered through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds Courses Per Semester HourVirginian$199$63.0%$205Non-Virginian$636$396.1%$675Masters Degree Programs Per Semester HourVirginian$173$63.5%$179Non-Virginian$219$146.4%$233Graduate Televised Engineering Per Semester HourVirginian$177$63.4%$183Non-Virginian$342$216.1%$363Application Fee for Certificate and Special Programs$25$00.0%$25Late Registration Fee$15$00.0%$15Change of Course Fee$12$00.0%$12Transcript Fee$3$00.0%$3Late Exam Fee$10$00.0%$10

Pending concurrence by the Secretary of Education.

The cost of half-hour sessions will be prorated.

Per semester hour rates for Educators in K-12 will be $125 for Virginian and $170 for Non-Virginian.

Other Miscellaneous Fees as established to recover expenses such as laboratory, materials, etc., on a basis of estimated cost.

OTHER:

Other contracted course and cooperative program tuition and required fee rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL OF ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES FOR 1994-1995
-----------------------------------------------------

Actual 1993-94

Amount of Inc/(Decr)

Percent Inc/(Decr)

Proposed 1994-95

Pledged for Facilities-University Hall

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

University Transit

$61

$0

0.0%

$61

Auxiliary Services Fee (including debt service)

$223

$12

5.4%

$235

Athletics

$120

$4

3.3%

$124

Student Health

$186

$6

3.2%

$192

University Union

$49

$0

0.0%

$49

University Union Programs

$16

$0

0.0%

$16

Capital Renewal Fee

$24

$0

0.0%

$24

Arts Fee

$12

$0

0.0%

$12

TOTAL IN-STATE STUDENTS

$706

$22

3.1%

$728

Debt Service Fee -- 1992 General Obligation Bonds

n/a

$84

n/a

$84

TOTAL OUT-OF-STATE STUDENTS

$706

$106

15.0%

$812

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the fee component of the tuition and required fees be established, effective July 1, 1994, in the amount of $728 for in-state students and $812 for out-of-state students;RESOLVED FURTHER that the fee component be allocated for the 1994-95 Session as follows:Actual 1993-94Amount of Inc/(Decr)Percent Inc/(Decr)Proposed 1994-95Pledged for Facilities-University Hall$15$00.0%$15University Transit$61$00.0%$61Auxiliary Services Fee (including debt service)$223$125.4%$235Athletics$120$43.3%$124Student Health$186$63.2%$192University Union$49$00.0%$49University Union Programs$16$00.0%$16Capital Renewal Fee$24$00.0%$24Arts Fee$12$00.0%$12TOTAL IN-STATE STUDENTS$706$223.1%$728Debt Service Fee -- 1992 General Obligation Bondsn/a$84n/a$84TOTAL OUT-OF-STATE STUDENTS$706$10615.0%$812

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 1993-94

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1994-95

Actual 1993-94

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1994-95

Tuition and Required Fees

Full-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate

$2,988

$105

3.5%

$3,093\* \*Tuition $2,301 + Fees $792 = $3,093

$6,826

$342

5.0%

$7,168\*\* \*\*Tuition $6,376 + Fees $792 = $7,168

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below.

Part-time Students

(less than 12 semester hrs per semester) Rate per semester hour

$92

$3

3.3%

$95

$252

$13

5.2%

$265

Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour

$92

$3

3.3%

$95

$174

$9

5.2%

$183

Non-Credit Courses - Rate per CEU

$32

$1

3.1%

$33

$91

$5

5.5%

$96

Meal Plan

19 meals per week

$1,696

$102

6.0%

$1,798

$1,696

$102

6.0%

$1,798

12 meals per week

$1,526

$92

6.0%

$1,618

$1,526

$92

6.0%

$1,618

Other Fees

Application Fee

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

Applied Music Fee

$120

$0

0.0%

$120

$120

$0

0.0%

$120

Student Teaching Fee

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

The Applied Music Fee is applicable to Applied Music Courses 104, 105, 108, 109, 204 and 205 and is in addition to all other tuition and required fees.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to Clinch Valley College be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1994:VirginianNon-VirginianActual 1993-94Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1994-95Actual 1993-94Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1994-95Tuition and Required FeesFull-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate$2,988$1053.5%$3,093\* \*Tuition $2,301 + Fees $792 = $3,093 $6,826$3425.0%$7,168\*\* \*\*Tuition $6,376 + Fees $792 = $7,168 Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below.Part-time Students(less than 12 semester hrs per semester) Rate per semester hour$92$33.3%$95$252$135.2%$265Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour$92$33.3%$95$174$95.2%$183Non-Credit Courses - Rate per CEU$32$13.1%$33$91$55.5%$96Meal Plan19 meals per week$1,696$1026.0%$1,798$1,696$1026.0%$1,79812 meals per week$1,526$926.0%$1,618$1,526$926.0%$1,618Other FeesApplication Fee$15$00.0%$15$15$00.0%$15Applied Music Fee$120$00.0%$120$120$00.0%$120Student Teaching Fee$100$00.0%$100$100$00.0%$100The Applied Music Fee is applicable to Applied Music Courses 104, 105, 108, 109, 204 and 205 and is in addition to all other tuition and required fees.

Tuition $2,301 + Fees $792 = $3,093

Tuition $6,376 + Fees $792 = $7,168

A Registration Fee for part-time students will be $5 per semester hour.

INCREASE IN APPLICATION FEES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
------------------------------------------------------

Undergraduate

$40

$ 40

Graduate (except Law & Darden)

$40

$ 40

Law (Including Graduate Law)

$40

$ 40

Darden (including DBA)

$75

$ 75

International Students

$75

$100

Medicine

$50

$ 50

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following schedule of application fees be approved, effective July 1, 1994:Undergraduate$40$ 40Graduate (except Law & Darden)$40$ 40Law (Including Graduate Law)$40$ 40Darden (including DBA)$75$ 75International Students$75$100Medicine$50$ 50

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 1994-1995 FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Actual 1993-94

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1994-95

Dormitory Rent

Dorms

$1,680

$168

10%

$1,848

Apt. House

$1,940

$194

10%

$2,134

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the dormitory room charges applicable to Clinch Valley College be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1994:Actual 1993-94Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1994-95Dormitory RentDorms$1,680$16810%$1,848Apt. House$1,940$19410%$2,134

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED CONTRACT RATES FOR DINING SERVICES
-------------------------------------------------------

Actual 1993-94

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1994-95

Dining Service Contract

7 Day (19 meals)

$1,920

$56

2.9%

$1,976

9 Meals per week

$1,700

$50

2.9%

$1,750

12 Meals per week

\--

\--

\--

$1,880

15 Meals per week

$1,900

$50

2.6%

$1,950

50 Meals per semester

$780

$20

2.6%

$800

100 Meals per semester

$1,240

$36

2.9%

$1,276

Lunch 50, per semester

\--

\--

\--

$680

Brown College/French House

9 Meals per week

$1,880

$56

3.0%

$1,936

12 Meals per week

\--

\--

\--

$2,050

15 Meals per week

$2,100

$60

2.9%

$2,160

100 Meals per semester

$1,430

$40

2.8%

$1,470

Hereford College

9 Meals per week

$1,800

$46

2.6%

$1,846

12 Meals per week

\--

\--

\--

$1,970

15 Meals per week

$2,010

$60

3.0%

$2,070

19 Meals per week

$2,030

$60

3.0%

$2,090

100 Meals per semester

$1,370

$40

2.9%

$1,410

Athletics

9 Meals per week

$2,030

$60

3.0%

$2,090

12 Meals per week

\--

\--

\--

$2,090

15 Meals per week

$2,030

$60

3.0%

$2,090

19 Meals per week

$2,060

$60

2.9%

$2,120

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the student contract rates for dining services are approved as shown below, effective beginning with the Session 1994-1995:Actual 1993-94Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1994-95Dining Service Contract7 Day (19 meals)$1,920$562.9%$1,9769 Meals per week$1,700$502.9%$1,75012 Meals per week------$1,88015 Meals per week$1,900$502.6%$1,95050 Meals per semester$780$202.6%$800100 Meals per semester$1,240$362.9%$1,276Lunch 50, per semester------$680Brown College/French House9 Meals per week$1,880$563.0%$1,93612 Meals per week------$2,05015 Meals per week$2,100$602.9%$2,160100 Meals per semester$1,430$402.8%$1,470Hereford College9 Meals per week$1,800$462.6%$1,84612 Meals per week------$1,97015 Meals per week$2,010$603.0%$2,07019 Meals per week$2,030$603.0%$2,090100 Meals per semester$1,370$402.9%$1,410Athletics9 Meals per week$2,030$603.0%$2,09012 Meals per week------$2,09015 Meals per week$2,030$603.0%$2,09019 Meals per week$2,060$602.9%$2,120

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION, 1994-1995
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Properties

Utilities Furnished By UVA\*\* \*\*One of these chairs was held over from the early eighties campaign. The price was raised from $200,000 to $250,000.

Rents 1993-94 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1994-95 Per Month

Utilities Paid By Occupant

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom Apt. (5)

WS,E,G,C

$390

$0

0.00%

$390

1 Bedroom Apt. (2)\* The single asterisk (\*) designates properties that were vacated, renovated, and modernized during the year. As a result, rates were increased to reflect the current market level when the units were re-occupied.Rate increases are proposed for those properties which have not been recently vacated. The purpose of these rate increases is to gradually adjust those rents to market level.Utility abbreviations are as follows: WS (water, sewer), E (electric), G (gas), O (oil), HP (heating plant), HVAC heating, venting, and air conditioning), A/C (air conditioning), and C (cable TV).

WS,E,G,C

$395

$0

0.00%

$395

2 Bedroom Apt. (12)

WS,E,G,C

$485

$0

0.00%

$485

2 Bedroom Apt. (4)\*

WS,E,G,C

$505

$0

0.00%

$505

3 Bedroom Houses (13)

WS,C

$520

$18

3.46%

$538

E,O or G,E

3 Bedroom Houses (3)\*

WS,C

$690

$0

0.00%

$690

G,E

3BR Townhouses (2)

WS,C

$520

$18

3.46%

$538

E

3BR Townhouses (3)\*

WS,C

$690

$0

0.00%

$690

E

121 Mimosa (Farmhouse)

Apt. 1, 1 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C

$385

$0

0.00%

$385

Apt. 2, 3 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C

$450

$0

0.00%

$450

Apt. 3, 1 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C

$385

$0

0.00%

$385

Apt. 4, 2 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C

$414

$0

0.00%

$414

Monroe Lane

1 Bedroom (9)

WS,G,C

$360

$0

0.00%

$360

E

1 Bedroom (6)\*

WS,G,C

$390

$0

0.00%

$390

Efficiency (1)

WS,G,C

$300

$0

0.00%

$300

E

404 Monroe Ln (2BR)

WS,G,C

$430

$15

3.49%

$445

E

412A Monroe Ln (2BR)

WS,G,C

$460

$0

0.00%

$460

E

412B Monroe Ln (Eff)

WS,G,C

$310

$0

0.00%

$310

E

Sundry

Vyssotsky Cottage (3BR)

WS

$450

$16

3.56%

$466

E,O

Upper Alden (3BR)

WS,O

$495

$17

3.43%

$512

E

Lower Alden (2BR)

WS,O

$435

$15

3.45%

$450

E

South Cottage (3BR)

WS

$235

$8

3.40%

$243

E,O

McGuffey Cottage (Eff)

WS,E,HP,C

$310

$0

0.00%

$310

Upper Mews (1BR)

WS,E,HP,C,A/C

$365

$0

0.00%

$365

Lower Mews (1BR)

WS,E,HP,C,A/C

$400

$0

0.00%

$400

Brown College Range (2BR)

WS,C,HVAC

$495

$0

0.00%

$495

E

Brown College Apt. (2)

WS,E,C,HVAC

$440

$0

0.00%

$440

Hereford Coll. Fac. Apts. (2)

WS,E,C,HVAC

$535

$0

0.00%

$535

Hereford Coll. Principal

WS,E,C,HVAC

$660

$0

0.00%

$660

Properties

Utilities Furnished By UVA\*\*

Rents 1993-94 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1994-95 Per Month

Utilities Paid By Occupant

Birdwood Properties

Cottage (1BR)

WS,C

$335

$12

3.58%

$347

E

Garage (2BR)

WS,C

$566

$0

0.00%

$566

E,O

Cash House (3BR)

WS,C

$535

$19

3.55%

$554

E,O

Birdwood House (3BR)

WS,C

$585

$20

3.42%

$605

E,O,G

Faulkner Properties

Holly House Upper (2BR)

WS,E,O,C

$430

$0

0.00%

$430

Holly House Lower (1RM)

WS,E,O,C

$215

$0

0.00%

$215

Hedge House (2BR)

WS,C

$390

$14

3.59%

$404

E,O

Orchard House (5RMS)

WS,E,O,C

$215

$0

0.00%

$215

Carriage House (4BR)

WS,C

$455

$16

3.52%

$471

E,G

118 Oakhurst, Upper (2BR)\*

WS,G,C

$475

$0

0.00%

$475

E

118 Oakhurst, Lower (2BR)

WS,G,C

$495

$0

0.00%

$495

E

409 Valley Road, (2BR)

C

$430

$0

0.00%

$430

WS,E,O

411 Valley Road, (2BR)\*

C

$540

$0

0.00%

$540

WS,E,G

503 Valley Road, (1BR)

C

$350

$0

0.00%

$350

WS,E,G

Faculty Apartments

Apt. 11, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$455

$0

0.00%

$455

Apt. 12, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$455

$0

0.00%

$455

Apt. 14, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$455

$0

0.00%

$455

Apt. 15, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$455

$0

0.00%

$455

Apt. 21, (Eff)

WS,E,G,C

$320

$0

0.00%

$320

Apt. 22, (1BR)\*

WS,E,G,C

$360

$0

0.00%

$360

Apt. 23, (Eff)

WS,E,G,C

$305

$0

0.00%

$305

Apt. 24, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$350

$0

0.00%

$350

Apt. 25, (1BR)\*

WS,E,G,C

$370

$0

0.00%

$370

Apt. 26, (1BR)\*

WS,E,G,C

$370

$0

0.00%

$370

Apt. 27, (1BR)\*

WS,E,G,C

$370

$0

0.00%

$370

Apt. 28, (1BR)\*

WS,E,G,C

$370

$0

0.00%

$370

Apt. 31, (1BR)\*

WS,E,G,C

$370

$0

0.00%

$370

Apt. 32, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$355

$0

0.00%

$355

Apt. 33, (2BR)\*

WS,E,G,C

$400

$0

0.00%

$400

Apt. 34, (2BR)\*

WS,E,G,C

$400

$0

0.00%

$400

Apt. 35, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$395

$0

0.00%

$395

Apt. 36, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$395

$0

0.00%

$395

Properties

Utilities Furnished By UVA\*\*

Rents 1993-94 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1994-95 Per Month

Utilities Paid By Occupant

E & G Properties

Montebello, (3 BR/Garage)

O

$515

$18

3.50%

$533

WS,E

Big Morea (4 BR)

WS,E,O,C,A/C

$725

$25

3.45%

$750

Little Morea (2 BR)

WS,E,O,C,A/C

$558

$20

3.58%

$578

Sunnyside (4 BR)

C

$950

$0

0.00%

$950

WS,E,O

Brown College House (3 BR)

WS,E,HVAC

$660

$23

3.48%

$683

Pavilion I

WS,E,HVAC

$613

$0

0.00%

$613

Pavilion II

WS,HP

$438

$15

3.42%

$453

E

Pavilion III

WS,E,HVAC

$613

$0

0.00%

$613

Pavilion IV

WS,HP

$438

$15

3.42%

$453

E

Pavilion V

WS,HVAC

$613

$0

0.00%

$613

E

Pavilion VI

WS,E,HVAC

$613

$0

0.00%

$613

Pavilion VIII Lower

WS,E,HVAC

$181

$6

3.31%

$187

Pavilion VIII Upper

WS,E,HVAC

$375

$13

3.47%

$388

Pavilion IX

WS,HP

$438

$15

3.42%

$453

E

Pavilion X

WS,HP

$438

$15

3.42%

$453

E

Blandy Farm

Curator's House

WS

\---

\---

\---

\---

E,O

Farmhouse

WS

$600

$18

3.00%

$618

E,O

Green Farm House

WS,E

$60.50

$1.50

2.48%

$62

O

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the faculty and staff housing rates are approved as indicated effective July 1, 1994. The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to increase the rates to market level when a property is vacated.PropertiesUtilities Furnished By UVA\*\* \*\*One of these chairs was held over from the early eighties campaign. The price was raised from $200,000 to $250,000. Rents 1993-94 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1994-95 Per MonthUtilities Paid By OccupantPiedmont Estates1 Bedroom Apt. (5)WS,E,G,C$390$00.00%$3901 Bedroom Apt. (2)\* The single asterisk (\*) designates properties that were vacated, renovated, and modernized during the year. As a result, rates were increased to reflect the current market level when the units were re-occupied.Rate increases are proposed for those properties which have not been recently vacated. The purpose of these rate increases is to gradually adjust those rents to market level.Utility abbreviations are as follows: WS (water, sewer), E (electric), G (gas), O (oil), HP (heating plant), HVAC heating, venting, and air conditioning), A/C (air conditioning), and C (cable TV). WS,E,G,C$395$00.00%$3952 Bedroom Apt. (12)WS,E,G,C$485$00.00%$4852 Bedroom Apt. (4)\*WS,E,G,C$505$00.00%$5053 Bedroom Houses (13)WS,C$520$183.46%$538E,O or G,E3 Bedroom Houses (3)\*WS,C$690$00.00%$690G,E3BR Townhouses (2)WS,C$520$183.46%$538E3BR Townhouses (3)\*WS,C$690$00.00%$690E121 Mimosa (Farmhouse)Apt. 1, 1 BedroomWS,E,G,C$385$00.00%$385Apt. 2, 3 BedroomWS,E,G,C$450$00.00%$450Apt. 3, 1 BedroomWS,E,G,C$385$00.00%$385Apt. 4, 2 BedroomWS,E,G,C$414$00.00%$414Monroe Lane1 Bedroom (9)WS,G,C$360$00.00%$360E1 Bedroom (6)\*WS,G,C$390$00.00%$390Efficiency (1)WS,G,C$300$00.00%$300E404 Monroe Ln (2BR)WS,G,C$430$153.49%$445E412A Monroe Ln (2BR)WS,G,C$460$00.00%$460E412B Monroe Ln (Eff)WS,G,C$310$00.00%$310ESundryVyssotsky Cottage (3BR)WS$450$163.56%$466E,OUpper Alden (3BR)WS,O$495$173.43%$512ELower Alden (2BR)WS,O$435$153.45%$450ESouth Cottage (3BR)WS$235$83.40%$243E,OMcGuffey Cottage (Eff)WS,E,HP,C$310$00.00%$310Upper Mews (1BR)WS,E,HP,C,A/C$365$00.00%$365Lower Mews (1BR)WS,E,HP,C,A/C$400$00.00%$400Brown College Range (2BR)WS,C,HVAC$495$00.00%$495EBrown College Apt. (2)WS,E,C,HVAC$440$00.00%$440Hereford Coll. Fac. Apts. (2)WS,E,C,HVAC$535$00.00%$535Hereford Coll. PrincipalWS,E,C,HVAC$660$00.00%$660PropertiesUtilities Furnished By UVA\*\*Rents 1993-94 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1994-95 Per MonthUtilities Paid By OccupantBirdwood PropertiesCottage (1BR)WS,C$335$123.58%$347EGarage (2BR)WS,C$566$00.00%$566E,OCash House (3BR)WS,C$535$193.55%$554E,OBirdwood House (3BR)WS,C$585$203.42%$605E,O,GFaulkner PropertiesHolly House Upper (2BR)WS,E,O,C$430$00.00%$430Holly House Lower (1RM)WS,E,O,C$215$00.00%$215Hedge House (2BR)WS,C$390$143.59%$404E,OOrchard House (5RMS)WS,E,O,C$215$00.00%$215Carriage House (4BR)WS,C$455$163.52%$471E,G118 Oakhurst, Upper (2BR)\*WS,G,C$475$00.00%$475E118 Oakhurst, Lower (2BR)WS,G,C$495$00.00%$495E409 Valley Road, (2BR)C$430$00.00%$430WS,E,O411 Valley Road, (2BR)\*C$540$00.00%$540WS,E,G503 Valley Road, (1BR)C$350$00.00%$350WS,E,GFaculty ApartmentsApt. 11, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$455$00.00%$455Apt. 12, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$455$00.00%$455Apt. 14, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$455$00.00%$455Apt. 15, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$455$00.00%$455Apt. 21, (Eff)WS,E,G,C$320$00.00%$320Apt. 22, (1BR)\*WS,E,G,C$360$00.00%$360Apt. 23, (Eff)WS,E,G,C$305$00.00%$305Apt. 24, (1BR)WS,E,G,C$350$00.00%$350Apt. 25, (1BR)\*WS,E,G,C$370$00.00%$370Apt. 26, (1BR)\*WS,E,G,C$370$00.00%$370Apt. 27, (1BR)\*WS,E,G,C$370$00.00%$370Apt. 28, (1BR)\*WS,E,G,C$370$00.00%$370Apt. 31, (1BR)\*WS,E,G,C$370$00.00%$370Apt. 32, (1BR)WS,E,G,C$355$00.00%$355Apt. 33, (2BR)\*WS,E,G,C$400$00.00%$400Apt. 34, (2BR)\*WS,E,G,C$400$00.00%$400Apt. 35, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$395$00.00%$395Apt. 36, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$395$00.00%$395PropertiesUtilities Furnished By UVA\*\*Rents 1993-94 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1994-95 Per MonthUtilities Paid By OccupantE & G PropertiesMontebello, (3 BR/Garage)O$515$183.50%$533WS,EBig Morea (4 BR)WS,E,O,C,A/C$725$253.45%$750Little Morea (2 BR)WS,E,O,C,A/C$558$203.58%$578Sunnyside (4 BR)C$950$00.00%$950WS,E,OBrown College House (3 BR)WS,E,HVAC$660$233.48%$683Pavilion IWS,E,HVAC$613$00.00%$613Pavilion IIWS,HP$438$153.42%$453EPavilion IIIWS,E,HVAC$613$00.00%$613Pavilion IVWS,HP$438$153.42%$453EPavilion VWS,HVAC$613$00.00%$613EPavilion VIWS,E,HVAC$613$00.00%$613Pavilion VIII LowerWS,E,HVAC$181$63.31%$187Pavilion VIII UpperWS,E,HVAC$375$133.47%$388Pavilion IXWS,HP$438$153.42%$453EPavilion XWS,HP$438$153.42%$453EBlandy FarmCurator's HouseWS------------E,OFarmhouseWS$600$183.00%$618E,OGreen Farm HouseWS,E$60.50$1.502.48%$62O

One of these chairs was held over from the early eighties campaign. The price was raised from $200,000 to $250,000.

The single asterisk (\*) designates properties that were vacated, renovated, and modernized during the year. As a result, rates were increased to reflect the current market level when the units were re-occupied.

Rate increases are proposed for those properties which have not been recently vacated. The purpose of these rate increases is to gradually adjust those rents to market level.

Utility abbreviations are as follows: WS (water, sewer), E (electric), G (gas), O (oil), HP (heating plant), HVAC heating, venting, and air conditioning), A/C (air conditioning), and C (cable TV).

APPROVAL OF RESIDENTIAL HOUSING RATES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE FOR 1994-1995
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Facility

Utilities Furnished By Clinch Valley College WS(Water, Sewer) G(Gas)

Rents 1993-94 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1994-95 Per Month

Houses(6)

WS

$375

$25

6.7%

$400

2 Bedroom Apts(2)

WSG

$375

$25

6.7%

$400

1 Bedroom Apt.(2)

WSG

$340

$35

10.3%

$375

Cohen House

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

$500

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Residential Housing Rates applicable to Clinch Valley College be approved as shown below, effective September 1, 1994:FacilityUtilities Furnished By Clinch Valley College WS(Water, Sewer) G(Gas)Rents 1993-94 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1994-95 Per MonthHouses(6)WS$375$256.7%$4002 Bedroom Apts(2)WSG$375$256.7%$4001 Bedroom Apt.(2)WSG$340$3510.3%$375Cohen Housen/an/an/an/a$500

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported on gifts, grants, and contracts. The report was accepted by the Board.

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING A PROJECT CONSISTING OF THE PURCHASE AND LEASE OF LAND AND THE CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW ACADEMIC FACILITY IN NORTHERN VIRGINIA
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Division of Continuing Education wishes to construct a new academic facility for its programs in Northern Virginia (the "Project");WHEREAS, a seven acre site adjacent to Falls Church's George Mason Middle and High Schools in Fairfax County has been selected as the preferred location, based on programmatic and cost considerations;WHEREAS the Project will be developed and used jointly by the University of Virginia and the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (the "Universities");WHEREAS the Universities plan to lease and purchase land and enter into a contract with a developer in connection with the Project;WHEREAS the Universities plan to issue debt to finance the Project, either jointly or separately;RESOLVED that the University's participation in the Project, consisting of the purchase and lease of land and the construction of a new academic facility in Fairfax County, is approved. The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to enter into a ground lease with the City of Falls Church for approximately five (5) acres of land for a period not to exceed forty (40) years and to purchase for a fixed price of $1.3 million or lease from the County of Fairfax, under terms similar to those for the five acres, the additional two (2) acres known as the Miller & Smith parcel. In addition, the Executive Vice President is authorized to enter into a contract with a developer for the Project and a Memorandum of Understanding with the localities regarding the financing and use of the facilities. The total cost of the project shall not exceed $18.6 million. All property and contracts will be held jointly by the Universities and expenses will be shared based on usage of the facility.RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is similarly authorized to seek requisite State approvals and to execute necessary documents on the University's behalf in order to implement the Projects.

DECLARATION OF OFFICIAL INTENT TO ISSUE BONDS TO REIMBURSE EXPENDITURES FOR AMOUNTS NEEDED FOR PLANNING COSTS, ISSUANCE COSTS, RESERVE FUNDS AND OTHER FINANCING EXPENSES ASSOCIATED WITH THE ACQUISITION, CONSTRUCTION, AND EQUIPPING OF THE VIRGINIA TECH/UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA EDUCATION CENTER AT FALLS CHURCH PROJECT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the United States Department of the Treasury has promulgated final regulations in 26 CFR Section 1.103-18 (the "Regulations") governing when the allocation of bond proceeds to reimburse expenditures previously made by an issuer shall be treated as an expenditure of the bond proceeds; andWHEREAS the IRS Regulations, which are effective for bonds issued after March 2, 1992, require a declaration of official intent by an issuer to provide evidence that, on or prior to the date of payment of expenditures, the issuer intended to reimburse such expenditures with proceeds of its bonds; andWHEREAS The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") issues bonds, from time to time, pursuant to Article X, Section 9(d) of the Constitution of Virginia (the "9(d) Bonds"); andWHEREAS the University now desires to make such a declaration of official intent as required by the Regulations.RESOLVED that, pursuant to the Regulations, the University hereby declares its intent to reimburse expenditures in accordance with the following:1. The University reasonably expects to reimburse expenditures incurred for the construction of the Virginia Tech/University of Virginia Education Center at Falls Church Project with proceeds of 9(d) Bonds to be issued by the University through the Treasury Board;2. This resolution is a declaration of official intent under Section 1.103-18 of the Regulations;3. The maximum principal amount of bonds expected to be issued for the purpose of reimbursing expenditures relating to the Virginia Tech/University of Virginia Education Center at Falls Church Project is $18,600,000; and4. This declaration of intent shall be available for public inspection at the principal office of the University's Office of the Treasurer immediately after the date hereof and shall remain available for public inspection on a reasonable basis until the date of issue of all reimbursement bonds pursuant hereto.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT
-----------------------

The President distributed to the Board copies of a report prepared the day before for the student group, Concerned Black Students. The report addresses the recommendations made in the 1987 Task Force Report, "Audacious Faith" (the Task Force was appointed by President O'Neil to study ways to improve the racial climate at the University). Reports of this sort, the President noted, typically have a lifespan of three to five years; the 1987 Task Force, as a planning group, was replaced in 1992, by the University's Council on Community, whose joint Chairs are Dean Guiton and Dr. Detmer. The report the President distributed summarizes what has been done to implement the recommendations of the 1987 "Audacious Faith."

The President discussed some of the highlights of the report, particularly the increases in financial aid for black students and the successes of the programs in the School of Engineering to retain and graduate black students.

As to the concerns expressed in recent weeks by Concerned Black Students, the President said the University administration is trying to begin a dialogue with them. The students, he said, are frustrated about financial aid and about the recruitment of black faculty, in spite of the University's demonstrable successes in both areas.

A copy of the report distributed to the Board is attached to these Minutes. (See Appendix B)

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 11:10 a.m.

AGG:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: April 9, 1994

CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 0

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 2

NAME

VOTE yes or no

COMMENTS

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Franklin K. Birckhead

yes

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

absent

Daniel A. Hoffler

absent

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

C. Wilson McNeely, III

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Albert H. Small

yes

Chris A. Howe

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Saturday, April 9, 1994 a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAME VOTE yes or no COMMENTS Hovey S. Dabney yes Franklin K. Birckhead yes W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr. yes Robert G. Butcher, Jr. yes Mortimer M. Caplin yes Charles M. Caravati, Jr. yes N. Thomas Connally yes Warner N. Dalhouse absent Daniel A. Hoffler absent Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland yes Evans B. Jessee yes Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge yes Arnold H. Leon yes C. Wilson McNeely, III yes Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie yes Albert H. Small yes Chris A. Howe yes

APPENDIX A
----------

1\. Establish three new levels for chairs: $2,000,000 for privately funded new position - includes base salary and supplement; $1,000,000 for a chair to anchor a department or teaching area - includes salary supplement plus discretionary funds; $500,000 for a typical Eminent Scholars Chair as well as a Research Professorship - includes salary supplement.

2\. In terms of visiting professorships, either the $1,000,000 or $500,000 level could be designated as a visiting professorship as agreed to by donor and recipient area.

3\. For Curry, Nursing and Architecture a designated number of chairs could be established at the $250,000 level (essentially half of the new $500,000 level) for the duration of our comprehensive campaign or until the designated number are committed - whichever comes first. Going forward from either of these two events, current chair levels will prevail universally.

4\. For Law and Darden, a designated number of currently marketed research professorships may be maintained at $250,000 until 12 months following the official kickoff of the campaign. Once the designated number of research professorships are committed or the time period elapses, whichever comes first, the new level for research professorships will prevail.

5\. A new minimum level of $100,000 to name either a graduate fellowship or undergraduate scholarship is recommended. A minimum of $25,000 permits a donor to become a "partner" with other donors in providing financial assistance to undergraduate and graduate students.

6\. Minimum levels for lectureships, prize/awards, and memorial/commemoratives were raised to $50,000.

7\. A new category of unrestricted endowment would require a minimum of $100,000 to name.

8\. A policy for naming centers, institutes, departments or programs is articulated, and is parallel to the policy for naming facilities.

Attachment 1 Endowment Minimums Recommended by The Endowment Level Committee\* \*Committee Members: Don Detmer, Chair; Colette Capone, Charles Fitzgerald, Alice Handy; Tony Hirschel; Ray Nelson; Harry Porter (through 12/31/93) January 31, 1994
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Committee Members: Don Detmer, Chair; Colette Capone, Charles Fitzgerald, Alice Handy; Tony Hirschel; Ray Nelson; Harry Porter (through 12/31/93)

FACULTY CHAIRS

Type: Privately endowed base salary plus salary supplement

Nomenclature: "Twenty First Century Professorship"

Description: Forward looking, addressing cutting edge of University's plans for the new century. Recognizing or attracting the next generation of outstanding scholars.

New level: $2,000,000 Previous level: $1,000,000

Notes: The previous level of $1,000,000 would not generate enough endowment income to cover the base salary of the chairholder; therefore, this type of chair could not be funded at the previous level.

Type: Salary supplement and discretionary funds

Nomenclature: "Distinguished Professorship"

Description: Support for current faculty or to attract new faculty. Utilized to anchor a teaching area or academic department. May include discretionary funds that would not qualify for a match. Could be designated as a Visiting Professorship as well.

New Level: $1,000,000 Previous Level: None

Type: Salary supplement chairs

Nomenclature: "Eminent Scholars Chair"

Description: Typically salary supplement only. Support to remain competitive in faculty salaries. To retain current faculty and to attract new faculty. Could be designated as a Visiting Professorship as well.

New level: $500,000 Previous level: $400,000

Type: Support for summer or release time salary supplement

Nomenclature: Research Professorship

Description: Salary supplement to support the summer or release time research of current faculty.

New level: $500,000 Previous level: $200,000

Addressing the need to maintain a limited number of lower priced chairs and research professorships:

To accommodate the needs of the Curry School of Education, the School of Architecture, and the Nursing School, a specified number of Eminent Scholars Chairs will be set aside for each school at the $250,000 level (or half the new level of $500,000) for the duration of the University's comprehensive campaign. Once the specified number of chairs have been committed at the $250,000 level or the campaign comes to a close (whichever comes first), Eminent Scholar chair levels will be raised to whatever the current level is in effect at the time.

The number of chairs for each of the specific Schools follows:

Architecture 4\* \*One $200,000 chair held over from the first campaign is currently partially funded and is not included in this count.

One $200,000 chair held over from the first campaign is currently partially funded and is not included in this count.

Curry School 6

Nursing 2\*\*

In terms of Research Professorships, the Law School and The Darden School have previously marketed research professorships at the $250,000 level. Both Law and Darden will be able to offer a specified number of research professorships at the $250,000 level until 12 months after the official campaign kickoff at which time the new $500,000 level for research professorships shall take effect.

The specified number of research professorships follows:

Darden 4

Law 5

STUDENT FINANCIAL AID

Type: Undergraduate Scholarship

New level: $100,000 minimum to name a scholarship. $25,000 minimum to become a partner in providing financial assistance (funds pooled with other partners to provide financial assistance.)

Previous level: $25,000 minimum level to name a scholarship.

Type: Graduate Fellowship

New level: $100,000 minimum to name a fellowship $25,000 minimum to become a partner in providing financial assistance (funds pooled with other partners to provide financial assistance.)

Previous level: $25,000 minimum level to name a fellowship.

OTHER ENDOWED FUNDS

Type: Lectureships

New level: $50,000 minimum to name

Previous level: $10,000 minimum to name

Type: Prize/Award

New level: $50,000 minimum to name

Pervious level: $10,000 minimum to name

Type: Memorial/Commemorative

New level: $50,000 minimum to name

Previous level: $10,000 minimum to name

Type: Book Funds

New level: same as previous level

Previous level: $10,000 minimum to name

Type: Unrestricted Endowment

New level: $100,000 minimum to name

Previous level: None

CENTERS, INSTITUTES, DEPARTMENTS, PROGRAMS

Recommended policy: The Committee recommends that each naming opportunity be decided on a case by case basis through negotiations among the dean or director, administration, and the Board of Visitors with the following guideline as a starting point:

To name a center, department, program, or institute a donor should provide endowment to support one half of the projected operating costs.

CHAIR AND FINANCIAL AID ENDOWMENTS THAT DO NOT QUALIFY FOR A MATCH

Chairs and fellowships/scholarships established from School/Program discretionary funds can be endowed at the new minimum levels outlined above. Such endowed funds do not qualify for matching state funds.

APPENDIX B
----------

University of Virginia April 8, 1994

On April 7, 1994, members of the Concerned Black Students asked for immediate implementation of the items of "Audacious Faith," a 1987 Task Force Report that sought to improve the racial climate at the University. Such reports have typical lifespans of 3-5 years.

The University's Council on Community replaced the Task Force as a planning entity in 1992.

The following report (drawn from routine progress reports since 1987) summarizes what was done with the 1987 recommendations.

Recommendation 1: Provision of incentives to academic units to promote the hiring of black faculty.

 initiated performance evaluation criteria for department chairs, deans, and vice presidents that include success in attracting minority and women faculty;

 designated $500,000 placed in the provost's budget to fund loan lines (some 10 positions) to allow hiring of minority and women tenured or tenure-track faculty;

 in 1986-1993, 24 such lines were used, 14 for African-American faculty, the others for other minority faculty and for women faculty;

 as of August 1993, 12 of the 14 are still here; five are tenured;

 total number of African-American full-time, instructional and research faculty nearly doubled since 1983 (from 25-47);

 in academic year 1994, the Law School has made commitments to 12 new faculty members (11 instructional and one administrative), 8 of whom are women and/or minority group members; this includes two African-American women and two African-American men; success rates vary among schools; deans have standing orders to recruit actively in order to attract new and visiting minority faculty members; results are a primary factor in deans' performance reviews and salary settings.

Recommendation 2: Enhancement of efforts to recruit black faculty members.

This recommendation overlaps with #1, above. In addition to above incentives,

 faculty vacancies are advertised in publications that target minority audiences and are sent to historically black colleges and universities; schools make use of minority vita banks for faculty searches; search committees are obligated to make significant personal efforts to identify and recruit qualified minority candidates;

 schools and departments are regularly allotted incremental funds to cover the additional cost of providing competitive salaries for new and continuing minority faculty;

 in 1990, the University approved and put into effect the Faculty Recruitment and Appointment Procedures manual, which was updated in 1993. This manual details procedures to be used in recruiting and hiring, with specific attention to matters involving minority and women candidates;

 in 1983, 3 black faculty members held the rank of full professor; in 1993, 15 did.

Recommendation 3: Improved monitoring of and accountability for affirmative action faculty recruitment efforts.

 every vice president, dean, or unit director reports annually on activities and progress in meeting affirmative action goals;

 by Board of Visitors' resolution (1990), this information is presented annually in the form of a detailed report on progress; this report is delivered to the Board annually;

 by president's order, affirmative action hiring criteria were included commencing in 1993 in the evaluations of all deans, unit directors, and department chairs;

 by president's order, vice-presidents are required to submit quarterly reports to the president on all major searches;

 the affirmative action officer monitors all searches;

 as necessary, the president intervenes to require additional search or recruitment efforts.

Recommendation 4: Enhancement of efforts to retain black faculty.

 the percentage of tenured and tenure-track black faculty has increased since 1983 (1983 tenured -- 2.0%; 1993 tenured -- 3.1%; 1983 tenure-track -- 2.4%; 1993 tenure-track -- 4.2%);

 the provost reviews every case in which a dean recommends that a minority or woman faculty member be denied tenure to ensure that proper decisions were made and procedures were followed; when sufficient cause exists, the provost overrides denials recommended at the school level;

 some schools provide mentoring for minority and women junior faculty; others reduce teaching loads for junior members to allow for the research activities that enhance their opportunities for tenure;

 the Office of Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action conducts exit interviews with faculty who resign, and reports relevant findings to the deans and the provost.

Recommendation 5: Expansion of the number of black graduate students at the University.

 graduate students -- 1983, 2.7% African-American; 1993, 4.1%;

 first professional students -- 1983, 5.2% African-American; 1993, 10.1%;

 schools use candidate referral services, including affirmative action registers, for recruitment;

 although state support for graduate students and for graduate education deteriorated dramatically in 1990-93, faculty members supplemented available aid by designating research income for graduate student support, by shifting funds from other objects, and by personal contributions from staff and faculty members; this year, staff and faculty from the Health Sciences Center pledged more than $760,000 (of personal resources) to scholarships for minority and disadvantaged students; last year, they contributed $600,000 for this purpose and raised additional private gifts from other persons;

 Medicine has more than doubled minority enrollment; this spring, 11 minority students will graduate; 28 enrolled last fall;

 Engineering has increased its minority student enrollment from 6 in 1986 to 50 in 1993; the related fellowship support was derived almost entirely from faculty research grants;

 in 1991, Engineering secured an $864,000, five-year NSF grant to recruit, support, and graduate minority Ph.D. students;

 in 1992, the University ranked 8th out of 33 in the percent of African-American graduate students among AAUDE universities, which are our peer group.

Recommendation 6: Enhancement of activities to increase the interest of black students in attending the University of Virginia.

 Admissions and recruitment activities:

 the admissions office sponsors Fall Fling and Spring Fling; an average of 700 African-American students and parents participate each year;

 scholarships, including the University Achievement Award (full 4-year tuition for 50 students each year), Walter Ridley scholarships (5 $1,000 awards), and Holland Scholars ($10,000 for 4 years), provide targeted financial assistance for black students; the number and value of such awards made from University funds has increased incrementally since 1987;

 the admissions office sponsors a college partnership program, a collaboration among 17 colleges and universities, the Fairfax County school system, and the Fairfax County Educational Foundation; the consortium benefits some 800 black students per year throughout the state;

 the director of minority recruitment has coordinated programs for numerous organizations whose goal is to increase minority enrollments in colleges and universities; these include PREP for PREP College program, A Better Chance, LEAD, the Central Virginia Achievement program, and others.

 Saturday Academy -- an enrichment program for local students in grades 3-11 that began in fall 1991; promotes value of college education; initiated by a University faculty member and administrator; serves some 85 students;

 CHROME (Cooperating Hampton Roads Organizations for Minorities) -- founded in 1983 and serves 75 black students per year; it is a partnership among businesses, government, universities, and public schools to increase the numbers of minority and women students pursuing math, science, engineering, and related technical fields;

 EXCEL -- a mentoring program for local African-American youth; 20 black University males participate as mentors each year;

 teacher-cadet program -- targets minority students and students whose families are economically disadvantaged for teaching careers; this program normally has approximately 12 black students;

 Engineering -- summer internships for high school students; began in 1993 with 12 in-state black students;

 Engineering -- minority introduction to engineering program for high school students; started in 1987;

 Engineering -- summer academy/bridge program in which entering students take collegiate courses in summer preceding entry; program started in 1987; in 1993, 16 black students participated;

 Medicine -- high honors program pairs black high school students with research faculty; funded by NIH and has served 10 black students;

 Medicine -- academic reach-up program funded by School; non-resident summer program for high school students; 37 black students participated in 1992 and 23 students in 1993.

 Upward Bound -- intensive basic skill development, educational and career counseling with goal of completing high school and successful college admission (approximately 65 black students/year); funded by U.S. Department of Education;

 Howard Hughes Medical Institute funds undergraduate research in biological science; one facet of program is awarding of scholarships and summer research stipends to black students who are interested in research careers; program began in 1989; five students funded to-date.

Recommendation 7: Development of sustained links between the University and target public school systems.

This recommendation overlaps with #6, above. In addition and specifically, the University:

 participates in CHROME math and science program for minority students in Hampton Roads;

 participates in Northern Virginia college partnership program for minority students;

 conducts various summer internship programs that target minority high school students (Engineering, Education, McIntire, others as funds are available).

Recommendation 8: Enhancement of financial aid for black students.

 total aid to undergraduate black students has increased from $3.4 million in 1987-88 to almost $9.5 million in 1993-94;

 total number of black undergraduates receiving assistance has increased from 642 in 1987-88 to 1,023 in 1993-94;

 total need-based aid to black undergraduates increased from $2.6 million in 1987-88 to more than $6.1 million in 1993-94;

 total number of undergraduate black students receiving need-based aid increased from 544 students in 1987-88 to more than 800 in 1993-94;

 University Achievement Award Program -- merit-based scholarship program for black Virginians has grown from $150,000 in 1987-88 to $870,000 in 1993-94; currently funds 50 scholarships for each incoming class;

 Jerome H. Holland Scholarship Program attracts nation's most promising African-American students; funded jointly by University allocations and private donations, this program currently supports 22 scholars; five new scholarships are budgeted for 1994-95.

Recommendation 9: Enhancement of efforts to retain and graduate black students.

 each school within the University has a minority recruitment and retention program, and each has personnel dedicated to these efforts;

 Summer and Fall Transition Programs provide support and academic preparation for successful transition to college life; result in increased enrollments and performance; served 52 black students in summer 1992 and 40 black students in summer 1993; retention rates for students involved in the transition programs is approximately 80%;

 Engineering sponsors several programs, including Project View and a tutorial program. Project view began in 1986; served 89 black students in fall 1992 and 40 black students in fall 1993.

Recommendation 10: Provide training sessions for faculty on the classroom experience of black and other minority students in a predominantly white milieu.

 created the Teaching Resource Center, which provides programming and support for faculty and teaching assistants;

 since 1992, the Teaching Resource Workshop has offered frequent workshops, including a fall orientation for new faculty graduate teaching assistants; all sessions, including the president's annual address to the opening session, address the nature and value of diversity within the University and minority students' specific needs and concerns; topics have included (among others):

 racial/ethnic issues in the classroom;

 needs of women and minority students;

 life goes to the classroom: how the realities of undergraduate life influence your effectiveness as a teacher;

 Teaching Resource Center staff members regularly consult with faculty and teaching assistants who have concerns about their students and the effectiveness of their teaching;

 the Center produced a handbook this spring entitled "Teaching a Diverse Student Body: Practical Strategies for Enhancing our Students' Learning," which is designed for distribution to all faculty and teaching assistants.

Recommendation 11: Improvement of academic advising and development of a mentoring program.

 a steering committee on student academic support was created in 1993 to examine the effectiveness of student academic advising and support and to recommend improvements; this committee has recommended that the Office of Student Academic Support be overseen by the College of Arts and Sciences that it continue to work cooperatively with Athletics and Engineering's Office of Minority Programs, which provide analogous programs for specifically identified populations;

 academic advising for lower division courses has been greatly increased; 140 faculty members (double the number in 1987) now participate in the formal advising program;

 oversight of the summer transition program is coordinated with the fall transition program; this program serves 42-50 summer enrollees and an additional 50 students who enroll separately in the fall.

Recommendation 12: Coordination and evaluation of special education programs.

This recommendation was addressed in 1988 by creating an Office of Student Academic Support, directed by an associate provost for student academic support. As recommended in by a review committee in 1993, the Office of Student Academic Support is overseen by the College of Arts & Sciences, which works cooperatively with Athletics and Engineering's Office of Minority Programs. The work of the Office of Student Academic Support is described under #11, above.

Recommendation 13: Coordination and Evaluation of Tutorial Programs.

The recommendation was addressed by establishment of the associate provost for academic support and, subsequently, the Office of Student Academic Support; it was supplemented by efforts in the Teaching Resource Center, the Athletic Department, and the SEAS Office of Minority Programs; in addition, the Teaching Resource Center provides a tutor training program.

Recommendation 14: Coordination and enhancement of the diagnosis and remediation of learning disabilities.

The recommendation was addressed by establishment of the associate provost for academic support and, subsequently, the Office of Student Academic Support. Functions include coordination and oversight of the summer and fall transition programs. A functional review, which is a regular and recurring element of quality control, of the Learning Needs and Evaluation Center was completed this year. As appropriate, the vice president for student affairs will order changes in this center.

Recommendation 15: Establishment of a committee to assure full use of the Luther P. Jackson Cultural Center.

An advisory committee to the Center -- consisting of faculty, administrators, and students -- existed prior to this recommendation in 1987. The Center's budget has grown from $28,500 in 1986-87 to $65,000 in 1993-94.

Recommendation 16: Encouragement of the University's growing emphasis of the intercultural programming by supporting incorporation of an Afro-American or African perspective into public presentations.

 a recent survey was conducted by members of the Advisory Committee on Women's Concerns and the Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Committee in 1993; schools, departments, student groups, and others provided information about current and planned activities on diversity; these initiatives involve the curriculum and ethnic and cross-cultural programming; the University will use the results to plan further diversity efforts;

 many departments include African-American themes in their courses; examples include gender and affirmative action issues in public policy, taught in government and foreign affairs, teaching in a multicultural classroom, in the Curry School; and race in American art, taught in the art department;

 the University Union's diversity committee provides diversity training and education for all Union committees; consequently, all University Union committees have sponsored programs that enhance diversity in learning;

 the Dean of Students created a videotape in 1991 on the experiences of African-American students at U.Va.; this videotape is used as an educational tool to train residence staff, student groups, administrative managers, police, and faculty; funds for production were provided by SCHEV and the Law School;

 a program was provided to educate members of historically white and historically black Greek organizations about issues confronting each group; sponsored by IFC, ISC, BFC, Dean of Students' Office, among others;

 since 1991, all fraternities and sororities have been required to present annual programs on issues of discrimination in compliance with their CIO (University affiliation) agreements.

Recommendation 17: Enhancement of the relationship between the University and the black community of Charlottesville/Albemarle.

 As a successor to the report from which these recommendations were taken, the president in 1992 established the Council on Community as a means to forge better community ties; numerous members of the surrounding community, including Rev. Alvin Edwards (formerly Charlottesville's mayor, now a City Council member) and Rudy Beverly are active participants, as are significant numbers of students, staff, and faculty;

 the University, city, and county jointly established an entity called Planning And Coordination Council in 1986; this development planning organization brings together University and government officials with community members to conduct collaborative work on joint University/city/county issues;

 using non-state funds, Nursing has established a rural health alliance with black churches;

 the University established programs that bring minority high school students to UVa for summer employment;

 University officials regularly meet with local neighborhood associations and other groups of residents to hear their concerns and to keep them abreast of construction and other projects;

 the local black community has been actively involved with University and city officials in discussions of proposals to redevelop or upgrade West Main Street, the Venable Lane task force, and others;

 without state support, Nursing has opened clinics in Crescent Hall and Westhaven, which are local public housing projects;

 since 1987, the University has published a brochure entitled University Guide, which explains how local residents can use University's programs, services, and facilities;

 since 1992, Nursing has conducted a Summer Health Care Institute for local minority high school students; this program exposes students to career options in health and is funded by gifts from U.Va. hospital auxiliaries; last summer, 20 students enrolled.

Recommendation 18: Initiation of a thorough public examination of the philosophical basis and practical realization of affirmative action.

This recommendation overlaps with virtually every element of the 1987 report. It is currently met by the charge and work of the Council on Community, the standing orders on affirmative action in faculty hiring, and the University's continuing emphasis on the values of diversity in its fund raising and other public contact programs.

Recommendation 19: Enhancement of the Afro-American and African Studies program.

 in 1989, the University matched a $150,000 Ford Foundation grant that has permitted hiring teaching assistants and faculty in the Afro-American and African Studies Program; funding is now in jeopardy because of reductions ordered by the state in 1990-93 and recommended by the former governor in his 1994-96 budget;

 in 1994, there are some 55-60 Afro-American and African Studies majors; this major is the largest undergraduate interdisciplinary major in the University;

 10 former Woodson Fellows are now full-time faculty members in the University.

Recommendation 20: Provision of a more welcoming and social environment for black students.

 residence staff have ongoing training regarding racial and ethnic issues; 26% of the residence staff is African-American; this proportion is approximately double the proportion of total enrollment of African-American students;

 Angela Davis (Dean of Students Office) and Greer Wilson (University Union) work with University Police on issues of diversity;

 BSA and BFC are invited to work with the orientation committee and to participate in orientation;

 BSA and other black student groups have standing invitations to participate in the work of the Council on Community;

 Newcomb Hall and the University Union sponsor many opportunities for staff and students to explore issues of diversity; these include retreats, workshops, case studies, black student leadership conferences, and support for Black History month and year-long events;

 multicultural facilitator groups are trained by Greer Wilson; approximately 100 students per year lead workshops and seminars on diversity issues;

 47% of student workers at Newcomb Hall and the University Union are black; 40% of University Union's governing board are minority persons;

 The Office of African American Affairs sponsors a brown bag lecture series whose topics include diversity and multiculturalism;

 Callaloo, a journal of African-American and African arts and letters, is published with funds from state, NEH, and private donors; the University provides private support from its endowment;

 In 1993, the vice president for student affairs provided funding to the Cultural Resource Center for a survey of multicultural climate issues; purpose of survey was to understand student concerns and attitudes regarding race.

Recommendation 21: Implementation of a discrimination complaint procedure.

 discrimination complaint procedures for faculty, students, and staff are widely disseminated through vehicles such as the faculty handbook, employee handbook, and the undergraduate and graduate records, which are published annually.

Recommendation 22: Study of the application of the honor system to determine if it provides equal treatment to all racial groups.

 the University, acting in behalf of the Honor Committee, commissioned a 1990 consultant's study of the honor system to evaluate the system's treatment of minority students. This study found no pattern of discriminatory treatment and strong support for the system among all identified student populations.

Recommendation 23: Appointment of blacks to high-level administrative positions.

Such appointments have been numerous in recent years, and they continue. Appointments include Bonnie Guiton-Hill as dean of the McIntire School of Commerce (1992), John W. Garland as executive assistant to the president (1993), Julian Bivins as director of development services (1993), Greer Wilson as director of Newcomb Hall (1988), Lincoln Lewis as director of equal opportunity programs (1988), Donald Jones as director of minority procurement (1991), Rick Turner as dean of the Office of African-American Affairs (1988), and Armstead Robinson as director of the Carter G. Woodson Institute (1988). The Presidential Fellows Program, established in 1992, provides higher education administrative experience to women and minority faculty; the goal is to enhance diversity of applicant pools for senior positions; funded through president's office; a similar program exists for classified staff who are women and minorities.

Recommendation 24: Establishment of the position of advisor to the president on minority affairs.

The director of the Office of Equal Opportunity Programs advises the president on minority affairs, equal opportunity, and affirmative action. Various senior level committees supplement this advisory system. Recently, the entire Equal Opportunity Office began to report to the president through his executive assistant, who works with the president on such issues on a daily basis.

Recommendation 25: Creation of the Office of Associate Provost for Student Academic Services.

This recommendation has already been addressed under # 11 - 13, above. The office was created and fully staffed in 1987. In 1993, a steering committee on student academic support made a full inventory of academic support services, distributed the information widely, initiated a tutor training program, provided departmental seed money to develop academic support services, and established a new leadership structure for the Summer Transition Program. As a result of a review conducted in 1993, this approach is being substantially altered. The Dean of the College is absorbing the functions of the office -- an arrangement that the review suggests will be more effective.

Recommendation 26: Redefinition of the mission of the Office of Afro-American Affairs.

This recommendation was carried out in connection with the hiring of the new dean in 1988. The office now focuses on academic support, multicultural issues and programming, and community outreach.

Recommendation 27: Enhancement of efforts to recruit and promote blacks in staff positions.

 in May 1993, minority persons held 19.2% (1,404 minorities: 5,912 non-minorities) of all salaried staff positions; hourly staff employees were 19.8% minorities (256 minorities: 1,035 non-minorities);

 since 1987, the Employment Services Division in the Department of Human Resources has hired 4 minority persons as professional employment analysts (out of 7 total); African-Americans comprise 57% of the Employment Services professional staff; all professional staff members are trained in affirmative action and equal employment opportunity by the director of equal opportunity programs;

 the University Temporary Employment Service employs approximately 30% minority persons in its various enterprises; this service began in 1988 to meet the temporary employment needs of the University and to increase hiring of minorities. Through this service, minorities have the opportunity to increase their general office skills and become more competitive for classified salaried employment inside and outside the University;

 a skill-oriented training program is now being developed to help UVaTEMPS increase word-processing and spreadsheet skills; the program's goals are to improve the office skills of temporaries and to increase the hiring of minorities into full-time classified salaried positions;

 a joint U.Va. and Monticello Area Community Action Agency partnership supports the Summer Youth Works! Program; the program will employ at least 20 economically disadvantaged youths this summer; most participants will be minorities between the ages of 16 and 21;

 a partnership among U.Va., Monticello Area Community Action Agency, and Charlottesville Redevelopment & Housing Authority assists residents of public housing in finding jobs, obtaining preventative health care, and increasing educational opportunities; this program began in summer 1993 and has facilitated hiring of 7 African-American Westhaven residents into full-time salaried positions in Medical Records Department;

 the University of Virginia Skilled Crafts Apprenticeship Program has hired 15 minority persons (45% of total positions offered) since 1987; of the 7 new apprentices hired for full-time salaried positions in 1993, 4 were African-Americans;

 a new University Employment System was developed and implemented in 1990; this system ensures that all minority persons who meet job posting criteria are referred to hiring departments.