Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

January 25, 2002

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2008

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

February 8, 2002 MEMORANDUMELECTION OF THE STUDENT MEMBER FOR 2002-2003
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

TO:

The Board of Visitors:

John P. Ackerly, III, Rector

Thomas J. Bliley, Jr.

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

Timothy B. Robertson

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

Terence P. Ross

Thomas F. Farrell, II

Thomas A. Saunders, III

Charles L. Glazer

Elizabeth A. Twohy

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

Benjamin P.A. Warthen

T. Keister Greer

Joseph E. Wolfe

Elsie Goodwyn Holland

Sasha L. Wilson

FROM:

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

SUBJECT:

Correction to the Minutes of the Meeting of the Board of Visitors

Copies to:

President John T. Casteen, III

Vice President Leonard W. Sandridge

TO: The Board of Visitors: John P. Ackerly, III, Rector Thomas J. Bliley, Jr. Gordon F. Rainey, Jr. Charles M. Caravati, Jr. Timothy B. Robertson William G. Crutchfield, Jr. Terence P. Ross Thomas F. Farrell, II Thomas A. Saunders, III Charles L. Glazer Elizabeth A. Twohy William H. Goodwin, Jr. Benjamin P.A. Warthen T. Keister Greer Joseph E. Wolfe Elsie Goodwyn Holland Sasha L. Wilson FROM: Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. SUBJECT: Correction to the Minutes of the Meeting of the Board of Visitors

The Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors of January 25-26, 2002, should be corrected as follows: on page 6132, the following should be added:

Reporting on a decision made by the Executive Committee after interviewing the finalists among the candidates for the position of Student Member, the Rector recommended that Herbert Timothy Lovelace, Jr., of Roanoke, be elected the next Student Member. The Board accordingly adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED that Herbert Timothy Lovelace, Jr., is elected the Student Member of the Board of Visitors for 2002-2003; Mr. Lovelace's term is to begin at the conclusion of the April, 2002 meeting of the Board and will end at the conclusion of the April, 2003 Board meeting.

MEMORANDUM Page Two February 8, 2002

Also on page 6132, the first paragraph under REPORT ON DEPARTMENT NAME CHANGE should be changed to read as follows:

The Board heard a report from the Provost on the renaming of the Woodrow Wilson Department of Government and Foreign Affairs as the Woodrow Wilson Department of Politics. No Board action was required.

AGG:jb

Copies to: President John T. Casteen, III Vice President Leonard W. Sandridge

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS JANUARY 25-26, 2002
----------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Establishment of the Virginia Microelectronics Consortium Professorship in Engineering

6095

Renaming of the Arthur Andersen & Company Alumni Professorship in Commerce

6095

Renaming of the Caddell & Conwell Professorship in Law

6096

Resolution of Commendation for Deborah A. Ryan

6096

Resolution on the Appalachian School of Law

6097

Approval of Quasi-Endowment Actions

6099

Approval of Miller Center Council Member

6099

Conflict of Interest Exemption (Sport Tech, Inc.)

6100

Approval of a Permanent Easement for the Evan Energy Company, LC Across University of Virginia Property Located at the University of Virginia's College at Wise

6100

Approval of a Permanent Easement for the Virginia Electric and Power Company Across University of Virginia Property Located Between the Miller Center and Klockner Stadium

6101

Approval to Remove an Equipment Storage Building atthe Former Perry-Fishburne Tennis Courts

6101

Creation of the University of Virginia Medical Center Operating Board

6102

Approval of Property Transfer from University of Virginia Foundation (University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation) for Emmet Street Parking Structure

6105

Approval of Student Housing Rates for 2002-2003

6107

PAGE

Approval of 2002-2004 Legislative Capital Budget Amendments for the Academic Division and Medical Center

6111

Approval of Acquisition of 120 11th Street, S.W.

6111

Fraternity and Sorority Investment Program

6112

Memorial Resolution for Jerry Vincent Glover

6115

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

6115

Actions Relating to Chairholders

6120

Elections of Chairholders

6120

Changes of Title of Chairholders

6120

Change in the Title of the Election of Dr. Dennis J. Templeton

6120

Special Salary Actions of Chairholders

6121

Retirements of Chairholders

6121

Promotions

6121

Special Salary Actions

6122

Resignations

6125

Retirement

6126

Appointments

6126

Re-appointments

6127

Election of Professors Emeriti

6127

Election of Mr. R. Edward Howell as Vice President And Chief Executive Officer of the University of Virginia Medical Center

6127

Deaths

6127

Change in the Appointment of Mr. Paul E. Norris, Jr.

6128

Change in the Election of Ms. Stephanie D. Van Hover

6128

Change in the Election of Mr. Michael J. Moore

6128

Change in the Election of Dr. George D. Politis

6129

Approval of Reporting Relationships and Supervisory Structure for Dual Employment Situation

6129

The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Special Salary Action

6130

Resignations

6131

Appointment

6131

Re-appointment

6131

PAGE

ACTIONS TAKEN BY BOARD COMMITTEES

Approval of Architect Selection for New Arts and Sciences Building and New Cabell Hall Replacement Building

6132

Change in the Minutes of the Meeting of the Board of Visitors, Dated October 19, 2001, Approving the Board's Representatives to the Governing Boards of University-Related Foundations

6132

Election of the Student Member for 2002-2003

6132

Investment of $25million with ABRY Partners

6132

Investment of $85Million with Adage Capital Management

6132

Investment of $25million with Claiborne Capital Group

6133

Investment of $50million with SAB Capital Management

6133

Investment of $25million with TOSCA

6133

Investment of $50million in Catequil Asset Management

6133

Investment of $25million with Argus

6133

Sale of BGI Value ($37million)

6133

Sale of John W. Bristol ($58million)

6133

Sale of Marsico Capital Management ($40million)

6133

Sale of Andor Capital Management ($45million)

6133

Sale of ten percent of Maverick Capital Management position.

6133

Additional investments of $25million in Glenview Capital Management and Claiborne Capital Group

6133

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS January 25-26, 2002
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 8:30 a.m., Friday, January 25, 2002, in the Board Room of the Rotunda; John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, presided. Thomas J. Bliley, Jr., Charles M. Caravati, Jr., M.D., William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Thomas F. Farrell, II, Charles L. Glazer, William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Timothy B. Robertson, Terence P. Ross, Thomas A. Saunders, III, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, and Ms. Sasha L. Wilson were present.

Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Ms. Yoke San Reynolds, R. Ariel Gomez, M.D., William W. Harmon, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Rector welcomed Mr. R. Edward Howell, who will assume his duties as Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center in February. Mr. Howell attended most sessions of the Board meeting as well as meetings of Board committees.

On motion, the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors of October 18-19, 2001, were approved.

The President gave his customary report, the greater part of which was given over to an account of the state budget as it affects the University. There have been significant budget cuts announced by the Governor. Some of these had been anticipated by the University but others are more serious than had been expected. Arts & Sciences is more vulnerable than most areas of the University to cuts of this sort. Of particular concern, however, is the state's failure to grant salary raises to faculty and staff for the second straight year. The faculty are dropping yet further behind their peer group and the cost of living in Charlottesville, which is among the highest in the state, is having a substantial impact on faculty and staff.

The President expressed grave concern about two proposals under discussion in the General Assembly which would cap out-of-state enrollment at the University. He explained why measures of this sort are bad policy for the University as well as for higher education in general in Virginia. He reported as well on the Governor's proposal to revert to the state revenue generated by the small increase in tuition that would be allowed by this proposal, which the President characterized as a tax on college students and their parents.

Mr. Sandridge then gave a brief report on emergency planning at the University in light of the events of September 11th, 2001.

The President resumed with his customary report on gifts and grants, noting particularly a gift of $3.9million from Mr. and Mrs. Goodwin to the Health System for the Human Immune Therapy Center, as well as $560,000 given by the John M. Olin Foundation to the Law School.

By resolution, the Board accepted the report on gifts and grants.

The President concluded his remarks by noting that University employees gave more than $550,000 to the Combined Virginia Campaign, which was the highest amount raised by any state agency. He then offered condolences to the Appalachian School of Law and to the Vice Chair of its board, Mr. Wolfe, on the recent tragedy at the School.

The Board recessed at 9:05 a.m. to begin Committee meetings.

The Board resumed its meeting as the full Board, in Open Session, at 2:05 p.m.; all Members present at the earlier meeting, along with Mr. Wolfe, were present.

The Board adopted the following resolutions:

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE VIRGINIA MICROELECTRONICS CONSORTIUM PROFESSORSHIP IN ENGINEERING
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, The Virginia Semiconductor Education Endowment of Richmond has given $1million to the University for the establishment of a professorship; and

WHEREAS, the donor has specified that the gift be used to support a scholar with expertise in the development and manufacture of microelectronics and semiconductor technology;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors thanks the Virginia Semiconductor Education Endowment for its generosity and establishes the Virginia Microelectronics Consortium Professorship in Engineering, to be held in the School of Engineering and Applied Science.

RENAMING OF THE ARTHUR ANDERSEN & COMPANY ALUMNI PROFESSORSHIP IN COMMERCE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Alumni of the University employed by Arther Andersen & Company made gifts to establish a professorship in the McIntire School of Commerce, and their gifts were matched with generous donations from Arthur Andersen & Company; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors established the Arthur Andersen & Company Alumni Professorship in Commerce in 1983; and

WHEREAS, Arthur Andersen & Company in March, 2001, changed its corporate name to Andersen and has requested that the name of the Professorship be changed to reflect this change in corporate name;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors renames the Arthur Andersen & Company Alumni Professorship the Andersen Alumni Professorship in Commerce, the chair to continue to be held in the McIntire School of Commerce.

RENAMING OF THE CADDELL & CONWELL PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors in 1993 established the Caddell & Conwell Professorship in Law with a generous gift from Michael A. Caddell and Tracey D. Conwell, then law partners in Houston; and

WHEREAS, the firm of Caddell and Conwell has been dissolved; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Caddell has requested, with the approval of Ms. Conwell, that the Professorship be renamed to reflect the present name of his law firm, Caddell & Chapman;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors renames the Caddell & Conwell Professorship in Law the Caddell & Chapman Professorship in Law, to be held in the School of Law, and thanks Mr. Caddell and Ms. Cynthia B. Chapman, the principals in the firm, for their continuing generosity to the Law School.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION FOR DEBORAH A. RYAN
----------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Deborah A. Ryan, known to everyone as Debbie, became Head Coach of the University of Virginia Women's Basketball Team in 1977; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Ryan thus is in her 25th year as Head Coach; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Ryan has led her team to three ACC titles, one NCAA Championship Game appearance, 18 consecutive NCAA Tournament appearances and herself has been named ACC Coach of the Year seven times, among many other honors for her team and for herself; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Ryan was honored by the General Assembly in 1997 and named Outstanding Woman of the Year by the Virginia Women's Forum in 1991;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors commends Debbie Ryan for twenty-five years of outstanding leadership and wishes her and the Women's Basketball Team every success for the remainder of the 2001-2002 season.

RESOLUTION ON THE APPALACHIAN SCHOOL OF LAW
-------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Appalachian School of Law was established in Grundy in 1997; and

WHEREAS, the School, in the few years of its existence, has become a source of pride for the people of Southwest Virginia, enjoying considerable support and in turn contributing significantly to life in the region; and

WHEREAS, the Dean, a member of the faculty and a student were killed at the School in senseless murders on January 16th;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors joins the people of Southwest Virginia in deploring this outrage, and expresses its deep sympathy to the families of the victims and to the Board, the faculty and the student body of the Appalachian School of Law.

After adopting the following motions permitting it to go into Executive Session, the Board continued its meeting in Executive Session until 4:15 p.m., when it recessed for fifteen minutes.

That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the External Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss endowment fundraising and donor prospects, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (4) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to be advised by and discuss with General Counsel both pending and probable litigation involving the University; to further evaluate and discuss with General Counsel proposed strategy with respect to a contested personnel matter and certain contractual terms governing procurements; and to be informed on legal developments with regard to admissions criteria; as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1), (2), and (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to consider and discuss, and to be advised by General Counsel on applicable legal parameters, the investing of University funds and fundraising in order to acquire and improve local real estate and buildings, where bargaining and negotiations will likely be involved and disclosure at this time will be contrary to the University's financial interests; as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (3), (6), (7) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for a briefing on pending student disciplinary cases and discussion with General Counsel; as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (2) and (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to consider the appointment of a student member to the Board of Visitors in accordance with Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss or consider the acquisition of real property adjacent to the Medical Center to accommodate the future growth of the Medical Center and Medical School, where discussion in an open session could adversely affect the negotiating strategy of the public body, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (3) of the Code of Virginia.

Resuming at 4:30 p.m., still in Executive Session, the Board recessed at 5:45 p.m.

After Committee meetings on the morning of Saturday, January 26, 2002, the Board resumed its meeting, in Executive Session, at 9:35 a.m., recessed at 10:05 a.m., resumed at 10:20 a.m., and after adopting a resolution attesting to the legality of its Executive Sessions, resumed its meeting in Open Session. All Members present at the previous day's meetings, save Messrs. Ross and Saunders, were present for these meetings.

"That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session."

Meeting in Open Session, the Board approved the following resolutions:

APPROVAL OF QUASI-ENDOWMENT ACTIONS
-----------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Law School has requested the divestment of $2,000,000 of the Roy C. Moyston Fund for the purpose of funding costs for the renovation of Withers-Brown Hall.

RESOLVED that the divestment of $2,000,000 from the Roy C. Moyston Fund be approved.

APPROVAL OF MILLER CENTER COUNCIL MEMBER
----------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Mr. Andrew D. Hart, Jr., be elected to the Governing Council of the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs, for a three-year term.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION (SPORT TECH, INC.)
-------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, The University of Virginia wishes to enter into contracts with Sport Tech, Inc., to provide specialized research apparatus; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Stuart S. Berr, a member of the faculty of the School of Medicine, and Mr. Arie M. Rijke, a member of the research faculty of the School of Engineering, have equity interests in Sport Tech, Inc., which exceed three percent; and

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia's research agreement with Sport Tech, Inc., would thereby expose Mr. Berr and Mr. Rijketo violation of the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act unless approved by the Board as permitted by Section 2.1-639.6(c) (7) of the Code of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the conflict of interest of Mr. Stuart S. Berr and Mr. Arie M. Rijke is approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to enter into an agreement with Sport Tech, Inc., to provide specialized apparatus; provided, as required by the law, Mr. Berr and Mr. Rijke file the required annual disclosure statement of personal interests in Sport Tech, Inc., and the University files the required annual report concerning the contracts with the Secretary of the Commonwealth.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR THE EVAN ENERGY COMPANY, LC ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY LOCATED AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, dated December 13, 2001, to Evan Energy Company, LC for a natural gas pipeline on the east side of the campus of The University of Virginia's College at Wise on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easement.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR THE VIRGINIA ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY LOCATED BETWEEN THE MILLER CENTER AND KLOCKNER STADIUM
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, dated December 13, 2001, to Virginia Electric and Power Company for an electric power line running in a north-south direction between the Miller Center and Klockner Stadium from Faulkner Drive to the Baseball Field on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easement.

Mr. Farrell abstained from voting on this resolution to avoid possible conflict of interest.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE AN EQUIPMENT STORAGE BUILDING AT THE FORMER PERRY-FISHBURNE TENNIS COURTS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University owns an equipment storage building (FAACS Building Number: 207-5579) at the former Perry-Fishburne Tennis Courts at University Hall in the City of Charlottesville; and

WHEREAS, this structure is no longer used and is in need of repair; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources;

WHEREAS, the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources have approved the removal of this structure;

RESOLVED that the removal of the equipment storage building (207-5579) at the former Perry-Fishburne Tennis Courts is approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned building, and that the said officer ensure that the required report regarding the building's removal is sent to the Department of General Services.

CREATION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD
---------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, a special subcommittee of the Board of Visitors, appointed by the Rector, has determined that in order to better operate and manage the Medical Center, the Board should establish a standing subcommittee of the Health Affairs Committee with exclusive responsibility for Medical Center operations;

RESOLVED that the 1996 delegation of authority to the Medical Policy Council is repealed and a standing subcommittee of the Board of Visitors is created, to be known hereafter as the University of Virginia Medical Center Operating Board. The Board shall be the governing board of the Medical Center for Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospital Organizations purposes, and with the general powers and duties set forth below; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Rector and the chairs of the Health Affairs and Finance Committees shall be ex-officio voting members, the Rector shall choose two other members of the Board of Visitors who shall be voting members, and shall name the chair of the University of Virginia Medical Center Operating Board; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors may appoint no more than four public members to serve, without compensation save reimbursement of expenses as permitted by University policy, to be non-voting members with initial terms not to exceed four years, with eligibility of reappointment for one additional consecutive four-year term, such that no member shall be eligible to serve more than two successive terms; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University, the President of the Clinical Staff of the Medical Center and the Dean/Vice President of the School of Medicine shall serve as non-voting advisory members; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the University of Virginia Medical Center Operating Board shall have the following duties and responsibilities:

RESOLVED FURTHER that the University of Virginia Medical Center Operating Board shall report its actions to the Health Affairs Committee at the following meeting of the Committee; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officials of the University are authorized to take all actions necessary to carry out this resolution; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that all affiliated organizations providing clinical services or professional graduate medical education using University of Virginia facilities or resources shall, as a condition of their use of such facilities or resources, be subject to the authority of and the policies (including medical staff bylaws) adopted by the University of Virginia Medical Center Operating Board with respect to the provision of clinical services and professional graduate medical education at or in University of Virginia facilities; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that all such policies relating to the provision of clinical services or professional graduate medical education adopted by the University of Virginia Medical Center Operating Board shall likewise govern the professional graduate medical education and clinical activities of affiliated organizations at or in non-University facilities and the University of Virginia Medical Center Operating Board is directed to take steps necessary to ensure that the aforesaid policies, and any changes thereto, are in a timely way communicated to and adopted by such affiliated organizations; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Manual of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia shall be amended by adding language defining the University of Virginia Medical Center Operating Board and its responsibilities to Section 3.25; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that this resolution and the Manual of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia shall serve as the bylaws of the University of Virginia Medical Center Operating Board; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that this authorization shall continue in effect until repealed or otherwise modified by the Board of Visitors.

APPROVAL OF PROPERTY TRANSFER FROM UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FOUNDATION (UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA REAL ESTATE FOUNDATION) FOR EMMET STREET PARKING STRUCTURE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the "Valentine-Massie" properties and improvements containing a total of approximately 11.7 acres, on Ivy Road and Emmet Street in Charlottesville, were purchased by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in 1983 as part of the acquisition of properties along Ivy Road and Emmet Street; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors approved the transfer of this property to the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation at its October 1988 meeting under the terms of section 4-4.01p of the 1988 Virginia Acts of Assembly, which authorized the Governor of Virginia to approve transfers of real estate to an affiliated foundation of a public institution of higher education in Virginia when he finds that the property was acquired with local or private funds or by gift or grant to or for the institution; and

WHEREAS, an analysis of available property in close proximity to the Athletic Precinct and the Central Grounds indicates that the Ivy Road portion of this property would be an ideal site for the proposed Emmet Street Parking Structure;

RESOLVED, subject to the approval of the Governor of Virginia, that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia authorizes the transfer and conveyance of 7.2 acres of said Valentine-Massie property back to the University of Virginia for the construction of the Emmet Street Parking Structure;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer for the University of Virginia is authorized, upon securing the approval of the Governor of Virginia as aforesaid, to execute the appropriate deed or other documents approved by General Counsel necessary to effectuate the foregoing transfer and conveyance. The Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is further authorized to reimburse the University of Virginia Foundation for costs incurred by the University of Virginia Foundation for improvements and management associated with the transferred portion of the Valentine-Massie property and for any costs associated with the use of the Cavalier Inn and/or adjacent property as egress from the parking garage site.

APPROVAL OF STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 2002-2003
-----------------------------------------------

Facility

Actual 2001-2002 Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

% Increase Before Improvement Fee

Student Housing Improvement Fund Fee

Total Percent Increase

Proposed 2002-2003 Per Strudent Per Session

ACADEMIC DIVISION

DORMITORIES

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Double Room

$2,230

$90

4.04%

$100

8.52%

$2,420

Brown College

Double Room

$2,790

$110

3.94%

$100

7.53%

$3,000

McCormick Road

Double Room

$2,130

$90

4.23%

$100

8.92%

$2,320

Small Double Room

$1,940

$80

4.12%

$100

9.28%

$2,120

Single

$2,240

$90

4.02%

$100

8.48%

$2,430

Lawn

Small Single

$2,650

$110

4.15%

$100

7.92%

$2,860

Regular Single

$2,650

$110

4.15%

$100

7.92%

$2,860

Small Single (no fireplace)

$2,580

$100

3.88%

$100

7.75%

$2,780

Range

Regular Single

$2,650

$110

4.15%

$100

7.92%

$2,860

Crackerbox

Single Room

$2,650

$110

4.15%

$100

7.92%

$2,860

Mary Munford/Roberta Gwathmey

Double Room

$2,230

$90

4.04%

$100

8.52%

$2,420

Single Room

$2,650

$110

4.15%

$100

7.92%

$2,860

Sprigg (Lewis/Hoxton)

Double Room

$2,540

$100

3.94%

$100

7.87%

$2,740

Single Room

$2,830

$110

3.89%

$100

7.42%

$3,040

Single Room w/bath

$2,970

$120

4.04%

$100

7.41%

$3,190

Gooch/Dillard

Double Room

$2,540

$100

3.94%

$100

7.87%

$2,740

Single Room

$2,830

$110

3.89%

$100

7.42%

$3,040

Twelve Month Rate: Single Room

$3,990

$160

4.01%

$100

6.52%

$4,250

Facility

Actual 2001-2002 Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

% Increase Before Improvement Fee

Student Housing Improvement Fund Fee

Total Percent Increase

Proposed 2002-2003 Per Strudent Per Session

Double Room

$2,550

$90

3.53%

$100

7.45%

$2,740

Single Room

$2,790

$110

3.94%

$100

7.53%

$3,000

French House

Triple Room

$2,400

$100

4.17%

$100

8.33%

$2,600

Double Room

$2,540

$100

3.94%

$100

7.87%

$2,740

Single Room

$2,880

$120

4.17%

$100

7.64%

$3,100

German House

Single Room

$2,580

$100

3.88%

$100

7.75%

$2,780

Russia House

Double Room

$2,450

$100

4.08%

$100

8.16%

$2,650

Single Room

$2,820

$110

3.90%

$100

7.45%

$3,030

Spanish House

Double Room

$2,580

$100

3.88%

$100

7.75%

$2,780

Single Room

$2,880

$120

4.17%

$100

7.64%

$3,100

Monroe Lane House

Double Room

$0

$2,740

Single Room

$0

$3,100

APARTMENTS —; SINGLE STUDENT

Copeley Hill III, IV, Lambeth Field

Two Bedroom (double occupancy)

$2,570

$100

3.89%

$100

7.78%

$2,770

Three Bedroom (double occupancy)

$2,470

$100

4.05%

$100

8.10%

$2,670

Bice House

Two Bedroom (double occupancy)

$2,570

$100

3.89%

$100

7.78%

$2,770

Three Bedroom (double occupancy)

$2,470

$100

4.05%

$100

8.10%

$2,670

Faulkner (Hench, Mitchell, Younger)

Single

$2,870

$120

4.18%

$100

7.67%

$3,090

Large Single

$3,500

$140

4.00%

$100

6.86%

$3,740

Facility

Actual 2001-2002 Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

% Increase Before Improvement Fee

Student Housing Improvement Fund Fee

Total Percent Increase

Proposed 2002-2003 Per Strudent Per Session

APARTMENTS —; FAMILY (per month)

Copeley Hill I & II

One Bedroom (furnished)

$541

$22

4.00%

$10

5.91%

$573

One Bedroom (unfurnished)

$512

$20

4.00%

$10

5.86%

$542

Two Bedroom (furnished)

$596

$24

4.00%

$10

5.70%

$630

Two Bedroom (unfurnished)

$567

$23

4.00%

$10

5.82%

$600

Three Bedroom (furnished)

$646

$26

4.00%

$10

5.57%

$682

Three Bedroom (unfurnished)

$617

$25

4.00%

$10

5.67%

$652

University Gardens

One Bedroom (furnished)

$524

$21

4.00%

$10

6.11%

$556

One Bedroom (unfurnished)

$495

$20

4.00%

$10

6.26%

$526

Two Bedroom (furnished)

$566

$23

4.00%

$10

6.01%

$600

Two Bedroom (unfurnished)

$537

$22

4.00%

$10

6.15%

$570

Other Housing Rates

Graduate Housing

$25

$5

20.00%

$0

20.00%

$30

Late Stay—;Early Arrival

$10

$2

20.00%

$0

20.00%

$12

COLLEGE AT WISE

McCraray, Martha Randolph

$2,538

$71

2.80%

$0

2.80%

$2,609

Asbury Thompson, Henson, Townhouses

$2,932

$82

2.80%

$0

2.80%

$3,014

MOUNTAIN LAKE BIOLOGICAL STATION RATES

Actual 2001

Proposed 2002 Rate

Percent Increase

BOARD RATES PER TERM (4 weeks)

Persons 17 years & older

$500.00

$513.00

2.60%

Persons 10-16 years old

$300.00

$308.00

2.67%

Persons 9 yrs & younger

$160.00

$164.00

2.50%

SUMMER HOUSING RATES PER TERM (4 weeks)

CABINS

$168.00

$172.00

2.38%

LAING APTS

$128.00

$131.00

2.34%

DORMS/SINGLES

$91.00

$93.00

2.20%

NEW DORM:

2nd bedroom (family)Apts (2 rooms)

$147.00

$151.00

2.72%

$47.00

$48.00

2.13%

Singles

$104.00

$107.00

2.88%

PRESEASON RATES (2 week May session)

Communities:

Food

$225.00

$245.00

8.89%

Rent

$92.50

$95.00

2.70%

Van

$55.00

$55.00

0.00%

Insurance

$15.00

$7.79

\-51.93%

OFF SEASON RATES

Singles/Guests:

Night

$10.50

$11.00

4.76%

Week

$52.50

$54.00

2.86%

Month

$210.00

$216.00

2.86%

Family:

Night

$14.00

$14.50

3.57%

Week

$70.00

$72.00

2.86%

Month

$280.00

$288.00

2.86%

GROUP USE FEES (OFF-SEASON)

Classroom/day

$30.00

$30.00

0.00%

Dining Hall/day

$55.00

$55.00

0.00%

New Dorm Kitchen/day

$30.00

$30.00

0.00%

Auditorium/day

$30.00

$30.00

0.00%

Pavilion only

No charge

Computer Lab/day

$ 0.00

$50.00

Cabins:

Hariot, Leconte, Catesby, Banister, Gattinger, Holbrook, Mitchell, Maphis, Schoew, Rafinesque, Burns, Michaux, Clayton, Hentz-Mohr and Washington.

Laing Apartments:

Laing South, North, Center, Northwest and West.

Dorms/Singles:

Chapman, Elliott, DeSchweinitz, Audubon, Laing Singles, Laundry and other cottages when used as dorms.

RESOLVED that rental increases for student housing facilities be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 2002-2003 session:

APPROVAL OF 2002-2004 LEGISLATIVE CAPITAL BUDGET AMENDMENTS FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND MEDICAL CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, on April 7, 2001, the Rector and Visitors approved the Six-Year Capital Plan from which the list of capital budget amendments to be submitted to the Governor was developed; and

WHEREAS, the University has identified additional projects to be funded with gifts, grants and other internally generated revenue; and

WHEREAS, several new non-general funded capital projects of a high priority for the Academic Division and the Medical Center have been added to those legislative amendments; and

WHEREAS, the additional requests are consistent with the mission of the institution and with its strategic plan;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia endorses and supports the legislative budget amendment requests; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to transmit the amendment requests to the General Assembly.

APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF 120 11TH STREET S.W.
-----------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, The University of Virginia desires to purchase real estate located at 120 11th Street S.W., Charlottesville, from Word Merchants Ltd., consisting of .4250 acres of land as shown on a physical survey of the property recorded at Page 362 of Deed Book 400 in the Clerk's Office of the City of Charlottesville, and all buildings, improvements, fixtures and equipment located thereon and all rights and appurtenances pertaining thereto, for the approximate purchase price of $1,200,000; and

WHEREAS, approval of the acquisition of real estate under Section 2.2-1149 of the Code of Virginia has been delegated to the Board of Visitors; and

WHEREAS, the acquisition of this property will address future space needs of the University of Virginia Medical Center.

RESOLVED that the acquisition of the aforesaid property at 120 11th Street S.W., Charlottesville, consisting of .4250 acres in the City of Charlottesville, consistent with the foregoing conditions and on the terms and conditions as recommended by the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, is approved;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all contracts and other documents pertaining to the acquisition of the aforesaid property may be deemed necessary or appropriate.

FRATERNITY AND SORORITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM
------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors acknowledges the important role that fraternities and sororities have played, and continue to play, in the lives of students at the University, and the contributions that such student organizations have made, and will continue to make, to the University community; and

WHEREAS, while the fraternities and sororities are independent and private associations, the Board is committed to supporting appropriately their efforts to provide safe and appropriate physical accommodations for their members and students of this University; and

WHEREAS, evidencing its commitment, the Board wishes to authorize a new pilot program providing limited financial assistance in the way of loans and other financial commitments to such student organizations' House Corporations needing funds to renovate existing housing facilities, who responsibly seek the assistance of the University for such purpose or to provide on-Grounds fraternity and sorority housing; and

WHEREAS any program involving fraternities and sororities should be designed to include appropriate participation and firm commitments by the house membership, alumni and the University; and

WHEREAS the Board expects all organizations associated with the University to comply with all local, state and federal laws as well as applicable University rules and regulations.

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors authorizes the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer in consultation with the Vice President for Student Affairs and the General Counsel and subject to all applicable state, University and Board policies and approvals, to establish and administer a program authorizing loan funds and other financial commitments for improvements to off-Grounds fraternity and sorority houses or to provide on-Grounds fraternity and sorority housing; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that funds for this purpose are allocated from other than general appropriations to the University, provided, any such loan and other financial commitments must be approved by the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, or his designee, following due diligence review with respect to repayment of any indebtedness and justification for any financial commitments, and who shall be authorized on behalf of the University to execute any and all papers associated with such programs; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that (a) loan(s) —; meaning unpaid principal and other financial commitments —; to all fraternities or sororities requesting such assistance and selected for participation in the program shall not exceed in the aggregate the sum of $3 million without the further approval of the Board, (b) loans shall be adequately secured or collateralized as approved by the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, or his designee, (c) interest shall be charged on loans at market rates, and (d) fraternities or sororities participating in this program shall commit affirmatively to rehabilitate their physical quarters in accordance with plans or designs approved by the University as well as to monitor and oversee their social activities in strict compliance with applicable laws, University policies, rules of any national or local governing association or of the Inter-Fraternity Council; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that such financial commitments will be made only in those cases where the University's assets and investments can be appropriately protected; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that, as a condition of participation in such programs, fraternities and sororities shall be required to achieve a standard of performance relative to the management of social activities, compliance with University policies, oversight of business operations and care of houses and furnishings that are acceptable to the University on an ongoing basis; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer shall report to the Board on a regular basis on all actions taken under this authority.

REPORT ON ACTIONS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE• APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR NEW ARTS AND SCIENCES BUILDING AND NEW CABELL HALL REPLACEMENT BUILDING• CHANGE IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, DATED OCTOBER 19, 2001, APPROVING THE BOARD'S REPRESENTATIVES TO THE GOVERNING BOARDS OF UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Law School Alumni

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

12/31/05

Association and Foundation, University Of Virginia.

Mr. Leonard Sandridge, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, reported on the following actions taken by the Executive Committee at its meeting on November 15, 2001:

RESOLVED that the Polshek Partnership of New York, in association with SMBW Architects, P.C. of Richmond, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the New Arts & Sciences Building and the New Cabell Hall Replacement Building.

RESOLVED that the resolution of the Board of Visitors of October 19, 2001, approving the Board's representatives to the governing boards of University-related foundations, be changed to read as follows: Law School Alumni Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.12/31/05Association and Foundation, University Of Virginia.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR JERRY VINCENT GLOVER
--------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Jerry Vincent Glover was born in Alleghany County in 1961, raised in Lynchburg and matriculated in the University in 1979; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Glover achieved distinction as a varsity football player and as a student leader, winning the Gray-Carrington Award and among many other honors, being a member of the IMP Society and the Seven Society; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Glover took his undergraduate degree in 1983 and returned to the University three years later to enter the Darden School, from which he took his MBA in 1988; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Glover served as the Student Member of the Board of Visitors in 1987-1988; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Glover died on December 23, 2001;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors takes note of Mr. Glover's service on the Board and his devotion to the University, and extends its deepest sympathy to his widow and his family.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Elections of Chairholders(b) Change of Titles of Chairholders(c) Change in the Title of the Election of Dr. Dennis J. Templeton(d) Special Salary Actions of Chairholders(e) Retirements of ChairholdersPROMOTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTAPPOINTMENTSRE-APPOINTMENTSELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITIELECTION OF MR. R. EDWARD HOWELL AS VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTERDEATHSCHANGE IN THE APPOINTMENT OF MR. PAUL E. NORRIS, JR.CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MS. STEPHANIE D. VAN HOVERCHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MR. MICHAEL J. MOORECHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF DR. GEORGE D. POLITISAPPROVAL OF REPORTING RELATIONSHIPS AND SUPERVISORY STRUCTURE FOR DUAL EMPLOYMENT SITUATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons were elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders were approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the election of Dr. Dennis J. Templeton as Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 2001, at an annual salary of $100,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting on October 19, 2001, was changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the following persons were promoted:

RESOLVED that the following persons received the salary indicated:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirement was announced:

The following appointments were announced:

The following re-appointments were announced:

RESOLVED that the following persons were elected Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that Mr. R. Edward Howell was elected as Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the University of Virginia Medical Center, for five years, effective February 25, 2002, at an annual salary of $500,000.

The following deaths were announced:

The President announced that the appointment of Mr. Paul E. Norris, Jr., as Chief of Police, for three years, effective July 25, 2001, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting on June 16, 2001, was changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Stephanie D. Van Hover as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective August 25, 2001, at an academic year salary of $45,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting on October 19, 2001, was changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the election of Mr. Michael J. Moore as Professor of Business Administration, effective August 25, 2001, at an academic year salary of $128,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting on October 19, 2001, was changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the election of Dr. George D. Politis as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective August 1, 2001, at an annual salary of $100,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting on October 19, 2001, was changed to read as follows:

WHEREAS, the Virginia Conflict of Interest Act permits the dual employment of immediate family members by public institutions of higher education that would otherwise be prohibited by the Act, subject to the following conditions:

WHEREAS, George T. Rodeheaver, Ph.D., and Pamela F. Rodeheaver, who are married to each other, are both employees in the School of Medicine, Department of Plastic Surgery; and

WHEREAS, George T. Rodeheaver is the director of the laboratory in which Pamela F. Rodeheaver is a research associate.

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors found it in the best interest of the University of Virginia and the Commonwealth to employ George T. Rodeheaver and Pamela F. Rodeheaver in their respective positions in the School of Medicine, Department of Plastic Surgery; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the reporting relationship and supervisory structure shall be as follows: (a) in Pamela F. Rodeheaver's capacity as a research associate in George T. Rodeheaver's laboratory, she reports directly to and is supervised by Raymond F. Morgan, M.D., Chair of the Department of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery; and (b) regarding George T. Rodeheaver's position as director of his laboratory, there is no reporting or supervisory relationship between George T. Rodeheaver and Pamela F. Rodeheaver.

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISEACTION RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDER(a) Special Salary Action of Chairholder:SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSAPPOINTMENTRE-APPOINTMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the action relating to the chairholder was approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the following persons received the salary indicated:

The following resignations were announced:

The following appointment was announced:Ms. Claire I. Eldridge as Vice Chancellor for Development and College Relations, The University of Virginia's College at Wise, for the period December 15, 2001, through June 24, 2005, at an annual salary of $110,000.

The following re-appointment was announced:

REPORT ON DEPARTMENT NAME CHANGE
--------------------------------

The Board heard a report from the Provost on the renaming of the Woodrow Wilson Department of Government and Foreign Affairs as the Woodrow Wilson Department of Politics. No Board action was required.

The following actions were taken by the Board of Directors of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company after the Board meeting of October 1819; they did not require action by the full Board and are listed here as a matter of record:

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, NOVEMBER 15, 2001:APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR NEW ARTS AND SCIENCES BUILDING AND NEW CABELL HALL REPLACEMENT BUILDINGCHANGE IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, DATED OCTOBER 19, 2001, APPROVING THE BOARD'S REPRESENTATIVES TO THE GOVERNING BOARDS OF UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Law School Alumni

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

12/31/05

Association and Foundation, University Of Virginia.

RESOLVED that the Polshek Partnership of New York, in association with SMBW Architects, P.C. of Richmond, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the New Arts & Sciences Building and the New Cabell Hall Replacement Building.

RESOLVED that the resolution of the Board of Visitors of October 19, 2001, approving the Board's representatives to the governing boards of University-related foundations, be changed to read as follows:

ELECTION OF THE STUDENT MEMBER FOR 2002-2003
--------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Herbert Timothy Lovelace, Jr., is elected the Student Member of the Board of Visitors for 2002-2003; Mr. Lovelace's term is to begin at the conclusion of the April, 2002 meeting of the Board and will end at the conclusion of the April 2003 Board meeting.

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY, DECEMBER 13, 2001:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 10:30 a.m.

AGG:jb