Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 4, 2003

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2009

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS OCTOBER 3-4, 2003
--------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Approval of the Minutes of the May 30-31 and July 11-12 Meetings

6501

ACC Certification

6501

Assignment of Lower Apartment in Pavilion VIII

6502

Establishment of the Alvin V. and Nancy Baird Professorship in Historical Collections

6506

Establishment of the Cory Professorship in Political Philosophy, Policy and Law

6506

Establishment of the Cosmo A. DiFazio Professorship in Anesthesiology

6507

Establishment of the Ivy Foundation Distinguished Professorships in Pediatrics

6507

The Distinguished Professorship in the History ofLandscape Architecture

6508

Establishment of the Harry W. Porter, Jr., VisitingProfessorship in the School of Architecture

6508

Establishment of the William Stone Weedon Professorshipin Asian Architecture

6509

Naming of the Studio Art Building, Ruffin Hall

6510

Naming of Shea House

6510

Architect Selection, Drama Building Additionand Renovation at the College at Wise

6511

Approval of a Permanent Easement for Virginia Electric and Power Company for a Power Line on University Property at the Millmont Street Transportation Building

6512

PAGE

Approval of a Permanent Easements for Virginia Electric and Power Company, Sprint, Adelphia, and NTelos for Utility Lines on University Property on the West Side of Emmet Street at the Emmet Street Bridge

6512

Approval of Permanent Easements for Virginia Electric and Power Company and NTelos for Utility Lines on University Property at the Ivy Road Entrance to the Emmet Street Parking Garage

6512

Approval of Permanent Easements for the University of Virginia at the Ivy Road —; Rothery Road Intersection on Properties Adjacent to the Intersection

6513

Conflict of Interest Exemption (Medical Predictive Science Corporation)

6513

Conflict of Interest Exemption (JKM Technologies, LLC)

6514

Approval of the Board of Visitors Representatives to the Governing Boards of University-Related Foundations

6515

Approval of the Programming Agreement with WVTF and and Authorization for the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to Transfer Assets and License for Wise-FM to WVTF-FM

6517

Approval of WTJU'S 2002—;2003 Annual Report

6517

Delegation of Approval Authority to the President with Regard to Employee Personal Interests in Contracts for Research and Development or Commercialization of Intellectual Property

6518

Approval of the Creation of the University of Virginia School of Architecture Foundation

6519

Approval of the 2004—;2006 Biennial Budget Request for the Academic Division, the Medical Center and The University of Virginia's College at Wise

6519

Approval of Expansion of the University of Virginia Policy Statement Governing Exercise of Autonomy in Leases of Property to Include Income Operating Leases and Capital Leases

6520

PAGE

Approval of the Appointment of a Public Member to the Board of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company

6521

Approval of Investment in the University's Research Enterprise

6521

Approval of Compensation Adjustments and Intent to Achieve Competitive Compensation for Faculty and Staff

6523

Memorial Resolution for Frederick G. Pollard

6524

Approval of the Summary of Audit and Compliance Findings

6525

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

6526

Change in the Election of Ms. Mercedes Q. Procaccini

6531

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Election of Chairholders

6531

Change in the Title of the Chairholder Election of Dr. Cato T. Laurencin

6532

Change in the Title of a Chairholder

6532

Special Salary Actions of Chairholders

6533

Retirement of Chairholder

6534

Resignation of Chairholders

6534

Death of Chairholder

6534

Promotions

6535

Change in the Promotion of Mr. Kamalini Ramdas to Ms. Kamalini Ramdas

6535

Cancellation of the Promotion of Dr. William W. Hammill

6535

Special Salary Actions

6536

Resignations

6548

Retirements

6551

Change in the Title of the Retirement of Dr. Frederic (Fritz) A. Berry

6552

Change in the Date of the Retirement of Mr. Richard R. Abidin

6552

Appointments

6552

Re-Appointment

6553

Election of Dr. R. Ariel Gomez as Vice President for Research and Graduate Studies

6553

Election of Professors Emeriti

6553

Change in the Emeritus Title for Dr. Frederic (Fritz) A. Berry

6554

PAGE

Change in the Emeritus Date for Mr. Richard R. Abidin

6554

Election of Associate Professor Emeritus

6555

Deaths

6555

The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Election

6556

Promotions

6556

Special Salary Actions

6557

Resignations

6557

Appointment

6558

Retirement

6558

Mission Statement, Special Committee on Diversity

6558

Committee Actions —; August 1 —;' September 11, 2003 :

Actions of the UVIMCO Board, September 4, 2003

6559

Credential and Recredentialing Actions, August 1, and September 11, 2003

6560

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS October 4-5, 2003
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 10:05 a.m., Friday, October 3, 2003 , in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector, presided. Thomas J. Bliley, Jr., William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, Thomas F. Farrell, II, Charles L. Glazer, William H. Goodwin, Jr., Mark J. Kington, Lewis F. Payne, Don R. Pippin, Thomas A. Saunders, III, Warren M. Thompson, E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., Ms. Georgia M. Willis, John O. Wynne, and John R.M. Rodney were present.

Present as well were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, Robert D. Sweeney, Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D., Ms. Colette Sheehy, Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Ms. Yoke San L. Reynolds, R. Ariel Gomez, M.D., and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Rector asked Mr. Glazer to lead the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance, following which he asked for a motion to approve the Minutes of the Board of Visitors meetings of May 30-31 and July 11-12 (the Board Retreat). The motion was offered, seconded and approved.

ACC CERTIFICATION
-----------------

The Rector then reminded the Board that he is required once a year to certify to the Atlantic Coast Conference that 1) responsibility for the administration of the athletics program has been delegated to the Chief Executive Officer of the University; 2) the Chief Executive Officer has the mandate and support of the Board to operate a program of integrity in full compliance with NCAA, ACC and all other relevant rules and regulations; and 3) the Chief Executive Officer, in consultation with the Faculty Representative and the Director of Athletics, determines how the institutional vote shall be cast on issues of athletic policy presently to the NCAA and the ACC. As part of this certification, the Rector is required to read these terms to the Board.

ASSIGNMENT OF THE LOWER APARTMENT IN PAVILION VIII
--------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee, in a telephone poll conducted on August 27 and 28, voted to assign the Lower Apartment in Pavilion VIII to Ms. Gladys Saunders , Associate Professor of French. Ms. Saunders' lease is for five years (see the Minutes of the Executive Committee polling, August 27-28).

SUMMER ORIENTATION
------------------

The Rector thanked Members who had participated in the Summer Orientation sessions in July and August: Mesdames Dorsey and Willis, and Messrs. Crutchfield, Farrell, Glazer, Kington, Payne and Saunders (the Rector also participated). He thanked Ms. Tabitha Enoch, Director of Orientation, for her excellent organization of Orientation as well as the Opening Convocation for entering students, which was held on the Lawn August 24th.

The Rector commended Mr. Thompson for his excellent speech to parents and students at the Office of African American Affairs Welcoming Reception and Program in Newcomb Hall on August 23rd.

PRESIDENT'S REPORT
------------------

The President gave his customary report.

Hurricane Isabel struck Charlottesville September 18- 19. Classes were suspended at 1:00 p.m., on the 18th and all day on the 19th. Although there were power outages on some parts of the Grounds and over 200 trees were lost, damage to the University was minimal. The Hospital functioned without interruption and basic services were maintained. The President thanked Ms. Lampkin and Messrs. Sandridge and Howell and their staffs, and Facilities Management for the work they did.

The entering undergraduate class, at 3,070 students, is the largest such class in the history of the University. Two thirds of them are Virginia residents, 54.2% are women, 5.3% are international students, 8.8% African-American, 10.1% Asian-American, and 2.7% Hispanic-American. The average SAT scores are 653 Verbal and 670 Math; 85.1% ranked in the top tenth of their high school class.

The President reminded the Board of the U.S. News and World Report rankings, released in late August, which placed the University in tie with the University of California at Berkeley as the best public university in the country.

The President listed several new appointments and hirings since the last meeting of the Board: Dr. Ariel Gomez has been made Vice President for Research, after having been Interim Vice President; Mr. Ted Genoways assumed his duties as Editor of the Virginia Quarterly Review on July 1st; Mr. Brian O'Connor has been made Baseball Coach and Mr. William Pease Director of the forming Concert/Marching Band. In addition, Mr. Block has appointed three new Vice Provosts: Mr. Milton Adams as Vice Provost for Academic Programs; Ms. Gertrude Fraser , Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement; and Dr. Leigh Grossman as Vice Provost for International Affairs. Ms. Fraser and Dr. Grossman will assume their duties in January.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

The President then made his customary Gifts and Grants Report.

Private giving to the University and its related foundations was $261.9million for the fiscal year that ended June 30th; this is an increase of $6.9million over the previous fiscal year and is a new record for philanthropic support at the University. The figure for the first two months of the current fiscal year, which is to say through August 31st, is $20.9million, an increase of 92.4% over the comparable period last year.

Some significant gifts received since the May Board meeting include an anonymous $5million pledge payment toward the McIntire Building Campaign Fund; a $4million gift in kind of a 20% undivided interest in a First Edition of the First Printing of the Declaration of Independence; $3million from the Estate of Paul Mellon for the Paul Mellon Prostate Cancer Institute Fund in the School of Medicine; $2.5million in pledge payments for the University of Virginia Concert and Marching Band, the Performing Arts Center and the football stadium at The University of Virginia's College at Wise; an $8.5million pledge for the South Lawn Project from Mr. John L. Nau, III and Mrs. Barbara B. Nau; a $5million pledge from CCA Industries, Inc. for the basketball arena and a gift of $1.2million from Victor and Sonia Elmaleh toward the additions to Campbell Hall at the School of Architecture.

On motion, the Board accepted the Gifts and Grants Report.

The Board recessed, as the full Board, at 10:45 a.m., to hear reports from the Committees —;' the Minutes of these reports are published as Committee Minutes.

The Board went to lunch at Clark Hall at noon for the dedication of the Science Library.

The Board resumed meeting as the full Board at 1:50 p.m., in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; all Members present at the morning session were there, save Mr. Farrell.

After approving the following motions to go into Executive Session, the Board went into Executive Session at 1:55 p.m.:

That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss and seek the advice of our General Counsel with respect to the Auditor's evaluation of specific University departments, which will also involve discussion of the performance of University managers and personnel; and, in the case of the Medical Center, will involve consideration of personnel performance and regulatory compliance involving the Medical Center's proprietary business-related information at the Medical Center where disclosure at this time would adversely affect the competitive position of the Medical Center. This action is provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1), (7) and (23) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific employees of the University of Virginia; as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to confer with General Counsel and be advised on pending and anticipated litigation risk affecting the University, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss both the acquisition and disposition of real estate for the University, as well as to consult with Legal Counsel in such matters as may be appropriate, where disclosure at this time would adversely affect the University's bargaining position and negotiation strategy, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(3), (6), and (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss fund-raising and specific gifts and pledges for the arena and University operations; to discuss endowment investment options and strategies, and to confer with Legal Counsel on the University's legal authority in such matters including the marketing and licensing terms for arena suites, where disclosure at this time would adversely affect the University's financial interests; as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(6), (7), (8), and (30) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board resumed in Open Session at 4:00 and adopted a resolution attesting to the legality of its Executive Session discussions.

Mr. Rector, I move that we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

The Board recessed at 4:00 and resumed its meeting, in Open Session, at 4:10 in the Dome Room of the Rotunda. Present were all Members in attendance earlier in the afternoon.

The Board adopted the following resolutions:

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ALVIN V. AND NANCY BAIRD PROFESSORSHIP IN HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Alvin V. Baird and his wife Nancy Chappelear Baird of Harrisonburg have had a strong awareness of the importance of historical archives; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Baird attended the University and Mrs. Baird took a degree from what is now James Madison University; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Baird died in 2002; and

WHEREAS, Mr. and Mrs. Baird in 1999 pledged a gift to the Claude Moore Health Sciences Library to be used to create an endowed position of curator for historical collections, a position that few medical libraries have;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors thanks Mr. Baird for his and the late Mrs. Baird's generosity and vision, and creates the Alvin V. and Nancy Baird Professorship in Historical Collections, to be held in the Claude Moore Health Sciences Library.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CORY PROFESSORSHIP IN POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY, POLICY AND LAW
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Charles R. Cory took a B.A. from the College in 1977 and a joint M.B.A./J.D. from the Darden School and the School of Law in 1982; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Cory, since his student days, has been interested in the relationships between political philosophy and legal theory, and law and public policy; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Cory has made a gift to establish a professorship in which the holder of the chair would direct undergraduates in the studies of these relationships;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Cory Professorship in Political Philosophy, Policy, and Law, to be held in the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and expresses its appreciation to Charles R. Cory for his vision and support.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COSMO A. DIFAZIO PROFESSORSHIP IN ANESTHESIOLOGY
---------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Dr. Cosmo DiFazio has been a member of the faculty of the Department of Anesthesiology of the School of Medicine for 35 years; and

WHEREAS, Dr. DiFazio has been an inspired teacher, a dedicated and caring physician, and a respected scholar; and

WHEREAS, Dr. DiFazio is retiring from the faculty; and

WHEREAS, a group of Dr. DiFazio's former residents, as a measure of the respect they hold for their mentor, have led the successful effort to raise funds for a Chair in Dr. DiFazio's honor;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors creates the Cosmo A. DiFazio Professorship in Anesthesiology, to be held in the Department of Anesthesiology of the School of Medicine, thanks the donors whose generosity made this possible, and expresses its gratitude to Dr. DiFazio for his years of devoted service to his profession, his patients and his students, and to the University of Virginia.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE IVY FOUNDATION DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIPS IN PEDIATRICS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Ivy Foundation of Charlottesville has been a generous supporter of biomedical research at the University; and

WHEREAS, the Foundation has provided funds for the creation of two professorships, the holders of which are to be engaged in research focused on morphogenesis and regenerative medicine; and

WHEREAS, the two Ivy Foundation professors are to be members of the Morphogenesis and Regenerative Medicine Institute;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes two professorships, each to be known as The Ivy Foundation Distinguished Professorship in Pediatrics and both to be held in the Department of Pediatrics in the School of Medicine; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Board expresses its appreciation to the Ivy Foundation for this generous gift, acknowledges the Foundation's wish that the Ivy Foundation Professors be engaged in research focused on morphogenesis and regenerative medicine, and recognizes that the Foundation may wish, at some point, to request that one or both of the Professorships be renamed.

THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN THE HISTORY OF LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, an anonymous donor has provided funds to establish a professorship in the history of landscape architecture in the School of Architecture;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes The Distinguished Professorship in the History of Landscape Architecture, to be held in the Department of Architecture and Landscape Architecture in the School of Architecture; in doing so, the Board thanks the anonymous donor and the Saunders family whose generous gifts have made this possible; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Board recognizes that the anonymous donor may wish to rename the Professorship in the near future.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HARRY W. PORTER, JR., VISITING PROFESSORSHIP IN THE SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Harry W. Porter, Jr., joined the faculty of the School of Architecture in 1969 and established the Landscape Architecture degree program in the School; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Porter served as the eighth Dean of the School of Architecture and the first Architect for the University; and

WHEREAS, an anonymous donor and many of Mr. Porter's friends and former students have contributed to a professorship in his honor;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Harry W. Porter, Jr. Visiting Professorship in the School of Architecture, to be held in the School of Architecture; the professorship shall rotate among the disciplines of Architecture, Landscape Architecture, Architectural History, and Urban and Environmental Planning. The Board thanks the friends and former students of Mr. Porter whose generosity has made the Porter Professorship possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WILLIAM STONE WEEDON PROFESSORSHIP IN ASIAN ARCHITECTURE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, William S. Weedon, a native of Wilmington, Delaware and the holder of three degrees from the University, joined the Faculty as an Assistant in Mathematics in 1929; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Weedon, as a graduate student, became an Instructor in the Philosophy Department in 1934, rising through the ranks to become Chairman of the Department in 1955 after service in the United States Navy during the Second World War; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Weedon was made our first University Professor and subsequently taught courses in Asian art, architecture and culture, his classes on Asian Architecture at the School of Architecture being particularly popular; and

WHEREAS, the Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation, matched with funds from the Saunders family, has made a gift for a professorship in Asian Architecture;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors creates the William Stone Weedon Professorship in Asian Architecture, to be held in the School of Architecture, and expresses its thanks to the Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation and the Saunders family for their generosity.

NAMING OF THE STUDIO ART BUILDING, RUFFIN HALL
----------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Mr. and Mrs. Peter Ruffin were generous supporters of the University during their lifetimes; and

WHEREAS, Mr. and Mrs. Ruffin established the Peter B. and Adeline W. Ruffin Foundation, which has continued this generosity; and

WHEREAS, the Ruffin Foundation has made a significant gift toward the construction of the Studio Art Building, a gift which covers the entire cost of the project to be raised from private sources;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors names the Studio Art Building Ruffin Hall, and thanks the Ruffin Foundation for its continuing support of the University.

NAMING OF SHEA HOUSE
--------------------

WHEREAS, A. Vincent Shea , a native of Richmond, took a B.A. from the University in 1934 and an M.A. in 1935; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Shea joined the faculty of the University in 1936 as a member of the Bureau of Public Administration; and

WHEREAS, after distinguished service in the United States Navy during the Second World War, Mr. Shea returned to the University and served, variously, as Bursar, Comptroller, Assistant to President Darden, Secretary to the Board of Visitors, Vice President for Business and Finance, Chair of the Department of Government and Foreign Affairs, and Secretary of the Alumni Board of Trustees; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Shea retired from the faculty in 1982 and died on May 18, 2002 ;

RESOLVED, that the Monroe Lane Language House, the student dormitory at the corner of Jefferson Park Avenue and Monroe Lane, be named Shea House in honor of A. Vincent Shea.

The Board recessed at 4:30 p.m., for a reception honoring donors and persons for whom professorships and buildings were named.

The Board resumed meeting, in Open Session, as the full Board at 8:45 a.m., on Saturday, October 4, 2003, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda. All Members present at the opening session the previous day were once more present.

The Board had a policy discussion on compensation and research initiatives; the discussion is recounted in the separate Minutes of that part of the Board meeting.

The session ended at 10:15 and the Board went immediately into the final portion of its meeting.

REPORT FROM THE PRESIDENT
-------------------------

The President reported briefly on the dedication and opening in September of the new University of Virginia Center at Valencia in eastern Spain, which he and Mrs. Casteen attended. The Spanish Department for some years has had a summer program in Valencia, a program which in recent years has expanded to formal offerings during the regular academic year. The new Center represents an established presence of the University in Valencia.

The Board then took up its regular Agenda and adopted the following resolutions:

ARCHITECT SELECTION, DRAMA BUILDING ADDITION AND RENOVATION AT THE COLLEGE AT WISE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Bushman Dreyfus Architects of Charlottesville, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Drama Building Addition and Renovation project at The University of Virginia's College at Wise.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR VIRGINIA ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY FOR A POWER LINE ON UNIVERSITY PROPERTY AT THE MILLMONT STREET TRANSPORTATION BUILDING
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement to Virginia Electric and Power Company for a power line at the Millmont Street Transportation Building on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement. \[Mr. Farrell abstained from voting.\]

APPROVAL OF PERMANENT EASEMENTS FOR VIRGINIA ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY, SPRINT, ADELPHIA, AND NTELOS FOR UTILITY LINES ON UNIVERSITY PROPERTY ON THE WEST SIDE OF EMMET STREET AT THE EMMET STREET BRIDGE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of permanent easements to Virginia Electric and Power Company, Sprint, Adelphia, and NTelos for utility lines on the west side of Emmet Street at the Emmet Street Bridge on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easements. \[Mr. Farrell abstained from voting.\]

APPROVAL OF PERMANENT EASEMENTS FOR VIRGINIA ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY AND NTELOS FOR UTILITY LINES ON UNIVERSITY PROPERTY AT THE IVY ROAD ENTRANCE TO THE EMMET STREET PARKING GARAGE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of permanent easements to Virginia Electric and Power Company and NTelos for utility lines on the north side of Ivy Road at the Emmet Street Parking Garage on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easements. \[Mr. Farrell abstained from voting.\]

APPROVAL OF PERMANENT EASEMENTS FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AT THE IVY ROAD —;' ROTHERY ROAD INTERSECTION ON PROPERTIES ADJACENT TO THE INTERSECTION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the requests to the owners of the properties adjacent to the Ivy Road —;' Rothery Road intersection for easements for improvements to the intersection are authorized; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to request said easements.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION (MEDICAL PREDICTIVE SCIENCE CORPORATION)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia wishes to enter into sponsored research contracts with Medical Predictive Science Corporation (MPSC), for developing systems for heart rate variability measurement and analysis; and

WHEREAS, Pamela M. Griffin, M.D., and Randall J. Moorman, M.D., have disclosed in advance their equity interests of eight percent each, in the Medical Predictive Science Corporation; and

WHEREAS, the University's entry into research agreements with Medical Predictive Science Corporation would thereby expose Drs. Griffin and Moorman to violation of the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act unless approved by the Board as permitted by §2.2-3106(C)(7) of the Code of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the conflict of interest of Pamela M. Griffin, M.D., and Randall J. Moorman, M.D., is approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to enter into agreements with Medical Predictive Science Corporation, for research funding for the development of systems for heart rate variability measurement and monitoring; provided, as required by the law, Drs. Griffin and Moorman file the required annual disclosure statement of personal interests in Medical Predictive Science Corporation, the University files the required annual report concerning the contracts with the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and the relevant department chair vigilantly oversees application of University resources in the best interests of the University and in accordance with policy.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION (JKM Technologies, LLC)
------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia wishes to enter into sponsored research contracts with JKM Technologies, LLC, to test the biomechanical and physiological effects of several shoe prototypes; and

WHEREAS, D. Casey Kerrigan, M.D., has disclosed in advance her equity interests of 100 percent, in JKM Technologies, LLC; and

WHEREAS, the University's entry into research agreements with JKM Technologies, LLC, would expose Dr. Kerrigan to violation of the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act unless approved by the Board as permitted by §2.2- 3106(C)(7) of the Code of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the conflict of interest of D. Casey Kerrigan, M.D., is approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to enter into agreements with JKM Technologies, LLC, for research funding for the testing of the biomechanical and physiological effects of several shoe prototypes; provided, as required by the law, Dr. Kerrigan files the required annual disclosure statement of personal interests in JKM Technologies, LLC, the University files the required annual report concerning the contracts with the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and the relevant department chair vigilantly oversees application of University resources in the best interests of the University and in accordance with policy.

APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS REPRESENTATIVES TO THE GOVERNING BOARDS OF UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Foundation

Board of Visitors Representative

Term Ending

Alumni Association of theUniversity of Virginia

John O. Wynne

06/30/07\*

Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund

Robert V. Hatcher, Jr.

12/31/04

The College Foundation of the University of Virginia

Timothy B. Robertson

12/31/04

The University of Virginia'sCollege at Wise Alumni Association and Foundation

Don R. Pippin

06/30/07\*

Curry School of Education

Thomas A. Saunders, III

06/30/06

Darden School Foundation

Lemuel E. Lewis

12/31/04

Foundation of the State Arboretumat Blandy Experimental Farm

Rebecca D. Kneedler

12/31/04

Healthcare Partners, Inc.

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

06/30/06

University of VirginiaHealth Services Foundation

Harry J.G. van Beek

12/31/04

Historic Renovation Corporation

David W. Carr

12/31/04

Law School Alumni Associationand Foundation, University of Virginia

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

12/31/04

McIntire School of CommerceFoundation

Georgia M. Willis

06/30/07\*

\* Denotes ratification required by the Board of Visitors

Foundation

Board of Visitors Representative

Term Endinig

Medical School Alumni Association and Foundation, University of Virginia

Charles M. Caravati, Jr., M.D

12/31/04

Miller Center Foundation

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

06/30/07\*

Patent Foundation, University of Virginia

Terence P. Ross

06/30/07\*

University of Virginia Foundationand University Real Estate Foundation

John P. Ackerly, III

06/30/04

University of Virginia Host Properties, Inc. (subsidiary of the UVA Foundation)

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

12/31/04

University of Virginia Health Foundation

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

06/30/07\*

Virginia Ambulatory Surgery,Inc.

John B. Hanks, M.D.

06/30/07\*

Virginia EngineeringFoundation

James E. Ryan, Jr.

12/31/04

Virginia Urologic Foundation

William D. Steers, M.D.

12/31/04

Virginia Athletic Foundation

Craig K. Littlepage

12/31/05

Virginia Tax Foundation, Inc.

Joseph E. Gibson

12/31/04

\* Denotes ratification required by the Board of Visitors

RESOLVED that the following persons be ratified or confirmed as representatives of the Board of Visitors to the governing boards of the following University-Related Foundations:

APPROVAL OF THE PROGRAMMING AGREEMENT WITH WVTF AND AUTHORIZATION FOR THE EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER TO TRANSFER ASSETS AND LICENSE FOR WISE-FM TO WVTF-FM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, WISE-FM does not have sufficient sources of funding to continue as a radio station owned and operated by The University's College at Wise; and

WHEREAS, the majority of WISE-FM's current programming is public radio programming also broadcast by WVTF-FM, the public radio affiliate operated by Virginia Tech; and

WHEREAS, WVTF-FM has agreed to assume programming for WISE-FM on a short term basis, providing the area residents with uninterrupted public radio programming; and

WHEREAS, The University of Virginia's College at Wise would like to transfer the WISE-FM license and other pertinent assets to WVTF-FM, not to include office equipment and other assets that may be used by the College at Wise.

RESOLVED that the programming agreement with WVTF-FM is hereby ratified; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to take the necessary steps to transfer the license and other pertinent assets of WISE-FM to WVTF-FM, in accordance with applicable law.

APPROVAL OF WTJU'S 2002-03 ANNUAL REPORT
----------------------------------------

RESOLVED that WTJU's 2002-03 Annual Report be approved, as recommended by the President and the Vice President for Student Affairs.

DELEGATION OF APPROVAL AUTHORITY TO THE PRESIDENT WITH REGARD TO EMPLOYEE PERSONAL INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS FOR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OR COMMERCIALIZATION OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Virginia Code § 2.2-3106 was recently amended to allow delegation to the President of the authority to approve a waiver of the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act (the "Act") related to a contract for research and development or commercialization of intellectual property between the University and a business in which a University employee has a personal interest; and

WHEREAS, Virginia Code § 2.2-3106(E) requires that any such delegation be made a part of the University's policy, mandated by Virginia Code § 2.2-3106(C)(7)(iii), governing the waiver of such conflicts; and

WHEREAS, the Board wishes to delegate such authority to the President;

RESOLVED that the President of the University pursuant to Virginia Code § 2.2-3106(E), is delegated the authority to approve waivers of the Act as it applies to contracts for research and development or commercialization of intellectual property between the University and a business in which a University employee(s) has a personal interest. In evaluating requests for waivers and exercising the authority granted hereunder, the President shall comply with the Act and the University's policy on Conflict of Interests (the "Policy"). This delegation shall be effective until revoked by the Board. The University Comptroller shall revise the Policy as necessary to incorporate (i) this delegation of authority to the President and (ii) the requirements imposed by Virginia Code § 2.2-3106(E) in the event of such delegation.

APPROVAL OF THE CREATION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE FOUNDATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, The University Policy on University-Related Foundations requires that the creation of new University- Related Foundations be approved by the Board of Visitors; and

WHEREAS, the Senior Vice President for Development and Public Affairs recommends that the Board of Visitors approve the creation of a University-Related Foundation for the School of Architecture; and

WHEREAS, this new Foundation will adhere to the University's Policy on University-Related Foundations;

RESOLVED that the creation of a University-Related Foundation for the School of Architecture is approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 2004-2006 BIENNIAL BUDGET REQUEST FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION, THE MEDICAL CENTER AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the expected 2004-2006 biennial budget request has been carefully reviewed; and

WHEREAS, the expected biennial budget request represents the highest priority initiatives and is aligned with the mission of the institution;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia endorses and supports the preliminary 2004-2006 biennial budget; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to transmit the final biennial budget request to the Governor as long as there are no material differences from the items already endorsed by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors understands that to the extent these initiatives are not included in the Governor's 2004-2006 biennial budget, the Academic Division, the Medical Center and The University of Virginia's College at Wise may want to pursue similar requests to the legislature; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to transmit to the General Assembly any request not funded by the Governor as long as there are no material differences from the items already endorsed by the Board of Visitors.

APPROVAL OF EXPANSION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING EXERCISE OF AUTONOMY IN LEASES OF PROPERTY TO INCLUDE INCOME OPERATING LEASES AND CAPITAL LEASES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the General Assembly of Virginia, at the 1996 Session, enacted legislation providing for a permanent delegation of autonomy to the University to be exercised on behalf of the Medical Center in relation to leases of property; and

WHEREAS, the enabling legislation further delegated autonomy to the University to be exercised through a two-year pilot program for expense leases of property, other than leases entered into on behalf of the Medical Center; and

WHEREAS, the pilot program has been continued by subsequent legislative actions; and

WHEREAS, the General Assembly of Virginia, at the 2003 Session, enacted legislation 1) expanding the 1996 pilot program for the delegation of autonomy for operating leases to the University to include income operating leases and 2) creating a pilot program for capital leases; and

WHEREAS, the legislation as enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia in 1996 required that the authority delegated to the University not be exercised until the Board of Visitors adopted an appropriate system of policies, procedures, reviews, approvals and guidelines pursuant to which University officials would be guided in their exercise of the delegated autonomy; and

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors on June 14, 1996, approved a "Policy Statement Governing Exercise of Autonomy in Leases of Property," for the permanent delegation to the Medical Center and for the pilot program for the balance of the University; and

WHEREAS, the system of policies, procedures and guidelines included in the "Policy Statement" has provided for the efficient and businesslike administration of property leases; and

WHEREAS, the 1996 policy statement has been revised to include income operating leases and capital leases, and is now titled "Policy Statement Governing Exercise of Autonomy in Operating and Capital Leases of Property;"

RESOLVED that the "Policy Statement Governing Exercise of Autonomy in Operating and Capital Leases of Property," attached hereto, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the President be delegated the authority (1) to implement the Policy Statement in the manner he deems most appropriate; and (2) to delegate further to his designee the administrative responsibility to implement and assure compliance with the Policy Statement.

APPROVAL OF THE APPOINTMENT OF A PUBLIC MEMBER TO THE BOARD OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Peter F. Dolan, of Medfield, Massachusetts, is hereby appointed to serve as a public member of the Board of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company for a term of four years, beginning July 1, 2003.

APPROVAL OF INVESTMENT IN THE UNIVERSITY'S RESEARCH ENTERPRISE
--------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed the status of the research program within the University with the intention that the University build its research enterprise in support of its goals and the Governor's goals for teaching, knowledge creation, technology transfer, and economic development; and

WHEREAS, the University's research program requires an investment in facilities and faculty to achieve and maintain the national standing it seeks; and

WHEREAS, the Educational Policy Committee has asked the President and the Executive Vice President to propose a plan to proceed promptly with the construction of Medical Research Building #6; and

WHEREAS, the Educational Policy Committee also has requested a detailed five-year plan for research based on preliminary information provided by the Vice President and Provost in August 2003, calling for a total investment of $128.5 million and a Board of Visitors commitment of $60 million over the period 2004-2009;

RESOLVED that $20 million be allocated to complete the funding required for Medical Research Building #6 from institutional indirect cost recoveries and investment earnings, subject to funding of the remainder from School of Medicine sources and General Obligation Bond proceeds; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that it is the intent of the Board to invest an additional $40 million from institutional funds in the research enterprise over the five-year period 2004- 2009 to fund, along with other monies provided by the schools and Vice President for Research, ten "National Academy caliber" faculty teams and an Advanced Research and Technology Facility, subject to the submission of an acceptable five-year plan for research not later than April 2004; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that such investment will be made as part of the annual budget approval process over the fiveyear period 2004-2009 subject to confirmation that funding is available, that appropriate measures and milestones are in place, and that progress is being made consistent with the plan to be presented for the research program.

In adopting the next resolution, the Board expressed its intent as follows: It is the intent of the Board of Visitors that additional funding equivalent to 1 3/4% of the salary budget base be provided to The University of Virginia's College at Wise in 2003-04. Resources comparable to those envisioned for the University of Virginia's classified employees also will be provided to The University of Virginia's College at Wise.

APPROVAL OF COMPENSATION ADJUSTMENTS AND INTENT TO ACHIEVE COMPETITIVE COMPENSATION FOR FACULTY AND STAFF
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed the compensation provided to faculty and staff of the University; and

WHEREAS, the Board intends to pay people what they are worth in the marketplace based on individual qualities and measured by appropriate indices that are tested regularly and disclosed publicly; and

WHEREAS, the University's faculty and staff compensation has fallen over the last decade in all major surveys including those used by the Commonwealth to determine the desired funding of faculty salaries; and

WHEREAS, it is the expectation of the Board of Visitors that the state meet its obligation to restore faculty and staff salaries in the institutions of higher education in Virginia as quickly as possible; and

WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board to restore faculty compensation at the University by the end of Fiscal Year 2007 to nationally competitive levels compared with peer institutions as measured by appropriate compensation surveys and institutional priorities;

RESOLVED that funding be provided from institutional resources to supplement state faculty salary increases effective November 25, 2003, by an average of 1.75 percent to be allocated on the basis of merit; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that two compensation funds be established effective November 25, 2003 , for classified staff consisting of a) $250,000 plus benefits to provide strategic base salary adjustments through the Classified Compensation Plan's In-Band Adjustment program and b) $200,000 plus benefits for one-time bonuses and awards payable to outstanding performers under the State Rewards and Recognition Plan; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the President and Executive Vice President propose a policy on compensation to the Board not later than April, 2004, that achieves the Board's intent to restore faculty compensation to nationally competitive levels by the end of fiscal year 2007 and preserve market driven/performance based compensation for classified staff subject to annual budget review processes, specific performance measures, milestones, and funding strategies to ensure accomplishment of the compensation objectives.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR FREDERICK G. POLLARD
--------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Frederick Gresham Pollard was born in Richmond in 1918 and took a B.A. from the University in 1940 and a law degree in 1942; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Pollard returned to Richmond after service in the United States Navy during World War II and began the practice of law; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Pollard was elected to the House of Delegates in 1950 and served until 1965 when he was elected Lieutenant Governor of the Commonwealth, in which capacity he served until 1970; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Pollard during his years in the General Assembly and as Lieutenant Governor, became known as an expert on the State Budget process; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Pollard served on numerous public and corporate boards; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Pollard was appointed to the Board of Visitors by Governor Dalton in 1980 and reappointed by Governor Robb in 1984; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Pollard served with great distinction on the Board and was elected Rector by his colleagues in 1982; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Pollard died on July 7th, 2003 ;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors notes with profound sorrow the death of Frederick Gresham Pollard, recalls his devoted service to the Board, his many contributions to the life of the University of Virginia and his love of this institution, and expresses its condolences to Mrs. Pollard and their family.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE FINDINGS
----------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period May 1, 2003 , through August 31, 2003, as presented by the Director of Audits and the Compliance Schedule Accomplishments for Fiscal Year 2002-03 as presented by the Corporate Compliance Officer, is approved as recommended by the Audit & Compliance Committee.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONS ELECTIONSCHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MS. MERCEDES Q. PROCACCINIACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Election of Chairholders(b) Change in the title of the chairholder election of Dr. Cato T. Laurencin(c) Change of Title of Chairholder (d) Special Salary Actions of Chairholders (e) Retirement of Chairholder(f) Resignation of Chairholders(g) Death of ChairholderPROMOTIONSCHANGE IN THE PROMOTION OF MR. KAMALINI RAMDAS TO MS. KAMALINI RAMDAS CANCELLATION OF THE PROMOTION OF DR. WILLIAM W. HAMMILLSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTSCHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE RETIREMENT OF DR. FREDERIC (FRITZ) A. BERRYCHANGE IN THE DATE OF THE RETIREMENT OF MR. RICHARD R. ABIDINAPPOINTMENTSRE-APPOINTMENTELECTION OF DR. R. ARIEL GOMEZ AS VICE PRESIDENT FOR RESEARCH AND GRADUATE STUDIESELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITICHANGE IN THE EMERITUS TITLE FOR DR. FREDERIC (FRITZ) A. BERRYCHANGE IN THE EMERITUS DATE FOR MR. RICHARD R. ABIDINELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUSDEATHS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Mercedes Q. Procaccini as Assistant Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective June 25, 2003, at an annual salary of $39,100, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated May 30-31, 2003, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the title of the chairholder election of Dr. Cato T. Laurencin as Lillian T. Pratt Distinguished Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, University Professor, and Professor of Biomedical Engineering, effective January 25, 2003, at an annual salary of $450,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated May 30-31, 2003, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted:

RESOLVED that the promotion of Mr. Kamilini Ramdas from Assistant Professor of Business Administration to Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective August 25, 2003, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors, dated May 30-31, 2003, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the promotion of Dr. William W. Hammill from Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 2003, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors, dated May 30-31, 2003, be cancelled. Dr. Hammill resigned on June 30, 2003.

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirements were announced:

The President announced that the title of the retirement of Dr. Frederic (Fritz) A. Berry, Professor of Anesthesiology, effective November 24, 2002, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated April 4-5, 2003, be changed to read as follows:

The President announced that the date of the retirement of Mr. Richard A. Abidin, Professor of Education, effective May 24, 2003, as shown in the retirement section of the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated April 4-5, 2003, be changed to read as follows:

The President announced the following appointments:

The following re-appointment was announced:

RESOLVED that Dr. R. Ariel Gomez is elected Vice President for Research and Graduate Studies, for five years, effective June 25, 2003; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that Dr. Gomez shall receive an annual salary of $265,000, effective August 1, 2003.

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

The President announced that the Emeritus title for Dr. Frederic (Fritz) A. Berry, Professor of Anesthesiology, effective November 24, 2002, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated April 4-5, 2003, be changed to read as follows:

The President announced that the Emeritus date for Mr. Richard R. Abidin, Professor of Education, effective May 24, 2003, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors, dated April 4-5, 2003, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Associate Professor Emeritus:

The President announced the following deaths:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISEELECTIONPROMOTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSAPPOINTMENTRETIREMENT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

The following resignations were announced:

The following appointment was announced:

The following retirement was announced:

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 10:30 a.m.

The following actions were taken by Board Committees since the July 11-12 meeting of the full Board. They do not require action by the full Board and are listed here simply as a matter of record:

MISSION STATEMENT, SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON DIVERSITY
-------------------------------------------------

At the Retreat in July, the Board approved the Mission Statement of the Special Committee on Diversity (see the Minutes of the Retreat, July 11-12, 2003), with the understanding that several minor changes would be made to it. The changes were made and approved by the Committee at its meeting on October 2nd. The Mission Statement is as follows:

The mission of the Special Committee on Diversity of the Board of Visitors is the encouragement and support of an atmosphere at the University that ensures that diverse members of the University of Virginia and Charlottesville community are treated equally and fairly. The accomplishment of this mission is essential to creating an educational experience for our students to prepare them for productive and responsible citizenship in the world beyond this community.

The Special Committee defines diversity to include race and ethnicity, age, gender, disability status, sexual orientation, religious and national origin, socio-economic status, and other aspects of individual experience and identity.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, TELEPHONE POLL ON AUGUST 27-28
---------------------------------------------------

The Committee assigned the Lower Apartment in Pavilion VIII to Ms. Gladys Saunders, Associate Professor of French, for a period of five years. Ms. Saunders' lease will commence when the necessary refurbishments have been completed. Her lease may not be renewed.

THE BOARD OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY ON SEPTEMBER 4, 2003
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD ON AUGUST 1, 2003CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS1. NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF2. LOCUM TENENS APPOINTMENT TO THE CLINICAL STAFF3. REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF4. STATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFF5. RESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFF
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The MCOB adopted the following credentialing and recredentialing resolution and as a matter of record, noted a similar action approved by the Chair on August 1:

RESOLVED that pursuant to the delegation of authority contained in the May 8, 2003, Resolution of the Medical Center Operating Board, the undersigned Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board hereby approves the following Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions as specifically set forth below:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the appointment as a locum tenens for appointment to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioner is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change in clinical privileges for the following practitioner is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

The Medical Center Operating Board on September 11, 2003CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS1. NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF2. REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF3. SECONDARY REAPPOINTMENT TO THE CLINICAL STAFF4. STATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFF5. RESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFF6. PRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS7. RENEWED PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS8. STATUS CHANGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS9. RESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Friday, August 29

\-

Educational Policy Committee

Tuesday, September 2

\-

Buildings and Grounds Committee Telephonic Meeting

Thursday and Friday September 4-5

\-

UVIMCO Retreat

Thursday, September 11

\-

Medical Center Operating Board

Thursday, October 2

\-

Audit and Compliance Committee

Thursday, October 2

\-

Special Committee on Diversity

Thursday, October 2

\-

External Affairs Committee

Thursday, October 2

\-

Buildings and Grounds Committee

Thursday, October 2

\-

Student Affairs & Athletics Committee

Thursday, October 2

\-

Wise College Committee

Friday, October 3

\-

Finance Committee

Saturday, October 4

\-

Special Committee on Governance

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for secondary reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioner is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change in clinical privileges for the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change of privileges of the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

As a matter of record, the following is a listing of Board Committee meetings held between the July Retreat and the October Board meeting:

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 10:30 a.m.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: October 3-4, 2003 CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session —;' as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia —;' only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration in closed session.

ATTACHMENTPOLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING EXERCISE OF AUTONOMY IN OPERATING AND CAPITAL LEASES OF PROPERTY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING EXERCISE OF AUTONOMY IN OPERATING AND CAPITAL LEASES OF PROPERTY TABLE OF CONTENTS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Page

I.

Preamble

1

II.

Definitions

3

III.

Scope of Policy

4

IV.

Requirements for Leases

4

A. Factors To Be Considered When Entering Into Leases

4

B. Competition to Be Sought to Maximum Practicable Degree

5

C. Procurement of Leases

6

D. Approval of Form of Lease Required

6

E. Execution of Leases

6

F. University as Lessor

7

G. Compliance with Other Provisions of Law

7

H. Certification of Occupancy

8

I. Copies of Leases and Amendments Forwarded to Department of General Services

8

J. Implementation of Board of Visitors Policies, Procedures and Guidelines

9

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING EXERCISE OF AUTONOMY IN OPERATING AND CAPITAL LEASES OF PROPERTY I. Preamble II. Definitions III. Scope of Policy IV. Requirements for Leases A. Factors To Be Considered When Entering Into Leases B. Competition to Be Sought to Maximum Practicable Degree C. Procurement of Leases D. Approval of Form of Lease Required E. Execution of Leases F. University as Lessor G. Compliance with Other Provisions of Law H. Certification of Occupancy I. Copies of Leases and Amendments Forwarded to Department of General Services J. Implementation of Board of Visitors Policies, Procedures and Guidelines
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chapters 995 and 933 of the 1996 Virginia Acts of Assembly (House Bill No. 884 and Senate Bill No. 389, respectively) provide that, subject to certain conditions established in subsection 2 of § 23-77.4 of the legislation, operating leases entered into by the University of Virginia on behalf of the University of Virginia Medical Center shall be exempt from § 2.2-1149 of the Code of Virginia and from any rules, regulations and guidelines of the Commonwealth's Division of Engineering and Buildings in relation to leases of real property from others. Contracts entered into by the University on behalf of the Medical Center are also exempted from § § 2.2-1155 and 23-4.1 of the Code of Virginia in relation to leases of Medical Center real or personal property to others. Exercise of this autonomy in entering into operating leases is to be in compliance with policies, procedures and guidelines adopted by the Board of Visitors which are to direct that competition be sought to the maximum practical degree, that all costs of occupancy are to be considered, and that the use of the space to be leased is necessary and is efficiently planned. Subsection C of § 4-5.08 of the 1996-98 Appropriation Act delegates to the University as a whole the authority granted the Governor and the Commonwealth's Department of General Services ("DGS") in § 2.2- 1149 of the Code of Virginia regarding operating leases for the University other than the Medical Center. This latter delegation supplants the supervisory role of DGS which is established pursuant to § 2.2-1149, the provisions of which have been implemented by policies, procedures and guidelines promulgated by DGS pursuant to this section of the Code of Virginia. This authority has since been continued through 2002- 04 by subsequent legislative action. This latter delegation of authority is subject to certain conditions, the foremost of which is that the Board of Visitors must develop and submit policies, procedures and guidelines governing operating leases by the University for approval by the Secretaries of Finance and Administration by September 1, 1996. More recently § 4-5.08 of the 2003 Appropriation Act extended the delegated authority approved in § 4-5.08 of the 1996 Appropriation Act to include 1) leases of University real or personal property to others and 2) capital leases to the University as a whole provided that such capital leases have been specifically authorized by the Governor or the General Assembly pursuant to the Appropriation Act and have been reviewed and approved by the Treasury Board.

The following provisions of this policy statement constitute the adopted Board of Visitors policies, procedures and guidelines required by the enabling legislation regarding operating and capital leases entered into by the University on behalf of the Medical Center or on behalf of any other part of the University.

The following words and terms, when used in this policy statement, shall have the following meaning unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

"Board of Visitors" means the Rector and Visitors of The University of Virginia.

"Enabling legislation" means Chapters 995 and 933 of the 1996 Virginia Acts of Assembly (House Bill No. 884 and Senate Bill No. 389, respectively), § 4-5.08 of the 1996-98 Appropriation Act, and § 4-5.08 of the 2003 Appropriation Act.

"Operating Lease" means a leasehold interest in real property, or improvements thereon, which is not a Capital Lease as the term "Capital Lease" is defined within Generally Accepted Accounting Principles pursuant to the pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board.

"University" means the University of Virginia, including the Medical Center unless otherwise expressly stated.

"University of Virginia Medical Center" or the "Medical Center" means that part of the University of Virginia Health Sciences Center consisting of the University of Virginia Hospital, referenced in the 1996-98 Appropriation Act as Agency 209, and related health care and health maintenance facilities.

This policy statement applies to operating leases of real property and to capital leases as defined in guidelines established by the Secretary of Finance and as defined in the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. This policy statement applies University-wide; provided, however, for non-Medical Center leases, this policy statement is applicable only during the 2002-04 biennium unless extended or continued by subsequent act of the General Assembly.

The decision to enter into a lease shall be based upon cost, demonstrated need, compliance with the policies, procedures and guidelines established in this policy statement, consideration of all costs of occupancy, and a determination that the use of the space to be leased actually is necessary and is efficiently planned. Leases shall also conform to the space planning procedures, if any, which may be adopted by the President or his designee to ensure that the plan for the space to be leased is consistent with the purpose for which the space is intended.

In addition, capital leases require specific authorization by the Governor or the General Assembly pursuant to the Appropriations Act and approval by the Treasury Board. The authorization and approval must be received prior to procurement of the lease.

Competition shall be sought to the maximum practicable degree when the University seeks to lease real property from another party. The President or his designee is authorized to ensure that leases by the University are procured through competition to the maximum degree practicable and to determine when, under guidelines that may be developed and adopted by the President or his designee, it is impractical to procure leases through competition.

Except where competition is deemed impractical pursuant to Sections IV(B) and IV(F) of this policy statement: (i) leases entered into by the University on behalf of the Medical Center shall be procured as provided in the University of Virginia Medical Center Procurement Guidelines, 8 VAC 85-10-10 et. seq., and (ii) leases entered into by the University for non-Medical Center purposes shall be procured in a manner which complies with the provisions of the Virginia Public Procurement Act, § 11-35 et seq. of the Code of Virginia.

All operating leases entered into by the University and all leases entered into pursuant to Section IV(F) shall be executed by the person or persons designated by the President or his designee.

When University property is leased by the University to another party, the following guidelines shall apply:

The enabling legislation requires that all leases entered into by the University on behalf of the Medical Center shall meet all requirements of law except those from which such leases have been exempted. The University is exempt from any rules, regulations and guidelines of the Division of Engineering and Buildings in relation to leases of real property which it enters into on behalf of the Medical Center. The provisions of § 10.1- 1188 of the Code of Virginia governing Environmental Impact Reviews remain applicable to all University leases which otherwise trigger the requirements of that section. In addition, § 11-72 through 11-80 of the Virginia Public Procurement Act (Ethics in Public Contracting), the State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act, § 2.2-3100 et seq., and the Virginia Governmental Frauds Act, 18.2-498.1 et. seq. of the Code of Virginia, continue to apply to all leases.

It therefore shall be the policy of the University that leases governed by these guidelines shall be entered into so as to comply with the requirements of the Code of Virginia and the Appropriation Act and other provisions of law applicable to leases, including those enacted in the future, except to the extent the Code of Virginia or the Appropriation Act exempt such leases from such requirements.

All property leased by the University pursuant to these guidelines shall be certified for occupancy by the building official of the appropriate public body.

Upon entering leases, and upon any subsequent amendment of such leases, the University shall provide copies of all lease documents and any attachments thereto to the Department of General Services.

The President or his designee is authorized to take such measures as are reasonable and necessary to implement the provisions of these policies, procedures and guidelines and to ensure compliance therewith.