Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

February 4, 2005

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2009

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

March 2, 2005 MEMORANDUM
------------------------

TO:

The Board of Visitors:

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector

Thomas F. Farrell, II, Vice Rector

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

Lewis F. Payne

Susan Y. Dorsey

Don R. Pippin

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Terence P. Ross

W. Heywood Fralin

Thomas A. Saunders, III

James W. Head

Warren M. Thompson

Glynn D. Key

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr.

Mark J. Kington

Georgia M. Willis

John O. Wynne

FROM:

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

SUBJECT:

Correction to the Minutes of the Board of Visitors Meeting of February 4, 2005

TO: The Board of Visitors: Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector Thomas F. Farrell, II, Vice Rector William G. Crutchfield, Jr. Lewis F. Payne Susan Y. Dorsey Don R. Pippin G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr. Terence P. Ross W. Heywood Fralin Thomas A. Saunders, III James W. Head Warren M. Thompson Glynn D. Key E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr. Mark J. Kington Georgia M. Willis John O. Wynne FROM: Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. SUBJECT: Correction to the Minutes of the Board of Visitors Meeting of February 4, 2005

The Minutes of the Board of Visitors meeting of February 4, 2005, should be corrected with the following addendum:to the list of BoardCommittee meetings held between the October, 2004 and February, 2005 meetings should be added a telephonic poll of the Executive Committee, conducted on December 9, and 10, 2004. The Executive Committee approved the following resolution, adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on December 8, 2004:

APPROVAL OF MARKER AT THE SITE OF THE ANATOMICAL THEATRE
--------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that a plaque marking the site be placed at the center of the established foundations of the Anatomical Theatre, built in 1826 and demolished in 1939.

MEMORANDUMPage Two March 2, 2005
--------------------------------

AGG:lah

Copies to:

President John T. Casteen, IIIVice President Leonard W. Sandridge

Site ofThomas Jefferson’sAnatomical Theatre1826-1939 On this site stoodthe first building devoted solely to medical instruction atthe University of Virginia

The Minutes should be corrected further to note that this resolution was adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on December 8th.

February 17, 2004 MEMORANDUM
----------------------------

TO:

The Board of Visitors:

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector

Thomas F. Farrell, II, Vice Rector

Don R. Pippin

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

John R.M. Rodney

Susan Y. Dorsey

Terence P. Ross

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Thomas A. Saunders, III

W. Heywood Fralin

Warren M. Thompson

Glynn D. Key

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr.

Mark J. Kington

Georgia M. Willis

Lewis F. Payne

John O. Wynne

FROM:

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

SUBJECT:

Correction to the Minutes of the Board of Visitors Meeting of February 4, 2005

TO: The Board of Visitors: Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector Thomas F. Farrell, II, Vice Rector Don R. Pippin William G. Crutchfield, Jr. John R.M. Rodney Susan Y. Dorsey Terence P. Ross G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr. Thomas A. Saunders, III W. Heywood Fralin Warren M. Thompson Glynn D. Key E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr. Mark J. Kington Georgia M. Willis Lewis F. Payne John O. Wynne FROM: Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. SUBJECT: Correction to the Minutes of the Board of Visitors Meeting of February 4, 2005

The following resolution, adopted by the Board’s Committee on The University of Virginia’s College at Wise on February 3, 2005, and by the full Board on February 4, was left out of the published Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors held on February 4, 2005.

IN SUPPORT OF A VITA DATA BACKUP CENTER AT WISE
-----------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Virginia Information Technologies Agency, known as VITA, is considering the establishment of a data backup center and associated facilities at a location in the Commonwealth yet to be determined; and

WHEREAS, The University of Virginia’s College at Wise and the Town of Wise and have proposed that the center be established at the Lonesome Pine Regional Business and Technology Park in Wise; and

MEMORANDUMPage TwoFebruary 17, 2005
-----------------------------------

AGG:lah

Copies to:

President John T. Casteen, IIIVice President Leonard W. Sandridge

WHEREAS, the matter is under consideration by the Board of Directors of the LENOWISCO Planning District Commission; and

WHEREAS, a VITA center at Wise would benefit from programs, faculty and students in place at The University of Virginia’s College at Wise and the College, in turn, would benefit from the enhancement of its programs and curricula that a VITA center would bring; and

WHEREAS, the VITA center and the programs it would encourage at the College would be of enormous benefit to economic and educational growth in Southwest Virginia, goals which have been part of the mission of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise since its founding;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors endorses the proposal to establish a VITA data backup center at the Lonesome Pine Regional Business and Technology Park in Wise.

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORSFebruary 4, 2005
------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Approval of the Minutes of the October Meeting of the Board

6786

Resolution to Consider Addenda to the Agenda

6786

Appointments to the Boards of University-Related Foundations

6787

Resolution on Gifts and Grants

6790

Approval to Establish the Bachelor of Science Degree in Computer Science and the Bachelor of Science Degree in Management Information Systems at The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

6792

Approval to Close the Following Programs: M.S. and M.A.M. in Applied Mechanics and the M.S. in Surgery

6793

Ratification of Budget Amendments

6793

Merger of Virginia Ambulatory Surgery, Inc.

6793

Approval of Revisions to Standards of Conduct

6795

Appointment to The University of Virginia’s College at Wise Board

6797

Approval of 2005-2006 Tuition and Fees for Certain Graduate Degree Programs

6797

Approval of Student Housing Rates for 2005-2006

6798

Approval of the Summary of Audit Findings

6802

Setting a Goal for the Capital Campaign

6802

Kosciuszko Chair Endowment Fund

6802

Naming the New McIntire School Building

6803

PAGE

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

6803

Change in the Title of the Election of Dr. Bankole A. Johnson

6809

Change in the Effective Date and Salary of the Election of Ms. Erika L. Day

6809

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Election of Chairholders

6809

Change of Title of Chairholders

6811

Change in the Date of the Election of Mr. Caleb E. Nelson

6811

Correction to the Election of Ms. Marcia A. Invernizzi

6811

Special Salary Action of Chairholders

6812

Change in the Title of the Retirement of Dr. Richard F. Edlich

6813

Change in the Title of the Emeritus Election of Dr. Richard F. Edlich

6813

Cancellation of the Promotion of Ms. Debra E. Lyon

6813

Special Salary Actions

6814

Resignations

6820

Retirements

6821

Appointments

6822

Re-Appointments

6822

Re-election of Mr. R. Edward Howell as Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the University of Virginia Medical Center

6823

Re-election of Dr. Robert E. Reynolds as Vice President and Chief Information Officer

6823

Resignation of Mr. William W. Harmon as Senior Vice President

6823

Change in the Term of the Re-election of Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr.

6823

Election of Professors Emeriti

6824

Deaths

6824

The University of Virginia’s College at Wise Elections

6825

Special Salary Actions

6825

Appointment of Non-Voting Student Member to the Board of Visitors

6826

Resolution Commending William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

6826

Resolution Commending Terence P. Ross

6827

PAGE

Establishment of the John C. Buchanan Distinguished Professorship in Internal Medicine

6828

Establishment of the Karen Jargowsky Professorship in Pediatric Hematology/Oncology

6829

Establishment of the Newton and Rita Meyers Professorship in Economics of Education

6829

Establishment of the Eleanor Shea Professorship in Art History

6830

Establishment of the Eleanor Shea Professorship in Music

6830

Meeting of the Medical Center Operating Board, December 2, 2004

6833

Meeting of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, December 8, 2004

6845

Meeting of the Medical Center Operating Board, February 3, 2005

6846

TENTATIVE MINUTESSUBJECT TO THEAPPROVAL OF THEBOARD OF VISITORSFebruary 4, 2005
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 9:30 a.m., Friday, February 4, 2005, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector, presided. Thomas F. Farrell, II, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., W. Heywood Fralin, Ms. Glynn D. Key, Mark J. Kington, Lewis F. Payne, Don R. Pippin, Terence P. Ross, Warren M. Thompson, E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., Ms. Georgia M. Willis, John O. Wynne, and James W. Head were present.

Present as well were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, R. Ariel Gomez, M.D., R. Edward Howell, Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Ms. Yoke San L. Reynolds, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

Also present were Ms. Nicole F. Hurd, Ms. Meghan E. Sullivan, Markus A. Weisner, Theodore H. Genoways, Larry J. Sabato, Ms. Eleanor Shannon Salem, and J. Sargeant Reynolds, Jr.

The Rector asked Mr. Ross to lead the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.

APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE OCTOBER 1-2, 2004 MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On motion, the Minutes of the October 1-2, 2004 meeting of the Board of Visitors were approved.

RESOLUTION TO CONSIDER ADDITIONS TO THE AGENDA
----------------------------------------------

The Rector asked for approval, as required in the Board Manual, for the consideration of addenda to the published Agenda for the Board meeting. The following resolution approving the additions to the Agenda was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED, the consideration of addenda to the published Agenda of the Board of Visitors meeting of February 4, 2005, is approved.

The Rector took note of the fact that Messrs. Crutchfield and Ross will go off the Board at the end of February, each having completed two full terms of service.

APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARDS OF UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONS
------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector thus announced the following appointments:

To the Alumni Board of Trustees

Mr. J. Davis Hamlin

To the College Foundation

Mr. Timothy B. Robertson

To the Law School Foundation and the Law School Alumni Association

Mr. Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

To the Medical School Alumni Association and the Medical School Foundation

Dr. Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

To the Tax Foundation

Mr. Joseph C. Carter, Jr.

To the Health Services Foundation

Dr. E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr.

Appointments of Board of Visitors representatives to the boards of the University-related foundations customarily are made at the fall Board of Visitors meeting. If appointments come due in the interval between these meetings, the Rector is empowered to make appointments and reports these to the Board at the next Board of Visitors meeting.

Each of these representatives of the Board of Visitors will serve four year terms.

INTRODUCTION OF THE RHODES AND MITCHELL SCHOLARS
------------------------------------------------

Noting that it gave him great pride and pleasure to do so, the Rector introduced the University’s two Rhodes Scholars, Ms. Meghan Sullivan of Greensboro, North Carolina, and – in absentia – Mr. Justin Mutter of Chattanooga, Tennessee (Mr. Mutter is working in Haiti); Ms. Sullivan and Mr. Mutter will matriculate in the University of Oxford in the fall. Ms. Sullivan will read philosophy and Mr. Mutter will read theology.

The Rector also introduced Mr. Markus Weisner of Midlothian, the University’s Mitchell Scholar. The Mitchell Scholarship provides for a year of study in Ireland, and Mr. Weisner will matriculate in Trinity College, Dublin, in the fall.

The Rector next introduced Ms. Nicole Hurd, the Director of the Center for Undergraduate Excellence, and explained that Ms. Hurd had overseen the selection process for both the Rhodes and the Mitchell at the University, and had encouraged and advised Ms. Sullivan and Messrs. Mutter and Weisner through the further stages of the national competitions for both scholarships.

THE PRESIDENT’S REPORT
----------------------

The President gave his customary report to the Board.

The President gave a quick overview of legislation of interest to the University pending in the General Assembly, particularly the charter bills.

The President then reported to the Board that the Virginia Quarterly Review in December was given the Parnassus Award for Significant Editorial Achievement by the Council of Editors of Learned Journals. The Parnassus Award “recognizes a single issue, published within the previous three years, that epitomizes the journal’s mission and at the same time meets the highest standards of editorial practice.” The issue of the Quarterly cited by the Council was the Spring 2004 issue, only the second issue of the magazine produced under the editorship of Mr. Theodore Genoways. The President then introduced Mr. Genoways to the Board.

The President noted the recent death of The Honorable Hunter Andrews, who represented the City of Hampton in the Senate in Richmond for many years. Senator Andrews, who was Chair of the Senate Finance Committee, was a great friend to higher education.

The President also noted the death of Ms. Shirley Menaker, Associate Provost, and the departure of Mr. William Harmon, Senior Vice President, in December to become the President of Central College in the Houston Community College system.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

Private giving to the University and its related foundations in the current fiscal year, up to November 30th, is $55.2million, an increase of 15% above the same period last year.

Among the significant gifts received since the last meeting of the Board are $6million in pledge payments to the Virginia Athletics Foundation, the College, and the Jefferson Scholars Foundation. Mr. Daniel M. Meyers of Marblehead, Massachusetts. gave $5.2million to the Curry School for the Newton and Rita Meyers Professorship and toward the construction of a new building.

The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society of America made a $4.8million grant to the School of Medicine for cancer research and Amvest Corporation of Charlottesville gave a $2million pledge payment toward the football stadium projects at both the University and at the College at Wise. Mr. Julian H. Robertson, Jr. gave $1.5million to the McIntire School of Commerce Foundation towards its building campaign. The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation made a $1.4million private grant to the University Library and Mr. Albert H. Small gave $1.5million to the Library – which represents another five percent interest in the copy of the Declaration of Independence and additional gifts to the Library.

Some new pledges made since the October meeting of the Board include money to the School of Medicine for the MR6 Building, to the College for Environmental Sciences, to the Jefferson Scholars Foundation, to the McIntire School building campaign, and to the Law School Foundation.

THE SABATO GIFT
---------------

The President reported to the Board on a unique and special gift.

Larry J. Sabato, University Professor and Director of the Center for the Study of Politics, as a student thirty years ago, promised President Shannon that he would give a million dollars to the University. He has now pledged $1million to the University’s campaign to support the Center for Politics. The President noted that even though Mr. Sabato is legendary for his frugal lifestyle, his gift represents a tremendous personal sacrifice and a devotion to the University that is unmatched.

The President then read a letter from the Governor to Mr. Sabato that he had been asked to deliver.

Mr. Sabato, on the President’s invitation, spoke briefly and introduced two special guests: Ms. Eleanor Shannon Salem, the late President and Mrs. Shannon’s oldest daughter, and Mr. J. Sargeant Reynolds, Jr., son of the late Lieutenant Governor of the Commonwealth.

RESOLUTION ON GIFTS AND GRANTS
------------------------------

By resolution, the Board voted to accept the President’s Gifts and Grants Report.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
-----------------

From 10:30 to 11:00, the Board heard, in Open Session, reports from each of the Committee Chairs on business discussed in their respective committee meetings.

POLICY DISCUSSION
-----------------

After a short recess, the Board resumed, in Open Session, at 11:15, for a policy discussion, “Addressing the University’s Deferred Maintenance Backlog.” The discussion continued until 12:35 p.m.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------

At 12:35 p.m., after adopting the following motions, the Board went into Executive Session. All Members in attendance at the morning sessions were present.

That the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Executive Session to review and discuss audit of specific University and Medical Center departments including consulting with General Counsel on compliance with federal CMS regulations. Our oversight review will involve evaluating the performance of specific University managers and personnel and, in the case of the Medical Center, evaluation of its proprietary business-

related information relating to adequacy of billing documentation and fiscal management practices where disclosure at this time would adversely affect the competitive position of the Medical Center. This is provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1), (7) and (23) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and/or approving personnel actions involving the appointment, reappointment, nomination, evaluation, compensation, and resignation of University officers and employees as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors convene in Executive Session to consult with General Counsel regarding his privileged legal report to the Board on pending and anticipated litigation affecting the University; and such other matters as may arise with respect to University operations requiring the provision of legal advice and counsel, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors convene in Executive Session to discuss and evaluate matters relating to gifts, bequests and fund-raising activities including a naming opportunity associated with a proposed gift, the use and disposition of funds endowing a chaired position, and campaign fund-raising strategies and priorities; as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (4),(7), and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Executive Session to consider the appointment of a specific student member to the Board of Visitors in accordance with Section 2.2-3711 (A)(1) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board recessed at 1:15 p.m. for lunch.

At 2:45 p.m., the Board reconvened in Executive Session and continued until 4:05 p.m. when, after voting to certify that its meeting in Executive Session had been conducted in accord with the exemptions permitted by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, it recessed for five minutes and then resumed its meeting in Open Session.

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member’s knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

The Board resumed its meeting at 4:10 p.m.; all Members present for the Executive Session, save Mr. Kington, were present.

In Open Session, the Board adopted the following resolutions:

APPROVAL TO ESTABLISH THE BACHELOR OF SCIENCE DEGREE IN COMPUTER SCIENCE AND THE BACHELOR OF SCIENCE DEGREE IN MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the faculty and administration of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise have proposed and approved the inclusion of the Bachelor of Science in Computer Science degree and the Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems degree in the curriculum; and

WHEREAS, the Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and the Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems degrees are expected to attract students from the region who might go elsewhere; and

WHEREAS, these two new programs will provide students with education in areas needed by businesses in the region; and

WHEREAS, such education will assist Wise County and the surrounding counties in attracting new business and industry to the region;

RESOLVED that, subject to approval by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, the Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and the Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems be approved for addition to the curriculum at The University of Virginia’s College at Wise.

APPROVAL TO CLOSE THE FOLLOWING PROGRAMS: M.S. AND M.A.M. IN APPLIED MECHANICS AND THE M.S. IN SURGERY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the M.S. and M.A.M. in Applied Mechanics in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, and the M.S. in Surgery in the School of Medicine be closed. After thorough review by the University and the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, these programs were deemed no longer viable, and in each instance the Faculty Senate has endorsed closure.

RATIFICATION OF BUDGET AMENDMENTS
---------------------------------

WHEREAS, the additional 2004-2006 budget amendments have been carefully reviewed; and

WHEREAS, the budget amendments represent additional high priority initiatives and are aligned with the mission of the institution; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors authorized the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to transmit to the General Assembly any request not funded by the Governor as long as there are no material differences from the items already endorsed by the Board of Visitors;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia endorses and supports the additional 2004-2006 budget amendments; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to transmit the final proposed budget amendments to the General Assembly.

MERGER OF VIRGINIA AMBULATORY SURGERY, INC.EXHIBIT APLAN OF MERGER
------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that pursuant to Virginia Code Section 13.1-895(B), the Board of Visitors approves the plan of merger of Virginia Ambulatory Surgery, Inc., shown as Exhibit A on page four, into the University of Virginia; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University be authorized to approve and execute all documents on behalf of the University and Virginia Ambulatory Surgery, Inc., and to take such other actions as he deems necessary and appropriate to consummate the merger.

Virginia Ambulatory Surgery, Inc., is a Virginia non-stock corporation whose sole member is the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, which has determined that it is advisable that Virginia Ambulatory Surgery, Inc., be merged with and into The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a public corporation and agency of the Commonwealth of Virginia existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

APPROVAL OF REVISIONS TO STANDARDS OF CONDUCT ATTACHMENT UNIVERSITY JUDICIARY COMMITTEESTANDARDS OF CONDUCT (Revised)February 3, 2005
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors adopts the Standards of Conduct, which describe behavior generally prohibited by enrolled students; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors last revised the Standards of Conduct on March 22, and April 6, 2001; and

WHEREAS, among the revisions adopted in 2001 was the extension of jurisdiction in cases of physical and sexual assault to include assaults occurring within the city of Charlottesville and Albemarle County; and

WHEREAS, the University Judiciary Committee has proposed the same extension of jurisdiction in other cases of serious student misconduct, including conduct that intentionally or recklessly threatens the health or safety of any person or substantial damage to property;

RESOLVED, the document which follows as an attachment, entitled “University Judiciary Committee Standards of Conduct Revised February 3, 2005,” which integrates the 2001 revisions, and includes the extension of jurisdiction to the city of Charlottesville and Albemarle County with respect to Standards two and nine, as proposed by the Judiciary Committee, is approved.

APPOINTMENT TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE BOARD
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Crutchfield abstained from voting.

RESOLVED that Mr. William G. Crutchfield, Jr., of Charlottesville, be appointed to the Board of The University of Virginia's College at Wise for a term beginning March 1, 2005, and ending June 30, 2006, to fill the unexpired term of Mr. Earl Wendell Barnette.

APPROVAL OF 2005-2006 TUITION AND FEES FOR CERTAIN GRADUATE DEGREE PROGRAMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2004-05 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2005-06 Proposed

2004-05 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 2005-2006

MIT

$33,261

$33

0.1%

$33,294

$38,261

$48

0.1%

$38,309

Price includes fees of $10,294 Virginian/$10,309 Non-Virginian for special session mandatory fee, books, materials, computer leasing, software licenses, group meals, and lodging.

SystemsEng.

$29,500

$2,000

6.8%

$31,500

$29,500

$7,000

23.7%

$36,500

Price includes fees of $11,907 Virginian/$11,922 Non-Virginian for special session mandatory fee, books, materials, technology, group meals, and lodging.

RESOLVED that the tuition and fees applicable to the following graduate degree programs be approved as shown below, effective May 1, 2005:

APPROVAL OF STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 2005-2006 Notes:
------------------------------------------------------

Facility

Actual2004-2005Per StudentPer Session

AmountofIncrease

% IncreaseBeforeImprovementFee

StudentHousingImprovementFund Fee

TotalPercentIncrease

Proposed2005-2006Per StudentPer Session

Academic Division

DORMITORIES

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Double Room

$2,930

$120

4.10%

$200

10.92%

$3,250

Brown College

Double Room

$3,550

$140

3.94%

$200

9.58%

$3,890

McCormick Road

Double Room

$2,810

$110

3.91%

$200

11.03%

$3,120

Small Double Room

$2,600

$100

3.85%

$200

11.54%

$2,900

Single

$2,940

$120

4.08%

$200

10.88%

$3,260

Lawn

Small Single

$3,400

$140

4.12%

$200

10.00%

$3,740

Regular Single

$3,400

$140

4.12%

$200

10.00%

$3,740

Small Single (no fireplace)

$3,310

$130

3.93%

$200

9.97%

$3,640

Range

Regular Single

$3,400

$140

4.12%

$200

10.00%

$3,740

Crackerbox

Single Room

$3,400

$140

4.12%

$200

10.00%

$3,740

Mary Munford/ Roberta Gwathmey

Double Room

$2,930

$120

4.10%

$200

10.92%

$3,250

Single Room

$3,400

$140

4.12%

$200

10.00%

$3,740

Sprigg (Lewis/Hoxton)

Small Double Room

$3,090

$120

3.88%

$200

10.36%

$3,410

Double Room

$3,270

$130

3.98%

$200

10.09%

$3,600

Single Room

$3,590

$140

3.90%

$200

9.47%

$3,930

Single Room (w/bath)

$3,760

$150

3.99%

$200

9.31%

$4,110

Gooch/Dillard

Double Room

$3,270

$130

3.98%

$200

10.09%

$3,600

Single Room

$3,590

$140

3.90%

$200

9.47%

$3,930

Twelve Month Rate:

Single Room

$4,900

$200

4.08%

$200

8.16%

$5,300

Hereford College

Double Room

$3,270

$130

3.98%

$200

10.09%

$3,600

Single Room

$3,550

$140

3.94%

$200

9.58%

$3,890

Facility

Actual2004-2005Per StudentPer Session

AmountofIncrease

% IncreaseBeforeImprovementFee

StudentHousingImprovementFund Fee

TotalPercentIncrease

Proposed2005-2006Per StudentPer Session

French House

Triple Room

$3,110

$120

3.86%

$200

10.29%

$3,430

Double Room

$3,270

$130

3.98%

$200

10.09%

$3,600

Single Room

$3,660

$150

4.10%

$200

9.56%

$4,010

Russia House

Double Room

$3,250

$130

4.00%

$200

10.15%

$3,580

Single Room

$3,600

$140

3.89%

$200

9.44%

$3,940

Spanish House

Double Room

$3,270

$130

3.98%

$200

10.09%

$3,600

Single Room

$3,660

$150

4.10%

$200

9.56%

$4,010

Shea House

Double Room

$3,270

$130

3.96%

$200

10.09%

$3,600

Single Room

$3,660

$150

4.10%

$200

9.56%

$4,010

APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENT

Copeley Hill III, IV, Lambeth Field

Two Bedroom (double occupancy)

$3,300

$130

3.94%

$200

10.00%

$3,630

Three Bedroom (double occupancy)

$3,200

$130

4.06%

$200

10.31%

$3,530

Bice House

Two Bedroom (double occupancy)

$3,300

$130

3.94%

$200

10.00%

$3,630

Three Bedroom (double occupancy)

$3,200

$130

4.06%

$200

10.31%

$3,530

Single

$3,640

$150

4.12%

$200

9.62%

$3,990

Faulkner (Hench, Mitchell, Younger)

Single

$3,640

$150

4.12%

$200

9.62%

$3,990

Large Single

$4,350

$170

3.91%

$200

8.51%

$4,720

APARTMENTS - FAMILY (per month)

Copeley Hill I & II

One Bedroom (furnished)

$650

$26

4.00%

$15

6.31%

$691

One Bedroom (unfurnished)

$617

$25

4.05%

$15

6.48%

$657

Two Bedroom (furnished)

$712

$28

3.93%

$15

6.04%

$755

Two Bedroom (unfurnished)

$680

$27

3.97%

$15

6.18%

$722

Three Bedroom (furnished)

$768

$31

4.04%

$15

5.99%

$814

Three Bedroom (unfurnished)

$736

$29

3.94%

$15

5.98%

$780

University Gardens

One Bedroom (furnished)

$634

$25

3.94%

$15

6.31%

$674

One Bedroom (unfurnished)

$602

$24

3.99%

$15

6.48%

$641

Two Bedroom (furnished)

$682

$27

3.96%

$15

6.16%

$724

Two Bedroom (unfurnished)

$649

$26

4.01%

$15

6.32%

$690

Facility

Actual2004-2005Per StudentPer Session

AmountofIncrease

% IncreaseBeforeImprovementFee

StudentHousingImprovementFund Fee

TotalPercentIncrease

Proposed2005-2006Per StudentPer Session

College At Wise

McCraray

$2,808

$211

7.51%

$0

7.51%

$3,019

Asbury, Thompson, Henson, Martha Randolph, Townhouses, Theme Housing

$3,244

$244

7.52%

$0

7.52%

$3,488

RESOLVED that rental increases for student housing facilities be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 2005-2006 session:

MOUNTAIN LAKE BIOLOGICAL STATION RATES
--------------------------------------

Actual 2004

Proposed 2005 Rate

Percent Increase

BOARD RATES PER TERM (4 weeks)

Persons 17 years & older

$531.00

$550.00

3.58%

Persons 10-16 years old

$319.00

$330.00

3.45%

Persons 9 yrs & younger

$170.00

$176.00

3.53%

SUMMER HOUSING RATES PER TERM (4 weeks)

CABINS

$176.00

$185.00

2.78%

LAING APTS

$134.00

$141.00

2.92%

DORMS/SINGLES

$ 97.00

$100.00

3.09%

NEW DORM:

Apts (2 rooms)

$155.00

$161.00

2.55%

2nd bedroom (family)

$ 49.00

$ 51.00

2.00%

Singles

$110.00

$115.00

2.68%

Actual 2004

Proposed 2005 Rate

Percent Increase

OFF SEASON RATES

Singles/Guests:

Night

$ 11.50

$ 12.00

4.35%

Week

$ 56.50

$ 58.00

2.65%

Month

$225.50

$232.00

2.88%

Family:

Night

$ 15.50

$ 16.00

3.23%

Week

$ 76.00

$ 80.00

5.26%

Month

$301.50

$320.00

6.14%

GROUP USE FEES (OFF-SEASON)

Classroom/day

$ 32.00

$ 33.00

3.13%

Dining Hall/day

$ 57.50

$ 60.00

4.35%

New Dorm Kitchen/day

$ 32.00

$ 33.00

3.13%

Auditorium/day

$ 32.00

$ 33.00

3.13%

Pavilion only

No charge

Computer Lab/day

$ 52.50

$ 54.00

2.86%

APPROVAL OF THE SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-----------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period August 1, 2004, through December 31, 2004, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit & Compliance Committee.

SETTING A GOAL FOR THE CAPITAL CAMPAIGN
---------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors, the President of the University, and the Campaign Executive Committee have made an extensive study of the needs of the University and the feasibility of raising the private funds necessary to meet these needs;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors, based on its deliberations and the recommendations of the President and the Campaign Executive Committee, sets a working goal of $3 billion for the Capital Campaign.

KOSCIUSZKO CHAIR ENDOWMENT FUND
-------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University received gifts from a number of donors that were used to create an endowment for a fully endowed Chair of Polish Studies within the Miller Center called the Kosciuszko Chair; and

WHEREAS, it is in the best interests of the University and the donors to transfer certain private gift monies from the endowment for the Chair to the American Institute of Polish Culture, a tax-exempt private entity;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors authorizes the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to transfer to the American Institute of Polish Culture all of the Kosciuszko Chair Endowment Fund except for $150,000, which will be retained by the University. The monies so transferred will be administered under the terms and conditions established by the donors.

NAMING THE NEW MCINTIRE SCHOOL BUILDING
---------------------------------------

WHEREAS, an alumnus donor, who prefers not to be identified publicly at this time, has made a generous gift toward the construction of the new McIntire School building adjoining Rouss Hall; and

WHEREAS, the University Names Committee, on recommendation by the President, has proposed that the building be named for the donor;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors on February 4, 2005, concurs with the recommendation of the President and the University Names Committee and names the building for the donor; out of respect for the donor’s request for anonymity, however, the name will be made public on a future date to be determined mutually by the donor and the President; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Board expresses its appreciation for the donor’s generosity and support.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSCHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE ELECTION OF DR. BANKOLE A. JOHNSONCHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE AND SALARY OF THE ELECTION OF MS. ERIKA L. DAY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the election of Dr. Bankole A. Johnson as Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, effective September 1, 2004, at an annual salary of $100,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated September 30-October 2, 2004, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Erika L. Day as Assistant Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period August 25, 2004, through June 30, 2007, at an annual salary of $40,700, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated June 10-12, 2004, be changed to read as follows:

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Election of Chairholders(b) Change of Title of Chairholders(c) Change in the Date of the Election of Mr. Caleb E. Nelson(d) Correction to the Election of Ms. Marcia A. Invernizzi(e) Special Salary Action of Chairholders(f) Change in the Title of the Retirement of Dr. Richard F. Edlich(g) Change in the Title of the Emeritus Election of Dr. Richard F. Edlich
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the election of Mr. Caleb E. Nelson as Albert Clark Tate, Jr., Professor of Law, for three years, effective May 24, 2004, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated September 30-October 2, 2004, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the election, which should have been a change of title, of Ms. Marcia A. Invernizzi as Edmund H. Henderson Professor of Education, effective August 25, 2004, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated September 30-October 2, 2004, be corrected to read as follows:

The President announced that the title of the retirement of Dr. Richard F. Edlich, Raymond F. Morgan Professor of Plastic Surgery and Professor of Biomedical Engineering, effective October 31, 2001, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated January 25-26, 2002, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the title of the Emeritus Election of Dr. Richard F. Edlich, Raymond F. Morgan Professor of Plastic Surgery and Professor of Biomedical Engineering, effective October 31, 2001, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated January 25-26, 2002, be changed to read as follows:

CANCELLATION OF THE PROMOTION OF MS. DEBRA E. LYON
--------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the promotion of Ms. Debra E. Lyon from Assistant Professor of Nursing to Associate Professor of Nursing, effective August 25, 2004, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated June 10-12, 2004, be cancelled. Ms. Lyon resigned on May 24, 2004.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced:

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced:

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced:

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced:

RE-ELECTION OF MR. R. EDWARD HOWELL AS VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Mr. R. Edward Howell is re-elected Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the University of Virginia Medical Center, for three years, effective February 25, 2005.

RE-ELECTION OF DR. ROBERT E. REYNOLDS AS VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Dr. Robert E. Reynolds is re-elected Vice President and Chief Information Officer, for one year, effective August 1, 2004.

RESIGNATION OF MR. WILLIAM W. HARMON AS SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT
-------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced the resignation of Mr. William W. Harmon, Senior Vice President, effective December 24, 2004, to accept another position.

CHANGE IN THE TERM OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. LEONARD W. SANDRIDGE, JR.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the re-election of Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, for five years, effective July 1, 2003, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated January 31-February 1, 2003, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., is re-elected Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, for six years, effective July 1, 2003.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

DEATHS
------

The following deaths were announced:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISEELECTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

APPOINTMENT OF NON-VOTING STUDENT MEMBER TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
-----------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED, Catherine S. Neale of Richmond is elected the Student Member of the Board, to succeed James W. Head at the conclusion of the April, 2005 Board meeting, and to serve for one year.

RESOLUTION COMMENDING WILLIAM G. CRUTCHFIELD, JR.
-------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., a native of Charlottesville, took a B.S. from the McIntire School of Commerce in 1965; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Crutchfield, parlayed a juvenile interest in electronics into a home-based mail order car stereo business and from there to the Crutchfield Corporation, one of the country’s largest mail order retailers of consumer electronics; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Crutchfield was appointed to the Board of Visitors in 1997 and reappointed in 2001; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Crutchfield has rendered wise and distinguished service to the Board and to the University, not only with his business acumen but also by his detailed understanding of the workings of the University Hospital; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Crutchfield has developed a great interest in, and affection for, the Coalfield Counties of the Southwestern part of the Commonwealth, to the point where he has nearly official accreditation as the Ambassador of the Board of Visitors to Wise County; and

WHEREAS, not the least of Mr. Crutchfield’s services to the Board of Visitors has been his generosity in transporting Members of the Board on flights of Air Crutchfield between Charlottesville and the Lonesome Pine Airport, even to the point of tolerating Members as occasional co-pilots;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors thanks its colleague and friend, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., for his friendship and for his devoted service to the Board and to the University and while expressing regret at his departure from the Board after eight years of exemplary service, takes heart that he will be nearby and, given the generosity of his nature, available for advice and commiseration.

RESOLUTION COMMENDING TERENCE P. ROSS
-------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Terence P. Ross of Alexandria took the J.D. from the School of Law in 1983, having compiled a brilliant academic record there and at Stanford University, his undergraduate alma mater; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Ross, on completion of his legal studies, clerked for Judge Robb on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, after which he joined the Washington office of the firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Ross has had a most distinguished career as a lawyer and has argued cases before the highest courts in the land; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Ross was appointed to the Board of Visitors in 1997 and reappointed in 2001; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Ross has served the Board and the University with great dedication, and with a special lawyerly concern for following the straight and narrow in the conduct of both the Board’s business and the University’s; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Ross, in his pursuit of the straight and narrow, has saved his colleagues, individually and as a group, from all manner of difficulty; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Ross’ second term expires at the end of February, an occasion much regretted by his colleagues;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors thanks Terence P. Ross, its colleague, for his friendship, for his intellect, and for his devoted service to the University, and once again congratulates Mr. and Mrs. Ross on the birth of their twins summer before last.

The Board recessed at 4:20 to move to the Dome Room.

ESTABLISHMENT OF PROFESSORSHIPS ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOHN C. BUCHANAN DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN INTERNAL MEDICINEESTABLISHMENT OF THE KAREN JARGOWSKY PROFESSORSHIP IN PEDIATRIC HEMATOLOGY/ONCOLOGYESTABLISHMENT OF THE NEWTON AND RITA MEYERS PROFESSORSHIP IN ECONOMICS OF EDUCATIONESTABLISHMENT OF THE ELEANOR SHEA PROFESSORSHIP IN ART HISTORYESTABLISHMENT OF THE ELEANOR SHEA PROFESSORSHIP IN MUSIC
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board reconvened in the Dome Room of the Rotunda at 4:30 p.m.; all Members present at the previous session, save Messrs. Thompson and Wynne, were present. With Mr. Sandridge presenting the proposed resolutions vice the President, who had been called to Richmond, the Board approved the following resolutions creating professorships:

WHEREAS, Dr. John Chalkley Buchanan, a native of Dickenson County, took both the B.S. and the M.D. from the University of Virginia; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Buchanan practiced medicine in Wise for many years; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Buchanan represented the far southwestern counties in the Senate in Richmond for nearly twenty years; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Buchanan was a tireless and effective advocate for his region and for the University of Virginia until his death in 1991; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Buchanan’s late sister-in-law, Dr. Jean Lui Phipps, made a generous bequest to the University to create an endowment for a professorship honoring Dr. Buchanan;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the John C. Buchanan Distinguished Professorship in Internal Medicine, to be held in the Department of Internal Medicine in the School of Medicine, and expresses gratitude not only for the generosity of the late Dr. Phipps, but also for Dr. Buchanan’s years of service to the University and to the Commonwealth.

WHEREAS, Karen Jargowsky of Botetourt County suffered from acute mylogenous leukemia and was treated at the University Hospital in 1997; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Jargowsky’s cancer went into remission after treatment by chemotheraphy and she matriculated in the College of Arts and Sciences in August, 1997; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Jargowsky’s cancer returned and she died on April 13, 1998; and

WHEREAS, before Ms. Jargowsky died, the first of four annual Snowballs was held to raise money for a professorship to be named in her honor; and

WHEREAS, in addition to the money raised by the Snowballs, there have been many donors, individual and corporate, to the Jargowsky Chair;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Karen Jargowsky Professorship in Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, to be held in the Department of Pediatrics in the School of Medicine, thanks the many donors who have made the Professorship possible, and salutes the memory of Karen Jargowsky whose life and death touched so many people.

WHEREAS, Daniel Maxwell Meyers of Boston has made a generous gift to the Curry School of Education; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Meyers’ gift has been matched with funds provided by the Thomas A. Saunders family; and

WHEREAS, it is Mr. Meyers’ intent that his gift be used to establish a professorship in the Curry School; and

WHEREAS, the professorship would honor Mr. Meyer’s mother, Rita Meyers, and the memory of his father, the late Newton Meyers, as well as the importance the Meyers family attaches to higher education and access to it;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Newton and Rita Meyers Professorship in Economics of Education, thanks Daniel Maxwell Meyers and the family of Thomas A. Saunders for their generosity in providing funds for the Professorship, and commends the support of the Meyers family for higher education.

WHEREAS, the late Eleanor Gray Shea was a thoughtful and often anonymous patron of the arts in Charlottesville and at the University; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Shea left funds, as a bequest, to support professorships in Architecture, in Music, and in Art History; and

WHEREAS, these funds were augmented at his death by Mrs. Shea’s husband, Vincent Shea; and

WHEREAS, the Professorship in Architecture was established by the Board on October 1, 2004;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Eleanor Shea Professorship in Art History and in so doing, pays homage to the memory of Mrs. Shea and her numerous benefactions to the University.

WHEREAS, the late Eleanor Gray Shea was a thoughtful and often anonymous patron of the arts in Charlottesville and at the University; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Shea left funds, as a bequest, to support professorships in Architecture, in Music, and in Art History; and

WHEREAS, these funds were augmented at his death by Mrs. Shea’s husband, Vincent Shea; and

WHEREAS, the Professorship in Architecture was established by the Board on October 1, 2004;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Eleanor Shea Professorship in Music and in so doing, pays homage to the memory of Mrs. Shea and her numerous

REPORT ON NAMINGSTHE CHARLES W. GROSS RHINOLOGY LABORATORY IN THE DEPARTMENT OF OTOLARYNGOLOGY IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINEJAMES T. HAMLIN, III, M.D., READING ROOM IN THE CLAUDE MOORE HEALTH SCIENCES LIBRARYCLIFTON WALLER BARRETT READING ROOM IN THE MARY AND DAVID HARRISON INSTITUTE FOR AMERICAN HISTORY, LITERATURE, AND CULTURE, AND THE ALBERT AND SHIRLEY SMALL SPECIAL COLLECTIONS LIBRARY LILLIAN GARY TAYLOR ROOM IN THE MARY AND DAVID HARRISON INSTITUTE FOR AMERICAN HISTORY, LITERATURE, AND CULTURE, AND THE ALBERT AND SHIRLEY SMALL SPECIAL COLLECTIONS LIBRARYMARION DUPONT SCOTT CONFERENCE ROOM IN THE MARY AND DAVID HARRISON INSTITUTE FOR AMERICAN HISTORY, LITERATURE, AND CULTURE, AND THE ALBERT AND SHIRLEY SMALL SPECIAL COLLECTIONS LIBRARYWILLIAM AND ELIZABETH MILLHISER MORRIS SEMINAR ROOM IN THE MARY AND DAVID HARRISON INSTITUTE FOR AMERICAN HISTORY, LITERATURE, AND CULTURE, AND THE ALBERT AND SHIRLEY SMALL SPECIAL COLLECTIONS LIBRARY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Substituting for the President, Mr. Sandridge reported to the Board on the following namings, which did not require Board action:

This laboratory is named in honor of Dr. Gross, an alumnus of the Medical School, who has been Professor of Otolaryngology – Head and Neck Surgery and Pediatrics since 1990.

The Hamlin Reading Room is named in memory of the late Dr. James T. Hamlin, III of Danville, who died in 2004. An alumnus, Dr. Hamlin was Dean of the Tulane University Medical School from 1974 to 1988. Dr. Hamlin’s classmates from the Medical School Class of 1955 are directing their reunion gifts to the Claude Moore Health Sciences Library in support of the Hamlin Reading Room.

The Barrett Room honors the late Clifton Waller Barrett; the name is being transferred from a room, named some years ago, on the second floor of the Alderman Library. Mr. Barrett, who was a Member of the Board of Visitors from 1969 to 1979, was an alumnus and a noted bibliophile. He gave the University one of the finest collections of American literature ever assembled. He was a tireless and driving force in building the University Library’s Special Collections.

The Taylor Room is a reading room on the second floor of the new Special Collections Library. It honors the memory of Lillian Gary Taylor, a Baltimorean who assembled – and gave to the University – a remarkable and unique collection of American popular fiction from 1752 through 1950. Mrs. Taylor and her husband, Robert Coleman Taylor in addition were generous benefactors of the University Library.

Marion duPont Scott, who owned “Montpelier” in Orange County, was a noted horsewoman. She bequeathed the University her important collection of books and periodicals on the history and practice of equestrian and related sports, she left an endowment to be used for adding to the collection, and she bequeathed a major gift toward the construction of the new Special Collections Library.

William Morris of Princeton and New York was an alumnus and a bibliophile. He donated part of his collection to the University and he and Mrs. Morris bequeathed funds to be used for the Special Collections Library Building Fund to establish an endowment for rare books.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 4:50 p.m.

The following resolutions were adopted by Board Committees since the October meeting of the full Board. They do not require action by the full Board and are listed here as a matter of record:

MEETING OF THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD, DECEMBER 2, 2004CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONSNEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFLOCUM TENENS APPOINTMENT TO THE CLINICAL STAFFREAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFSTATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFFRESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFFPRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSRENEWAL OF PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSSTATUS CHANGE FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALRESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the appointment as a locum tenens to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change in clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change in privileges to the following Allied Health Professional is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

MEETING OF THE BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE, DECEMBER 8, 2004.
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The Buildings and Grounds Committee met on December 8, 2004, and approved the following resolutions:

MEETING OF THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD, FEBRUARY 3, 2005CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONSNEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFSECONDARY APPOINTMENT TO THE CLINICAL STAFFREAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFSTATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFFSECONDARY REAPPOINTMENT TO THE CLINICAL STAFFRESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFFPRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSRENEWAL OF PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSSTATUS CHANGE FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALRESIGNATION OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the secondary appointment to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioner are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change in clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for secondary reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioner are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change in privileges to the following Allied Health Professional is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: February 4, 2005

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session – as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia – only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration in closed session.