Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 5, 2007

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2009

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

November 29, 2007 MEMORANDUM
----------------------------

TO:

The Board of Visitors:

W. Heywood Fralin, Rector

John O. Wynne, Vice Rector

Austin Ligon

Daniel R. Abramson

Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr.

A. Macdonald Caputo

The Hon. Lewis F. Payne

The Hon. Alan A. Diamonstein

Don R. Pippin

Susan Y. Dorsey

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

Thomas F. Farrell, II

Warren M. Thompson

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

Glynn D. Key

Carey J. Mignerey

FROM:

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

SUBJECT:

Correction to the October 4-5, 2007 Minutes

TO: The Board of Visitors: W. Heywood Fralin, Rector John O. Wynne, Vice Rector Austin Ligon Daniel R. Abramson Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr. A. Macdonald Caputo The Hon. Lewis F. Payne The Hon. Alan A. Diamonstein Don R. Pippin Susan Y. Dorsey Gordon F. Rainey, Jr. Thomas F. Farrell, II Warren M. Thompson G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr. E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D. Glynn D. Key Carey J. Mignerey FROM: Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. SUBJECT: Correction to the October 4-5, 2007 Minutes

The Minutes of the Board of Visitors meeting of October 4-5, 2007, should be corrected as follows: on page 7416, add the following resolution adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on October 4th:

APPROVAL OF PROJECT BUDGET MODIFICATION
---------------------------------------

Copies to:

Mr. John T. Casteen, III

Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge

RESOLVED that after further study an increase to the Scott Stadium Waterproofing project of $2,343,000, bringing the total project budget to $4.7 million, is approved.

AGG:lah

Copies to: Mr. John T. Casteen, III Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS OCTOBER 5, 2007
------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Approving the Naming of Bavaro Hall

7402

Establishment of the Spencer P. Bass, M.D., Twenty- First Century Professorship in Family Medicine in the School of Medicine

7403

Establishment of the Jean and Ronald Butcher, M.D., Eminent Scholars Professorship in Neurology in the School of Medicine

7403

Establishment of the Jean and Ronald Butcher, M.D., Eminent Scholars Professorship in Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry in the School of Medicine

7404

Establishment of the Kathleen Miller Strunk Professorship Professorship in Nursing at The University of Virginia's College at Wise

7405

Establishment of the Thurston H. Strunk Professorship in Nursing at The University of Virginia's College at Wise

7405

Establishment of the Napoleon Hill Professorship in Business at The University of Virginia's College at Wise

7406

Approval of the Minutes of the June 8, and July 27-28,2007, Meetings of the Board

7407

Correction to the Minutes of the Board of June 8, 2007

7407

Resolution for Additions to the Agenda

7408

Resolution Accepting the Gift and Grants Report

7409

Demolition of West Garage and East End Substation

7411

Demolition of Faculty Houses at The University of Virginia's College at Wise

7412

PAGE

Approval of a Permanent Easement to Relocate Overhead Electrical Wires for the Valley Road Cul de Sac (Dominion Virginia Power)

7412

Approval of Permanent Easement for a Pedestrian Walkway to Connect Valley Road and Brandon Avenue (City of Charlottesville)

7413

Approval of the Board of Visitors Representatives to the Governing Board of University-Related Foundations

7413

Approval of Reset of Endowment Spending Rate

7415

Approval of Audit Charter

7415

Approval to Expand the Information Technology Engineering Building, Expand the Ivy Translational Research Center, and Construct a New Physical/Life Sciences Facility

7415

Approval of State Operating Budget Requests for the 2008-2010 Biennium for the Academic Division, the Medical Center, and The University of Virginia's College at Wise

7416

Approval of Project Budget and Scope Modification and Intent to Issue Tax Exempt Debt to Expand the Information Technology Engineering Building, Expand the Ivy Translational Research Center, and Construct a New Physical/Life Sciences Facility

7417

Approval of Project Budget Modification and Intent to Issue Tax Exempt Debt: Stadium Waterproofing

7417

Approval of the College at Wise Stadium Debt Plan

7418

Approval of Cash Management Authority

7418

Approval of Property Acquisition and Intent to IssueTax Exempt Debt

7419

Modification of Prior Approval for a Long Term AcuteCare Hospital

7420

PAGE

Approval of the 2008-2014 Six-Year Institutional Plans Pursuant to the Restructured Higher Education Financial And Administrative Operations Act

7423

Resolution Approving Report of the Special Committee on Foundations

7424

Resolution Supporting the University's Plan to Address Recommendations of the Review Panel on Mass Shootings at Virginia Tech

7424

Approval of the Summary of Audit Findings

7425

Grievance Resolution

7425

Batten School Resolution

7425

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

7426

Actions Relating to Chairholders Election of ChairholdersCancellation of the Chairholder Election of Mr. Joseph S. TakahashiChange of Title of ChairholdersCancellation of the Change of Title for Dr. Shepard R. HurwitzSpecial Salary Action of ChairholdersChange in the Salary Action for Mr. Mark W. EdmundsonChange in the Title of the Resignation of Dr. Shepard R. HurwitzRetirement of ChairholdersChange in the Retirement of Mr. William G. ShenkirDeath of Chairholders

7433743574357436743674377437743874387438

Promotions

7438

Change in the Title of the Promotion of Ms. Gwenaelle S.G. Geleoc-Holt

7439

Change in the Title of the Promotion of Mr. Douglas R. Lake

7439

Special Salary Actions

7439

Resignations

7445

Cancellation of the Resignation of Ms. Sondra F. Stallard

7448

Retirements

7448

Appointments

7449

Re-Appointments

7450

Re-Election of Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin as Vice President and Chief Student Affairs Officer

7450

PAGE

Election of Ms. Susan A. Carkeek as Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer

7450

Election of Professors Emeriti

7451

Election of Associate Professor Emeritus

7451

Deaths

7451

The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Elections

7452

Promotions

7452

Special Salary Actions

7453

Resolutions Adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee, October 4, 2007 • Approval of Architect Selection for the ITC Data Center Construction • Approval of Engineer Selection for the Jordan Hall HVAC Replacement• Approval of Project Budget Modification• Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the Klockner Expansion• Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the UVA Baseball Stadium Expansion• Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the ITC Data Center • Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the Printing and Copying Services Addition• Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the "Rugby Administrative Building" Renovations• Approval of Schematic Design for College at Wise Science Building • Approval of Schematic Design for College at Wise New Residence Hall • Approval of Schematic Design for College at Wise New Dining Hall

74577457745774577458745874587458745974597459

Resolutions Adopted by the Medical Center Operating Board, July, 2007, and October 3, 2007 • Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions• Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions

74597478

SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS October 4-5, 2007
------------------------------------------------------------------

After Board Committee meetings which began in the Board Room at 9:00 a.m., on Thursday, October 4, 2007, the full Board assembled in the Dome Room of the Rotunda at 2:00 p.m., that day for a joint meeting, in Open Session, with The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board, who were meeting at the University in retreat. The joint meeting was held also as a meeting of the Board of Visitors Committee on The University of Virginia's College at Wise.

The following Members of the Board of Visitors were present: W. Heywood Fralin (Rector), John O. Wynne (Vice Rector), Daniel R. Abramson, Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, Thomas F. Farrell, II, G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., Austin Ligon, Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr., The Honorable Lewis F. Payne, Don R. Pippin, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Warren M. Thompson, E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., and Carey J. Mignerey.

The following members of the Wise Board were present: Mesdames Cauthen, Gilliam, Rigg, Rogers, Wall, and Williams; and Messrs. Allen, Compton, Ern, Gott, Green, Jessee, McGlothlin, Pippin, J.F. Smiddy, Sturgill, Thomas, and Viers. David Prior, Chancellor of the College at Wise, and Joseph C. Smiddy, Chancellor Emeritus, also were present.

Joint Meeting with The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board was welcomed by Mr. Gott, the Chairman of the Wise Board. The Rector made brief remarks, as did President Casteen, and Mr. Smiddy —; the Chancellor Emeritus of Wise.

Mr. Prior, the Chancellor, made the first presentation of several by members of the College administration. He was followed by Mr. Rusty Necessary, Vice Chancellor for Enrollment Management, who spoke about the College's AIM High Program; Mr. Gary Juhan, the Vice Chancellor for Administration, who addressed "Athletic and Recreation Facilities and the Community;" Mr. Gil Blackburn, the Provost and Senior Vice Chancellor, who talked about the College's Software Engineering Program and the Adult MIS program in Abingdon; and Mr. Keith Fowlkes, Vice Chancellor for Information Technology and Chief Information Officer, who spoke to "Broadband and Wireless Networks Community Collaborative." The general theme of their collective remarks was the College's outreach to Southwest Virginia, but they also gave the Board of Visitors a progress report on a number of initiatives at the College.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 3:55 p.m.

Professorships and Namings Bavaro HallAPPROVING THE NAMING OF BAVARO HALLESTABLISHMENT OF THE SPENCER P. BASS, M.D., TWENTY- FIRST CENTURY PROFESSORSHIP IN FAMILY MEDICINE IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JEAN AND RONALD BUTCHER, M.D., EMINENT SCHOLARS PROFESSORSHIP IN NEUROLOGY IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JEAN AND RONALD BUTCHER, M.D., EMINENT SCHOLARS PROFESSORSHIP IN BEHAVIORAL MEDICINE AND PSYCHIATRY IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KATHLEEN MILLER STRUNK PROFESSORSHIP IN NURSING AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE THURSTON H. STRUNK PROFESSORSHIP IN NURSING AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NAPOLEON HILL PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors met, as the full Board, at 4:00 p.m., in the Dome Room of the Rotunda to establish six professorships, name a building, and hear a report from the President on two other namings.

The Board voted to name the new building at the Curry School of Education Bavaro Hall after the late Anthony Bavaro, in accordance with the wishes of the donor, Daniel M. Meyers.

The resolution is as follows:

WHEREAS, Daniel M. Meyers of Massachusetts, Chair of the Curry School of Education Foundation, has made a magnificent gift to the Curry School, the largest in the School's history and the second largest to an American school of education; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Meyers' gift is an expression of his strong belief in the vital importance of higher education; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Meyers holds as a role model the late Anthony D. Bavaro, a dedicated and unselfish teacher who taught in inner city schools in the Boston area for forty years, and has suggested that the Curry School could find no better role model; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Meyers has requested that the new Curry School building, to be constructed adjacent to Ruffner Hall with his gift, be named in honor of Mr. Bavaro; and

WHEREAS, the President and the University Committee on Names have concurred in Mr. Meyers' request;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors names the new Curry School building Bavaro Hall, thanks Mr. Meyers for his generous gift, and honors the memory of Mr. Anthony Bavaro for his dedication to education and for the example he set as a master teacher.

The Board then voted to establish three professorships in the School of Medicine, as follows:

WHEREAS, Spencer P. Bass of Tarboro, North Carolina, took the M.D. from the University in 1906 and returned to Tarboro where he practiced family medicine for the rest of his life; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Bass was an outstanding student at the University, having been one of the early members of the Raven Society and President of his graduating medical class; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Bass's son, Spencer P. Bass, Jr., took the M.D. from the University in 1949; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Spencer P. Bass, Jr. made an extremely generous bequest to the School of Medicine, part of it to be used to establish a chair in memory of his father;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Spencer P. Bass, M.D., Twenty-First Century Professorship in Family Medicine, to be held in the Department of Family Medicine at the School of Medicine, and remembers with gratitude the contributions of the Doctors Bass, father and son, to the life of the University.

WHEREAS, Ronald H.G. Butcher, M.D., as a faculty fellow trained under the late Dr. T.R. Johns of the School of Medicine; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Jean Robertson Butcher took an M.A. in Education while her husband was at the School of Medicine; and

WHEREAS, Dr. and Mrs. Butcher subsequently lived in Richmond for many years where Dr. Butcher practiced psychiatry and was a member of the faculty of the Medical College of Virginia and Mrs. Butcher taught in the Hopewell public schools; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Butcher died in 1989; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Butcher died in 2007, leaving generous bequests to the School of Medicine for the establishment of two professorships;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Jean and Ronald Butcher, M.D., Eminent Scholars Professorship in Neurology, to be held in the Department of Neurology at the School of Medicine, and pays tribute to the memory of Mrs. Butcher and her generosity and to Dr. Butcher's contributions to his profession.

WHEREAS, Ronald H.G. Butcher, M.D., as a faculty fellow trained under the late Dr. T.R. Johns of the School of Medicine; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Jean Robertson Butcher took an M.A. in Education while her husband was at the School of Medicine; and

WHEREAS, Dr. and Mrs. Butcher subsequently lived in Richmond for many years where Dr. Butcher practiced psychiatry and was a member of the faculty of the Medical College of Virginia and Mrs. Butcher taught in the Hopewell public schools; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Butcher died in 1989; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Butcher died in 2007, leaving generous bequests to the School of Medicine for the establishment of two professorships;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Jean and Ronald Butcher, M.D., Eminent Scholars Professorship in Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, to be held in the Department of Psychiatric Medicine at the School of Medicine, and pays tribute to the memory of Mrs. Butcher and her generosity and to Dr. Butcher's contributions to his profession.

The Board next voted to establish three professorships at The University of Virginia's College at Wise:

WHEREAS, Kathleen Miller Strunk had a longtime interest in the education of young people in Southwest Virginia and Kentucky; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Strunk died in 2004, leaving a generous bequest to The University of Virginia's College at Wise for scholarships for students from Southwest Virginia in Nursing and for two professorships in Nursing;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Kathleen Miller Strunk Professorship in Nursing, to be held at The University of Virginia's College at Wise, and pays tribute to the memory of Mrs. Strunk and her commitment to higher education and to the people of Southwest Virginia.

WHEREAS,Thurston H. Strunk of Abingdon and his wife, Kathleen Miller Strunk, had a deep and abiding interest in the welfare of Southwest Virginia and its people, and particularly in higher education in the area; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Strunk died in 1980 and Mrs. Strunk in 2004; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Strunk made a very generous bequest to The University of Virginia's College at Wise for student scholarships in Nursing and for two professorships in Nursing;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Thurston H. Strunk Professorship in Nursing, to be held at The University of Virginia's College at Wise, pays tribute to the support Mr. and Mrs. Strunk gave to Southwest Virginia in so many ways, and to the generosity of Mrs. Strunk whose bequest has made possible the establishment of this chair.

WHEREAS,the late Napoleon Hill of Wise County was a national figure —; an author and leader and advisor of presidents, but withal a citizen of his native county; and

WHEREAS, before his death in 1970, Mr. Hill established the Napoleon Hill Foundation, an organization that has had a particularly close relationship with The University of Virginia's College at Wise; and

WHEREAS,in addition to its numerous benefactions to the College, the Foundation in 2002 established an endowment to be used for a professorship; and

WHEREAS,funds in the endowment are now sufficient to support the proposed professorship;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Napoleon Hill Professorship in Business, to be held at The University of Virginia's College at Wise, and expresses its gratitude to the Napoleon Hill Foundation for this latest of its many benefactions to the College.

Report on Namings Rise Family Study Schwartz Map Room
-----------------------------------------------------

The President reported to the Board on two namings, neither of which required Board action.

P. Carter Rise (Commerce '82) and his wife, Louise L. Rise (College '82) made a gift to the rebuilding of Rouss Hall as the new home of the McIntire School of Commerce. The University Committee on Names and the President agreed to name a study area on the first floor of Rouss Hall the P. Carter Rise Family Study in honor of Mr. and Mrs. Rise.

Seymour I. Schwartz, M.D., has given maps to the Albert and Shirley Small Special Collections Library and will leave his entire collection of maps as a bequest. The President and the University Committee on Names, at the request of the Library, have agreed to the naming of the Schwartz Map Room in the Small Special Collections Library.

The Board recessed at 4:20 p.m.

Meeting of the Executive Committee
----------------------------------

The Executive Committee convened in the Lower East Oval Room at 4:45 p.m., for a short meeting, which is covered in separate Minutes for that Committee. The Committee adjourned at 5:00 p.m.

Friday, October 5th
-------------------

The Board resumed its meetings, by Committee, at 8:30 a.m., on Friday, October 5, 2007, in the Board Room. The Minutes of those meetings are published by Committee.

Preliminary Meeting of the Board
--------------------------------

The Board convened, in Open Session, in the Board Room of the Rotunda at 1:25 p.m., on Friday, October 5, 2007, for its formal Preliminary Session as the full Board; W. Heywood Fralin, Rector, presided. John O. Wynne (Vice Rector), Daniel R. Abramson, The Hon. Alan A. Diamonstein, Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, Thomas F. Farrell, II, G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., Ms. Glynn D. Key, Austin Ligon, Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr., The Hon. Lewis F. Payne, Don R. Pippin, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., R. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., and Carey J. Mignerey were present.

The Rector asked Mr. Mastracco to lead the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.

Approval of the Minutes of the June 8, and July 27-28, 2007, Meetings of the Board Correction to the Minutes of the Board Meeting of June 8, 2007
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Minutes of the Board Retreat, July 27-28th, 2007, were approved without correction. The Minutes of the June 8th meeting, however, were approved after being corrected as follows:

The resolution on page 7333 of the Minute Book, the resolution approving the Pratt Fund Distribution for 2007-2008, should be corrected (on line 6) to read $7,795,098.

Addenda to the Published Agenda
-------------------------------

On motion the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the addition of items to the Agenda for consideration by the Board.

ACC Certification
-----------------

Noting the requirement by the ACC that an annual statement be read to the Board by the Rector, certifying that the direction of the University's athletic programs is in the hands of the President, the Rector read and signed the statement, which will be forwarded to the ACC.

President's Report Gifts and Grants Report
------------------------------------------

The Rector asked the President to give his customary report.

The Commission on the Future of the University is continuing its work, begun last spring. The committees of the Commission, with suggestions from Dr. Garson and from the Faculty Senate, are revising their reports and plan to complete them in November. The final report will come to the Board of Visitors at the February meeting.

The President said the results of the Commission's work will have an impact on the University for many years to come: the University will become stronger in the sciences; become a more global university; and the already strong student experience will be strengthened.

Noting that Mr. Sandridge had given a report earlier on the new security measures being undertaken as a result of the massacre at Virginia Tech in the spring, the President summarized the University's efforts as being a systematic and rational approach. Important steps have been taken already, but it will be a work-in-progress in the months ahead.

The Virginia Tech Review Panel's report is being compared with the University's initiatives, and identified gaps in the University's plan are being addressed. The President said the Board will be kept abreast of these efforts.

The President then spoke briefly about the budget reductions mandated by the Commonwealth. The Governor, he said, has reduced the University's planning target number of 7% to 6.25% for the actual amount of the cut. With other cuts, the University's actual and final cut will be $9,557,710.

The Governor is still open to considering a bond issue.

The President said work is underway to honor the workers, enslaved and free, who built the original buildings of the University. Extensive research is necessary to find the names and roles of the workers, and stipends will be awarded to students, graduate and undergraduate, to conduct supervised investigations of the original construction work at the University.

The President continued with his customary report on gifts and grants received.

Philanthropic giving to the University and its related foundations for the last fiscal year, which ended June 30th, was $302.1million, a record and an increase of $72million over the previous fiscal year.

In the first month of the current fiscal year —; that is July 1-August 31, the figure for philanthropic giving was $36million, an increase of $12.6million over the same month last year.

Among the significant gifts received since the June meeting of the Board are $8,650,000 from the estate of Spencer P. Bass, Jr., M.D.; the Amvest Corporation headquarters building, valued at $6,700,000; a $5,000,000 pledge payment from the Batten Foundation to the Frank Batten Fund for the School of Leadership and Public Policy; a $5,000,000 gift to the McIntire School for the Building Campaign Fund; an anonymous pledge of $1,000,000 to the Miller Center Foundation for the National Discussion and Debate Series; the Crozer Family Foundation pledge of $1,000,000 to the College Foundation; a $1,000,000 pledge from Mr. Thomas V. Inglesby to the Jefferson Scholars Foundation; and $1,000,000 pledged to the College Foundation by Mr. Richard D. Fairbank.

On motion, the Board voted to approve the Gifts and Grants Report.

The Board concluded its Preliminary Session at 1:40 p.m., and after adopting the following motions, went into Executive Session:

Executive Session
-----------------

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and/or approving personnel actions involving the appointment, reappointment, nomination, evaluation, performance, compensation, and resignation of specific University officers and employees as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors convene in Closed Session to consult with General Counsel on his privileged legal report to the Board concerning pending and anticipated litigation affecting the University; and to evaluate an employee's grievance appeal, as permitted by Section 2.2-3711 (A)(1)and (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors convene in Closed Session to discuss the acquisition of specific real property, where if made public initially, the University's financial interest and bargaining position would be adversely affected, as permitted by Section 2.2-3711 (A)(3) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Closed Session to review, and discuss with legal counsel as needed, proprietary business-related information of the Medical Center: specifically strategic plans to develop and invest in a joint venture for the operation of an acute care medical facility, where disclosure at this time would adversely affect the competitive position of the Medical Center, as provided for in Sections 2.2-3711 (A) (3), (6), (7,) and (22) of the Code of Virginia.

That, in connection with the University's Capital Campaign and beyond, the Special Committee on Foundations convene in Closed Session to discuss, and further consult with General Counsel as needed, the Board's oversight of University-related foundations, as well as coordination of fund-raising activity and gift development costs including gift endowment management, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) ( 4), (6), (7) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Closed Session with General Counsel to discuss and review the adequacy of the University's emergency/security preparations and planning to protect, deter and respond to possible future threats to public safety at the University, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711(A) (7) and (19) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Closed Session to review and discuss the performance of specific University and Medical Center departments. The Board's oversight review will involve evaluating the performance of specific University managers and personnel and, in the case of the Medical Center, proprietary business-related information relating to billing documentation and posting of charges and use of donated equipment, where disclosure at this time would adversely affect the competitive position of the Medical Center. This is provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1), (7) and (22) of the Code of Virginia.

At 3:25 p.m., after adopting the following resolution certifying that its discussions in Executive Session had been conducted in accordance with the exemptions provided by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, the Board resumed its meeting in Open Session:

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

Final Meeting DEMOLITION OF WEST GARAGE AND EAST END SUBSTATION (approved by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on October 4, 2007) DEMOLITION OF FACULTY HOUSES AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE (approved by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on October 4, 2007) APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT TO RELOCATE OVERHEAD ELECTRICAL WIRES FOR THE VALLEY ROAD CUL DE SAC (DOMINION VIRGINIA POWER) (approved by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on October 4, 2007) APPROVAL OF PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR A PEDESTRIAN WALKWAY TO CONNECT VALLEY ROAD AND BRANDON AVENUE (CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE) (approved by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on October 4, 2007) APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS REPRESENTATIVES TO THE GOVERNING BOARDS OF UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONS (approved by the External Affairs Committee on October 5, 2007) APPROVAL OF RESET OF ENDOWMENT SPENDING RATE (approved by the Finance Committee on October 4, 2007) APPROVAL OF THE AUDIT CHARTER (approved by the Audit and Compliance Committee on October 4, 2007) APPROVAL TO EXPAND THE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ENGINEERING BUILDING, EXPAND THE IVY TRANSLATIONAL RESEARCH CENTER, AND CONSTRUCT A NEW PHYSICAL/LIFE SCIENCES FACILITY (approved by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on October 4, 2007) APPROVAL OF STATE OPERATING BUDGET REQUESTS FOR THE 2008-2010 BIENNIUM FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION, THE MEDICAL CENTER, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE (approved by the Finance Committee on October 4, 2007) APPROVAL OF PROJECT BUDGET AND SCOPE MODIFICATION AND INTENT TO ISSUE TAX EXEMPT DEBT TO EXPAND THE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ENGINEERING BUILDING, EXPAND THE IVY TRANSLATIONAL RESEARCH CENTER, AND CONSTRUCT A NEW PHYSICAL/LIFE SCIENCES FACILITY (approved by the Finance Committee on October 4, 2007) APPROVAL OF PROJECT BUDGET MODIFICATION AND INTENT TO ISSUE TAX EXEMPT DEBT: STADIUM WATERPROOFING (approved by the Finance Committee on October 4, 2007) APPROVAL OF THE COLLEGE AT WISE STADIUM DEBT PLAN (approved by the Finance Committee on October 4, 2007) APPROVAL OF CASH MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY (approved by the Finance Committee on October 4, 2007) APPROVAL OF PROPERTY ACQUISITION AND INTENT TO ISSUE TAX EXEMPT DEBT (approved by the Finance Committee on October 4, 2007)MODIFICATION OF PRIOR APPROVAL FOR A LONG TERM ACUTE CARE HOSPITAL
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Foundation

Board of Visitors Representative

Term Ending

Alumni Association of the University of Virginia

Glynn D. Key

05/30/08

Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund

J. Davis Hamlin

12/31/08

The College Foundation of the University of Virginia

Timothy B. Robertson

12/31/08

The University of Virginia's College at Wise Alumni Association and Wise Foundation

Don R. Pippin

06/30/11

Curry School of Education

Lewis F. Payne

06/30/11\*

Darden School Foundation

Thomas F. Farrell, II

12/31/09

Foundation of the State Arboretum at Blandy Experimental Farm

Megan Raymond

12/31/10\*

Healthcare Partners, Inc.

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

06/30/10

University of Virginia Health Services Foundation

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

12/31/08

Foundation

Board of Visitors Representative

Term Ending

Jefferson Institute for Lifelong Learning (JILL)

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

12/31/09\*

Jefferson Scholars Foundation

Thomas F. Farrell, II

06/30/11\*

Law School Alumni Association and Law School Foundation, University of Virginia

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

12/31/08

McIntire School of Commerce Foundation

Thomas F. Farrell, II

06/30/11\*

Medical School Alumni Association and Medical School Foundation, University of Virginia

Sam D. Graham, Jr., M.D.

05/31/09

Miller Center Foundation

W. Heywood Fralin

06/30/09 \*

Patent Foundation, University of Virginia

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

06/30/11\*

Rare Book School

Karin Wittenborg

12/31/09

School of Architecture Foundation

Susan Y. Dorsey

06/30/11

University of Virginia Foundation and Subsidiaries

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

06/30/11\*

University of Virginia Health Foundation

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

06/30/11

University of Virginia Investment Management Corporation

John O. Wynne

06/30/08

Virginia Engineering Foundation

Kenneth M. Humphries

12/31/09

Virginia Athletic Foundation

Daniel R. Abramson\*\*

12/31/11\*

Virginia Tax Foundation, Inc.

Joseph E. Gibson

12/31/08

The Board began its customary Final Meeting, in Open Session, at 3:40 p.m.

The following resolutions were adopted:

WHEREAS,The West Garage (Building Number 207-1144), and the East End Substation (Building Number 207-7139) must be demolished to facilitate the construction of the Emily Couric Clinical Cancer Center; and

WHEREAS,the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources, agencies of the Commonwealth, have approved the removal of these structures;

RESOLVED, the removal of structures 207-1144 and 207-7139 is approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of these buildings.

WHEREAS,two faculty houses (246-8373 and 246-8374) at The University of Virginia's College at Wise must be demolished to facilitate the construction of a new student residence hall; and

WHEREAS,the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources of the Commonwealth have approved the removal of these structures;

RESOLVED, the removal of structures 246-8373 and 246-8374 is approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned buildings.

RESOLVED, the Board approves the granting of a permanent easement to Dominion Virginia Power to relocate overhead lines, poles, and equipment to facilitate the construction of the Valley Road cul de sac, in the vicinity of Valley Road, on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves the granting of a permanent easement to the City of Charlottesville for a permanent pedestrian walkway to connect Valley Road and Brandon Avenue, on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia; and

RESOLVED, that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easements.

RESOLVED that the following persons are ratified or confirmed as representatives of the Board of Visitors to the governing boards of the following University-Related Foundations:

WHEREAS,the University's current endowment spending policy, approved by the Board of Visitors in March 2005, calls for a percentage increase in the annual distribution from the endowment, unless such increase causes the distribution to fall outside a range defined as 3.5 percent on the low end and 5.5 percent on the high end of the market value of the Pooled Endowment Fund; and

WHEREAS,the policy specifies that if the distribution falls outside of this range, the Finance Committee may recommend either raising or lowering the rate of increase; and

WHEREAS,the distribution for fiscal year 2007-2008 as a percentage of market value at June 30, 2007, is 3.5 percent;

RESOLVED that for fiscal year 2007-2008, the endowment spending rate for all shares will be adjusted to 4.5 percent of the market value at June 30, 2007; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the deans shall work jointly with the Executive Vice President and Provost to determine and carry out plans for expending these funds in ways that meet strategic school and institutional priorities and that are consistent with donor restrictions.

RESOLVED that the Audit Charter is approved as recommended by the Audit and Compliance Committee.

WHEREAS,the University of Virginia desires to increase available research and laboratory space to meet long-term objectives to increase research in medicine, engineering, and the sciences; and

WHEREAS,the University has developed a comprehensive science initiative to increase previously planned construction at the Information Technology Engineering Building to approximately 100,000 gross square feet and at the Ivy Translational Research Center to approximately 100,000 gross square feet and to construct a new approximately 100,000 gross square foot physical/life sciences facility; and

WHEREAS,the University intends to issue $19.6 million in debt for the expansion of the Information Technology Engineering Building project; $58.3 million in debt for the expansion of the Ivy Translational Research Center; and $88.9 million in debt for the construction of the physical/life sciences facility;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves the addition of the projects to the University's capital program.

WHEREAS,the instructions for submitting the 2008-2010 budget requests to the Governor have not yet been received; and

WHEREAS,the proposed 2008-2010 biennial budget requests have been reviewed carefully; and

WHEREAS,the proposed biennial budget requests represent the highest priority initiatives and are aligned with the mission of the institution;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia approves the 2008-2010 biennial budget requests accompanying this resolution and outlined as shown in Attachment A; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors understands that to the extent these initiatives are not included in the Governor's 2008-2010 biennial budget, the Academic Division, the Medical Center, and The University of Virginia's College at Wise may want to pursue similar requests to the Legislature; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to transmit to the General Assembly any request not funded by the Governor as long as there are no material differences from the items already endorsed by the Board of Visitors.

WHEREAS,the University of Virginia desires to increase available research and laboratory space to meet long-term objectives to increase research in medicine, engineering, and the sciences; and

WHEREAS,the University has developed a comprehensive science initiative to increase previously planned construction at the Information Technology Engineering Building to approximately 100,000 gross square feet and at the Ivy Translational Research Center to approximately 110,000 gross square feet and to construct a new approximately 100,000 gross square foot physical/life sciences facility; and

WHEREAS,the precise source of debt repayment is being developed and will be identified and confirmed with the Board of Visitors;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves in concept the issuance of tax exempt debt in the amounts of $19.6 million for the expansion of the Information Technology Engineering Building; $58.3 million for the expansion of the Ivy Translational Research Center; and $88.9 million for the construction of the physical/life sciences facility.

RESOLVED, as a result of further study, the Scott Stadium Waterproofing project budget, which has increased by $2.3 million for a total of $4.7 million, is approved.

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors approves the University's intent to issue tax-exempt debt, of up to $4.7 million to be repaid over a period of not longer than five years from the distribution on the Scott Stadium Quasi-Endowment, for the purpose of funding the Scott Stadium Waterproofing project.

WHEREAS,in 1998, the University granted the College at Wise a four-year, $3 million loan to provide temporary financing in anticipation of gift receipts for the construction of a new football stadium; and

WHEREAS,in April 2001 the Board of Visitors approved an amendment to this loan, extending its due date to December 2009; and

WHEREAS,the College has determined that available sources of funds will be insufficient to repay the remaining outstanding balance of $1.56 million on the loan by its December 2009 due date and requests the University to restructure this loan to provide a solution that better matches the College's ability to repay and avoids placing the burden of this debt on students through tuition and fee increases; and

WHEREAS,the University and the College have drafted a solution calling for an immediate partial repayment of the outstanding loan in the amount of $949,000 and the creation of a new 15-year, amortizing loan for the approximately $611,000 remaining balance with annual debt service payments roughly equal to annual payments being made under the existing loan;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves a $949,000 partial repayment of the Wise Stadium loan and the creation of a new 15-year, amortizing loan for the remaining balance of approximately $611,000.

WHEREAS,the 2006 Restructuring Management Agreement grants the University the authority to invest all non-general fund cash if the performance metrics negotiated in the Agreement are met; and

WHEREAS,the 2007 investment legislation (23-76.1) allows the investment of local funds and all non-general fund reserves and balances in a variety of financial securities in addition to the instruments allowed by the Investment of Public Funds Act; and

WHEREAS,the University seeks to manage and invest cash in a prudent manner subject to the law, in order to obtain the best returns concomitant with acceptable risks that ensure liquidity requirements are met;

RESOLVED that the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to invest the cash of and held by the University in the University of Virginia Investment Management Company (UVIMCO) long-term pool or in other investment vehicles as permitted by law, the cash to include but not be limited to working capital, operating reserves, employee health plan reserves, other academic division operating and capital reserves, and Medical Center working capital, operating and capital reserves including depreciation reserves;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is granted the authority to distribute returns to major entities and to central reserves as appropriate.

WHEREAS,the University of Virginia finds it to be in its best interest to purchase 2400 Old Ivy Road and for this property to be occupied by the University of Virginia and related entities; and

WHEREAS,the University intends to issue tax exempt debt to fund the $5,916,500 acquisition cost of the building;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the acquisition of 2400 Old Ivy Road; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer be authorized to approve and execute contracts and other documents, and to take such other actions as are necessary and appropriate to consummate this property acquisition.

WHEREAS,the Medical Center Operating Board at its May 11, 2006, and May 7, 2007 meetings and the Board of Visitors at its June 9, 2006, and June 7, 2007 meetings approved resolutions authorizing the University, on behalf of the University of Virginia Medical Center, to proceed with the development of a long term acute care hospital to be located on Ivy Road in Albemarle County. The resolution set a cap of $15 million on expenditures and authorized the creation of a joint venture for the long term acute care hospital; and

WHEREAS,the Medical Center desires to maximize the property site on which the long term acute care hospital will be located, and to construct a building that will include the long term acute care hospital as well as room for future growth and other related services; and

WHEREAS,the long term acute care hospital building is planned to be constructed partly on what is known as the Kirtley Property, which is on a long-term lease to the University, and partly on land adjacent to the Kirtley Property owned by the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation; and

WHEREAS,the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation has agreed to build the long term acute care hospital building on behalf of the Medical Center and lease it to the Medical Center, and a ground lease from the University to the Health Services Foundation for the Kirtley Property, and a lease from the Health Services Foundation to the Medical Center for the building thus are required; and

WHEREAS,the Medical Center formed a limited liability company to own the long term acute care hospital, a company that is no longer required;

RESOLVED, the May 11, 2006, and May 7, 2007 Medical Center Operating Board resolutions and the June 9, 2006, and June 7, 2007 Board of Visitors resolutions are modified to permit the University, on behalf of its Medical Center, to proceed with the creation and development of a building of approximately 67,000 square feet on Ivy Road in Albemarle County; the building will include a long term acute care hospital and room for future growth and other related services, with a cap of $24 million on expenditures; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, pursuant to Virginia Code Section 13.1-1070, the Board of Visitors approves the plan of merger, shown as Exhibit A hereto, of the University of Virginia/HealthSouth II, LLC into the University of Virginia; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center is authorized to negotiate this long term acute care hospital project, including the ground leasing and acquisition of real estate, the development and construction of the building to house the long term acute care hospital and the leasing of that building to the Medical Center, and to take appropriate steps to effect the merger; all as deemed necessary or appropriate by the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer, and to recommend such transaction to the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University for approval, with the concurrence of the Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board and the Chair of the Finance Committee; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University is authorized to execute contracts and other documents, and to take such other actions as he deems necessary, for the creation and development of a long term acute care hospital and the building in which it will be located and to consummate the merger of the University of Virginia/Health South II, LLC into the University of Virginia.

EXHIBIT A PLAN OF MERGER
------------------------

University of Virginia/HealthSouth II, LLC, is a Virginia limited liability company whose sole member is The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, which has determined that it is advisable that University of Virginia/HealthSouth II, LLC be merged with and into The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a non-stock, public corporation and agency of the Commonwealth of Virginia existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

The Executive Committee of the Board was polled by telephone on September 28th, and asked to approve the 2008-2014 Six-Year Institutional Plan. By unanimous consent, the Committee adopted the following resolution:

APPROVAL OF THE 2008-2014 SIX-YEAR INSTITUTIONAL PLANS PURSUANT TO THE RESTRUCTURED HIGHER EDUCATION FINANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE OPERATIONS ACT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act of 2005 requires the governing boards of the public institutions of higher education to approve, and by October 1 of each odd-numbered year, submit a six-year plan to the Governor, the State Council and the Chairs of the House Committee on Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Finance; and

WHEREAS, the next scheduled meeting of the full Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia falls after the October 1st, 2007, deadline;

RESOLVED, the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, acting on behalf of the full Board, approves the six-year plans of the University's Academic Division, the Medical Center, and The University of Virginia's College at Wise; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the President of the University is authorized to transmit the six-year plans to the Governor, the State Council and the Chairs of the House Committee on Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Finance.

The following resolution thus seconds the decision of the Executive Committee:

WHEREAS, the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors, in a telephonic poll conducted on September 28, 2007, adopted a resolution approving the University's 2008-2014 Six-Year Institutional Plan; and

WHEREAS, no further action by the Board is necessary, the Executive Committee being empowered by the Manual of the Board of Visitors to act on behalf of the full Board;

RESOLVED, nonetheless, the full Board wishes, as a matter of record, to second the action of the Executive Committee in approving the University's 2008-2014 Six-Year Institutional Plan.

RESOLUTION APPROVING REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON FOUNDATIONS
-------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED, that the Final Report of the Special Committee on Foundations dated September 14, 2007, shown as Attachment B, is approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, that the Board instructs the University to implement the recommendations contained in the Final Report.

RESOLUTION SUPPORTING THE UNIVERSITY'S PLAN TO ADDRESS RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE REVIEW PANEL ON MASS SHOOTINGS AT VIRGINIA TECH
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, on April 16, 2007, a student at Virginia Tech took the lives of 32 fellow students and faculty; and

WHEREAS, following the mass shootings the Governor of Virginia formed the Virginia Tech Review Panel to undertake a comprehensive review of the April 16 incidents and the events that led up to it and followed it; and

WHEREAS, the Virginia Tech Review Panel issued a comprehensive written report in August 2007, which includes a number of recommendations to Virginia Tech, other colleges and universities, the state mental health system, the General Assembly, the federal Congress, and other organizations; and

WHEREAS, immediately following the mass shootings the University of Virginia began a review of its emergency preparedness policies and procedures, and protocols for identifying and evaluating at-risk students and employees; and

WHEREAS, many of the same issues identified in the report of the Virginia Tech Review Panel were identified by University of Virginia officials in their review; and

WHEREAS, the University has made substantial progress in addressing the issues and recommendations: for example, creating an Office of Emergency Preparedness and hiring a Director of Emergency Preparedness; launching a text message and e-mail alert system; revising the University's emergency plan; clarifying police protocols for handling violent incidents; and expanding training of faculty and staff on identifying at-risk students and employees;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors supports the University's efforts on emergency preparedness and directs that there be continuing review and assessment of University policies, procedures, protocols, and practices;

RESOLVED FURTHER, that the President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer shall report to the Board on University safety and security matters until the identified initiatives have been fully addressed.

APPROVAL OF THE SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-----------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period April 1, 2007, through July 31, 2007, as presented by the Chief Audit Executive, is approved as recommended by the Audit and Compliance Committee.

GRIEVANCE RESOLUTION
--------------------

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors declines to hear and consider an appeal in the grievance case of a member of the University faculty in the matter of reappointment to an administrative position.

BATTEN SCHOOL RESOLUTION
------------------------

WHEREAS, Mr. Frank Batten of Virginia Beach made a magnificent gift to the University of Virginia in the spring of 2007, to be used for the establishment of a school of leadership and public policy; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors on April 12, 2007, approved the establishment of the Frank Batten School of Leadership and Public Policy and referred it to the Faculty Senate;

RESOLVED, it is the intent of the Board that the Batten School be located on the Central Grounds of the University; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Board concurs with the President's plans to locate the School at the present Garret Hall.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONS
----------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS Election of Chairholders Cancellation of the Chairholder Election of Mr. Joseph S. Takahashi Change of Title of Chairholders Cancellation of the Change of Title for Dr. Shepard R. Hurwitz Special Salary Action of Chairholders Change in the Salary Action for Mr. Mark W. Edmundson Change in the Title of the Resignation of Dr. Shepard R. Hurwitz Retirement of Chairholders Change in the Retirement of Mr. William G. Shenkir Death of Chairholders
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the chairholder election of Mr. Joseph S. Takahashi as William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Biology and Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 2008, at an academic year salary of $300,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated April 13, 2007, be cancelled. Due to extenuating circumstances, Mr. Takahashi will not be coming to the University of Virginia.

RESOLVED that the change of title for Dr. Shepard R. Hurwitz from S. Ward Casscells Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery to Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, effective July 1, 2007, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors, dated June 8, 2007, be cancelled. Dr. Hurwitz continued as S. Ward Casscells Professor until his resignation on August 31, 2007.

RESOLVED that the special salary action for Mr. Mark W. Edmundson, University Professor and Professor of English, effective August 25, 2007, at an academic year salary of $103,700, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated April 13, 2007, be changed to read as follows:

The President announced that the title of the resignation of Dr. Shepard R. Hurwitz, Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, effective August 31, 2007, to accept another position, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors, dated June 8, 2007, be changed to read as follows:

The President announced that the retirement of Mr. William G. Shenkir, William Stamps Farish Professor of Free Enterprise, effective January 9, 2007, as shown in the chairholder retirement section of the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated April 13, 2007, be changed to read as follows:

PROMOTIONS
----------

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted:

CHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE PROMOTION OF MS. GWENAELLE S.G. GELEOC-HOLT
----------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the promotion of Ms. Gwenaelle S. G. Geleoc-Holt from Assistant Professor of Neuroscience and Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery to Associate Professor of Neuroscience and Associate Professor of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 2007, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors, dated June 8, 2007, be changed to read as follows:

CHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE PROMOTION OF MR. DOUGLAS E. LAKE
-----------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the title of the promotion of Mr. Douglas E. Lake from Assistant Professor of Medicine to Associate Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 2007, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated June 8, 2007, be changed to read as follows:

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced:

CANCELLATION OF THE RESIGNATION OF MS. SONDRA F. STALLARD
---------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the resignation of Ms. Sondra F. Stallard, Professor, General Faculty, effective August 30, 2007, to accept another position, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors, dated June 8, 2007, be cancelled. Ms. Stallard's retirement is effective August 30, 2007, and is included in the retirement section herewith.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced:

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced:

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced:

RE-ELECTION OF MS. PATRICIA M. LAMPKIN AS VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF STUDENT AFFAIRS OFFICER
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin is re-elected as Vice President and Chief Student Affairs Officer, for five years, effective October 25, 2007.

ELECTION OF MS. SUSAN A. CARKEEK AS VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF HUMAN RESOURCES OFFICER
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Ms. Susan A. Carkeek is elected as Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, for five years, effective August 1, 2007.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

ELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUS
----------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Associate Professor Emeritus:

DEATHS
------

The following deaths were announced:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE ELECTIONSPROMOTIONS SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 3:45 p.m.

Special Committee on Planning
-----------------------------

Meeting, in Open Session, as the Special Committee on Planning at 3:50 p.m., in the Board Room of the Rotunda, the Board continued its discussion, begun at the Board Retreat in July, on performance measures.

The meeting was recessed at 4:20 p.m.

Discussion with Three Leaders in Higher Education
-------------------------------------------------

The Board, again meeting as the Special Committee on Planning, resumed its meeting in the Dome Room of the Rotunda at 4:35 p.m., Friday, October 5th. Ms. Dorsey and Messrs. Wynne, Payne, Ligon, Rainey, Pippin, and Mignerey were present.

The President had suggested to the Rector that the Board might want to meet with three leaders in higher education to hear comments on how other institutions are dealing with issues of planning, funding, direction, and so on. With the Rector's agreement, he invited Mr. John C. Vaughn, Executive Vice President of the Associations of American Universities; Mr. James Moeser, Chancellor of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill; and Mr. Hunter Rawlings, III, President Emeritus of Cornell University and a former President of the University of Iowa —; as well as University Professor of Classics at the University of Virginia. The three leaders each made presentations and then led a lively and productive discussion with Members of the Board and members of the faculty who were in attendance.

The meeting was adjourned at 6:15 p.m.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING RESOLUTIONS NOT REQUIRING ACTION BY THE FULL BOARD BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE, OCTOBER 4, 2007 APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE ITC DATA CENTER CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL OF ENGINEER SELECTION FOR THE JORDAN HALL HVAC REPLACEMENTAPPROVAL OF PROJECT BUDGET MODIFICATION APPROVAL OF CONCEPT, SITE, AND DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE KLOCKNER EXPANSION APPROVAL OF CONCEPT, SITE, AND DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE UVA BASEBALL STADIUM EXPANSION APPROVAL OF CONCEPT, SITE, AND DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE ITC DATA CENTER APPROVAL OF CONCEPT, SITE, AND DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE PRINTING AND COPYING SERVICES ADDITION APPROVAL OF CONCEPT, SITE, AND DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE "RUGBY ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING"RENOVATION APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR COLLEGE AT WISE SCIENCE BUILDING APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR COLLEGE AT WISE NEW RESIDENCE HALL APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR COLLEGE AT WISE NEW DINING HALL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: October 4-5, 2007

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session —; as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia —; only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration were discussed in closed session.

The following resolutions were adopted in Board Committees and do not have to be approved by the full Board; they are enumerated below as a matter of record.

RESOLVED that Osteen Phillips of Charlottesville is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the ITC Data Center at the University of Virginia.

RESOLVED that RMF Engineering of Charlottesville is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Jordan Hall HVAC Replacement at the University of Virginia.

RESOLVED that after further study an increase to the Scott Stadium Waterproofing project of $2,343,000, bringing the total project budget to $4.7 million, is approved.

RESOLVED that the concept, site, and design guidelines, dated October 4, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University for the Klockner Expansion, are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

RESOLVED that the concept, site, and design guidelines, dated October 4, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University for the Baseball Stadium Expansion, are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

RESOLVED that the concept, site, and design guidelines, dated October 4, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University for the ITC Data Center, on Old Ivy Road, are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

RESOLVED that the concept, site, and design guidelines, dated October 4, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University for the Printing and Copying Services Addition are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

RESOLVED that the concept, site, and design guidelines, dated October 4, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University for the "Rugby Administrative Building"renovation are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated October 4, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University in conjunction with VMDO Architects of Charlottesville for the renovations to the College at Wise Science Building, is approved for further development and construction.

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated October 4, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University in conjunction with Hanbury Evans Wright Vlattas of Norfolk for the College at Wise New Residence Hall, is approved for further development and construction.

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated October 4, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University in conjunction with Hanbury Evans Wright Vlattas of Norfolk for the College at Wise New Dining Hall, is approved for further development and construction.

MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD, JULY 2007, AND OCTOBER 3, 2007CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS, JULY 2007 NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that pursuant to the delegation of authority contained in the May 12, 2005, Resolution of the Medical Center Operating Board, the undersigned Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board hereby approves the following Credentialing and Re-credentialing Actions as specifically set forth below:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF
------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

SECONDARY REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF
----------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for secondary reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

STATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFF
--------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status changes in clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESIGNATIONS OF CLINICAL STAFF
------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Clinical Staff are approved:

PRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
----------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RENEWAL OF PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
-----------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
-------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS, OCTOBER 3, 2007 NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFREAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF 3. SECONDARY REAPPOINTMENTS TO CLINICAL STAFF STATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFFRESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFF SECONDARY APPOINTMENT RESIGNATION FOR CLINICAL STAFF PRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS RENEWAL OF PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS STATUS CHANGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS RESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status changes in clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change in privileges to the following Allied Health Professional are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

ATTACHMENT STATE OPERATING BUDGET REQUESTS FOR THE 2008-2010 BIENNIUM FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ACADEMIC DIVISION, MEDICAL CENTER, AND THE UNIVERSITY'S COLLEGE AT WISE ATTACHMENT A State Operating Budget Requests for the 2008-2010 Biennium for the University of Virginia Academic Division, Medical Center, and The University's College at Wise AGENCY 207 —; Academic Division:AGENCY 209 —; Medical Center: AGENCY 246 —; University's College at Wise: ATTACHMENT B Board of Visitors Special Committee on Foundations Final Report Introduction Methodology Observations Conclusions and Recommendations
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Extension of Higher Education Research Initiative ($6.725 million GF and $3.75 million ETF in years one and two) —; Originally appropriated in 2006-2007, the continuation of this appropriation as part of the base operating budget will allow the University to make continuing, strategic investments in the research enterprise, generating increased sponsored research funding of at least $14.35 million in each year to match the Commonwealth's investment.

Produced in Virginia ($1,500,000 GF in year one and $1,658,000 GF in year two) —; The University will partner with the Virginia Community College System to increase the number of undergraduate engineering degrees awarded in the Commonwealth. Students will complete the first two years of coursework at a community college, then enroll in the University of Virginia and complete an engineering bachelor's degree program through asynchronous technology. At full implementation in six years, the University projects to award an additional 400 degrees per year. These students, all of whom are expected to be Virginians, will be incremental to the number of students previously projected in discussions with the State Council of Higher Education. The request represents start-up costs (recruiting, course design, equipment) of $1.5 million in the first year and $1.3 million in the second year, plus the general fund's share of base budget adequacy funding per undergraduate engineering student for the incremental in-state students (32 FTE) who will join the University in the summer of 2009.

Batten School of Leadership and Public Policy ($418,000 GF in year one and $1,333,000 GF in year two) —; The University has received a $100 million gift from Mr. Frank Batten to create the Batten School of Leadership and Public Policy. These students in the school will be in excess of the number of students previously projected in discussions with the State Council of Higher Education. The request represents the average base budget adequacy funding per in-state student.

Safety and Security ($1,000,000 GF in year one and $500,000 GF in year two) —; The University has created a new Office of Emergency Preparedness in order to respond quickly, appropriately, and effectively in the event of campus-wide emergency events; $350,000 in ongoing state funds are requested to support this initiative. The University has begun to implement new security measures to increase the level of security across the Grounds, particularly in classrooms. Given the number and complexity of University buildings and the size of the Grounds it will take time to effect all the needed changes. In addition, we are still evaluating the recommendations from the Governor's panel investigating the Virginia Tech tragedy. The University needs to be in a position to address those recommendations that are appropriate for our situation and institution. We estimate a one-time request of $650,000 in the first year and $150,000 in the second year to address these recommendations.

Provide Funding for Operations and Maintenance Costs at New Facilities ($951,300 GF in year one and $1,701,100 GF in year two) —; Request support for operations and maintenance costs of new facilities scheduled to open in the 2008-2010 biennium.

Implementation of New Student Information System ($1,500,000 GF in year one and $3,000,000 GF in year two) —; The University requests state support for the project implementation in 2008-2009 and 2009-2010; funding will be used for ongoing maintenance and support after implementation.

Supplement Library Collections ($1,000,000 GF in year one and year two) —;It is critical that the University invest in expensive electronic and print journal subscriptions, expand scientific and multi-cultural resources, and initiate necessary preservation and digitization efforts. The base budget adequacy formula does not appropriately address the needs of a research library that is also looked to as a state resource.

College Guides Program ($240,000 GF in year one and year two) —; Funding is requested for a joint venture, potentially with the College of William & Mary and Virginia Tech, to help more Virginia students enter college or other post-secondary training. Initially funded with a grant by the Jack Kent Cooke Foundation, the program will need on-going funding to be sustained.

Cancer Research Initiative ($5,000,000 GF in year one and year two) —; This is a joint venture request with Virginia Commonwealth University to increase cancer research funding in the Commonwealth.

Support the Virginia Folklife Program ($100,000 GF in year one and year two) —; This support will enable the Virginia Foundation for the Humanities to expand the Virginia Folklife Program, a long-standing program of the Foundation.

Adjust Indigent Care Guidelines —; The Medical Center is considering a joint request with the VCU Health Authority to increase guidelines related to qualified indigent patients to 300 percent of poverty level versus the current definition of 200 percent of poverty level. The level of funding required will depend upon actual indigent care services provided by the Medical Center.

New Student Information System ($1.5 million GF and 2.0 FTEs in year one and $131,500 and 2.0 FTEs in year two) - The College's current Student Information System will no longer be supported after this year. Due to the less complex business requirements of the College and the estimated cost and timeline for implementing PeopleSoft Campus Solutions at Wise, it is not appropriate for the College to join the Academic Division's student system project. This funding will provide for system acquisition and implementation in year one and ongoing operational support in year two.

Critical Faculty Additions ($316,400 GF and 4.0 FTEs in year one and year two) - The College requires four critical faculty positions to address shortfalls within Business (2.0 FTE), Chemistry (1.0 FTE), and Health and Fitness Management (1.0 FTE).

Science Renovation ($2,263,118 GF) Smiddy Hall Renovation/IT Building Construction ($3,000,000) These two requests are for supplemental funding due to construction cost escalation. The supplements were funded by the Governor during 2007 General Assembly session, but due to the final level of funding authorized by the General Assembly (only 90 percent of the system-wide construction project supplements requested) and the status of these two projects at that time (not yet designed or under contract), we must resubmit the requests.

The University of Virginia's policy on the establishment, governance, financial responsibilities and mission of university-related foundations was adopted in May of 1992 by Board of Visitors resolution.

In the past 15 years, University-related foundations have flourished ( today there are 24, exclusive of subsidiaries) and now provide a host of varied but valuable services throughout the entire community. As Foundations have prospered and proliferated, a host of dedicated alumni have renewed their commitment and passion to the University by participating actively through their respective school or non-academic foundation. These individuals have provided philanthropy, leadership, guidance and support to the University in extraordinary fashion. And the Board of Visitors is both grateful and appreciative for the marvelous contributions of each of these Foundations and their representative members.

Concomitant with rapid growth and success at all strong institutions, however, comes the need to revisit critical elements of policy, governance, financial control, efficiencies and sensible strategy. And so the University's Board of Visitors, cognizant of the rapid growth and change in the University's 24 different Foundations in the past 15 years, deemed it appropriate to re-examine Foundation policy, procedures, governance, finances, strengths, weaknesses and efficiencies. To undertake this study, the Rector appointed a Special Committee on Foundations. The attached report reflects that Committee's findings and recommendations.

The Chair of the Special Committee on Foundations and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University scheduled one-on-one individual meetings with each of the 14 major University foundations to best understand their specific needs and requirements. Each such meeting averaged close to two hours and standard questions were posed in an interview format. Using information obtained from each Foundation's response to similar questions, a compendium of over 100 pages of type-written notes was created.

Several general observations were gleaned from that information:

The Committee recommendations are based on the information provided by the individual one-on-one foundation meetings, a review of the Policy on University-Related Foundations adopted by the Board of Visitors in 1992, and from extensive Committee discussion as to proper governance, financial control, efficiencies, policy and strategy.

The nine recommendations of the Special Committee on Foundations are:

Before these recommendations are formally voted upon by the Board of Visitors, the Chair and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer plan to revisit each major foundation to be sure there is understanding and agreement.

The Special Committee on Foundations recommends that it remain as a special committee to the Board for one year. During this time, the Special Committee will monitor progress on the above recommendations and consider some additional issues pertinent to its work such as unrestricted endowment and annual giving.