<!-- llmmeta -->
<script type="application/ld+json">
{
"@context": "https://schema.org",
"@type": "BoardMeeting",
"name": "Board Minutes",
"startDate": "1818-05-11",
"endDate": "1818-05-11",
"location": {
"@type": "Place",
"name": "University of Virginia Library",
"address": {
"@type": "PostalAddress",
"addressLocality": "Charlottesville",
"addressRegion": "Virginia"
}
},
"organizer": {
"@type": "Organization",
"name": "University of Virginia"
},
"keywords": "Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, minutes, governance",
"description": "Minutes of the Board of Visitors meeting on May 11, 1818, detailing discussions on professorships and financial decisions.",
"attendee": \[
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Thomas Jefferson"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "James Madison"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "John H. Cocke"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Joseph C. Cabell"
}
],
"about": \[
{
"@type": "EducationalOrganization",
"name": "University of Virginia",
"description": "The University of Virginia is a public research university in Charlottesville, Virginia, founded by Thomas Jefferson."
},
{
"@type": "GovernmentOrganization",
"name": "Board of Visitors",
"description": "The Board of Visitors is the governing body of the University of Virginia, responsible for overseeing the institution's operations and policies."
}
]
}

</script>
<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1818) May 11, 1818

## Board of Visitors minutes

### University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 11, 1818

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

## Board of Visitors minutes

### Public minutes

1 page

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a regular meeting of the Visitors of the Central College on 11th. May 1818, at which Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, John H. Cocke, & Joseph C. Cabell, were present, it was agreed, that it being uncertain whether Thomas Cooper would accept the Professorship of Chemistry, in the event of his not doing so, it would be expedient to procure a Professor of Mathematicks. It was also agreed to allow the Proctor of the College the sum of two hundred dollars for the present year.
