<!-- llmmeta -->
<script type="application/ld+json">
{
"@context": "https://schema.org",
"@type": "Meeting",
"name": "Board Minutes",
"startDate": "1895-06-10",
"endDate": "1895-06-10",
"location": {
"@type": "Place",
"name": "University of Virginia Library",
"address": {
"@type": "PostalAddress",
"addressLocality": "Charlottesville",
"addressRegion": "Virginia"
}
},
"organizer": {
"@type": "Organization",
"name": "University of Virginia, Board of Visitors"
},
"keywords": "Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, meeting minutes, governance",
"description": "Minutes of the Board of Visitors meeting held on June 10, 1895, detailing reports, resolutions, and other actions taken by the governing body of the University of Virginia.",
"attendee": \[
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "W. C. N. Randolph"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "McCabe"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Watts"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Patteson"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "McCormick"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "R. W. Martin"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "B. B. Gordon"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Thomas S. Martin"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "A. C. Gordon"
}
],
"about": \[
{
"@type": "Report",
"name": "Annual Report of the Faculty"
},
{
"@type": "Report",
"name": "Report of the Medical Faculty"
},
{
"@type": "Report",
"name": "Annual Report of the Proctor"
},
{
"@type": "Report",
"name": "Report Spt of Gs & Buildings"
},
{
"@type": "Report",
"name": "Annual Report of the Librarian"
},
{
"@type": "Report",
"name": "Report Commr of Accounts"
}
]
}

</script>
<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1895) June 10, 1895

## board of visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 10, 1895

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

## Board of Visitors minutes

### Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia commenced this 10th day of June 1895.

Present, W. C. N. Randolph, Rector, and Visitors, McCabe, Watts, Patteson, McCormick, R. W. Martin, B. B. Gordon, Thomas S. Martin and A. C. Gordon. A full Board.

The Chairman of the Faculty laid before the Board the following reports:

* Annual report of the Faculty
* Report of the Medical Faculty
* Annual report of the Proctor
* Report Spt of Gs & Buildings
* Annual report of the Librarian
* Report Commr of Accounts

The various school reports, including the report of Profr Tuttle on his department.

There were also presented, several petitions of Profrs and other persons.

The following was enacted:

Resolved, that the report of the Medical Faculty be referred to a Special Committee consisting of the Rector and Dr R. W. Martin.

Resolved, that the pavilion on the Lawn lately occupied by Profr Schele be assigned to Profr Kent.

Resolved, that the communication of Mr Eugene C. Massie be referred to the Committee on Health etc., with instructions to ask the aid of the Supt of Grounds & Buildings, and to confer with the authorities of the City of Charlottesville with a view to a connection with the city sewerage system and report such plan in the premises as to said Committee may seem expedient and wise.

Resolved, that the sum of Five hundred dollars be appropriated to secure the services of a cataloguer for the session 1895-96 to continue the "Card Catalogue" of the Library, the said amount to be paid from the Fayerweather fund.

Resolved, that it is inexpedient in the judgment of the Board, to comply with the request of Mrs Cocke to be allowed to rent rooms on Monroe Hill for the use of her summer boarders, and that Secretary notify Mrs Cocke of this action.

Resolved, that the summer Students be permitted to occupy the rooms mentioned in section 144 of the Laws of the University, on the terms therein mentioned, but they shall not be required to board with the tenants of the University Hotels, provided when they do not board with said hotel keepers they shall be responsible for the dormitories so occupied without cost to the University, such being the legal intendment and effect of said section 144.

Resolved, that it would give the Board of Visitors very sincere pleasure to accede to the request made by the distinguished Profr of Common & Statute Law that his assistant, Raleigh C. Minor be allowed to represent the School of Common & Statute Law in the Faculty meetings, but that they are forbidden to grant the request by the existing laws of the University.

The Rector presented a resolution of the Washington, D. C, Society of the Alumni of the University and a letter of its secretary accompanying the same in relation to Profr Schele, which was read and considered and thereupon the following was adopted:

The Board acknowledges through the Rector the receipt of the resolution of the Washington Association of the Alumni of the University of Va of date April 15th 1895 and the reply of the Rector thereto, which resolution and reply are in the following words and figures, to wit:

At the regular annual meeting of the Washington Association of Alumni of the University of Virginia held in the City April 15th 1895, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, that this Association learns with deep regret that Profr Schele De Vere is now in great financial straits and earnestly requests that the Board of Visitors adopt some measures for his relief

Dear Sir, I received on yesterday a copy of the resolution of the Washington Association of the Alumni. Upon Profr Schele De Vere's resignation and severance of his connection with the University of Virginia, the Board of Visitors had no further power to adopt any measure for his financial relief, nor can they, without betraying their trust, expend the institutions money, except for such purposes as are prescribed by law. The resolution will be laid before the Board at its meeting in June.

Your Committee to whom was referred the matter of sewage beg leave to report that after a conference with the Committee of the town Council of Charlottesville they are of opinion that a special Committee should be appointed from this Board with Profr Echols from the Faculty to further consider the matter and report to the July meeting of the Board.

* R. W. Martin Committee
* Marshall McCormick Committee
* Camm Patteson Committee

The report was read and considered, and on motion the same was approved and adopted together with its recommendations.

The special Committee on Sewerage for the duties under the foregoing report consists of the Committee on Health, Sewerage, etc., and Profr Echols of the Faculty.

Resolved that it is inexpedient at this time to add to the Medical Curriculum the subject of Analytical Chemistry.

Resolved that Geo. E. Cato is hereby relieved from any further payment on account of his matriculation as a member of the Medical class, it appearing that he entered the class with the expectation of remaining to the end of the session but had to resign because of the death of his father.

Resolved that leave be given Profr Garnett to attend the Genl Council of the Episcopal Church to be held at Minneapolis in October 1895.

Resolved that R. W. Martin & W. C. N. Randolph be appointed a special Committee to prepare and submit to the Board at its meeting to be held on the 2d of July a plan and specifications for the establishment of a hospital, with a wing to be used as an infirmary for students, and showing the cost of erection, equipment and maintenance. Said Committee may take into consideration the advisability of utilizing the present Dispensary building, and the cost of connecting it with a hospital and also any other unoccupied building of the University including the building called Temperance Hall.

Resolved that the Rector be authorized, after examination to approve the reports of the settlements of the Austin Estate made by Thos R. Proctor, Trustee and by said Proctor and William Endicott 3d Trustees, and he is hereby authorized hereafter to examine future accounts of said trustees and approve the same if his judgment concurs in their approval.

Mr R. F. Nixon a student of the present session having been requested by the Faculty to withdraw from the University, appealed from the action of the Faculty to the Board, the Board after reading the appeal and hearing the statement of the Chairman of the Faculty in regard to the matter, it was resolved,

That without reflection of any kind upon the character of Mr R. F. Nixon, in furtherance of the proper discipline of the University, the action of the Faculty in requesting Mr Nixon's withdrawal from the University, be sustained.

A communication having been received from Profr Garnett expressing a desire to be heard on the subject of the proposed reorganization of the School of Modern Languages,

Resolved that the Secretary be requested to inform Mr Garnett that the Board will be pleased to hear him on the 2nd day of July to which date the Board will adjourn, it being impossible to hear him in the few remaining hours now at the disposal of the Board at its present meeting.

On motion Profr Wm M. Thornton was reelected Chairman of the Faculty.

The Rector and Visitors, T. S. Martin, A. C. Gordon, W. Gordon McCabe and Leigh R. Watts were elected as the Executive Committee.

In consideration of the press of other business of the session, which interfered with the preparation of the annual report of the Finance Committee, further time was given the Committee at their request, to the adjourned meeting on the 2d of July next to prepare and submit their report.

On motion the Board adjourned to the 2d of July 1895.
