<!-- llmmeta -->
<script type="application/ld+json">
{
"@context": "http://schema.org",
"@type": "BoardMinutes",
"name": "Board of Visitors minutes",
"startDate": "1925-06-24T20:00:00",
"endDate": "1925-06-24T21:00:00",
"location": {
"@type": "Place",
"name": "University of Virginia Library",
"address": {
"@type": "PostalAddress",
"addressLocality": "Charlottesville",
"addressRegion": "Virginia"
}
},
"organizer": {
"@type": "Organization",
"name": "University of Virginia, Board of Visitors"
},
"keywords": "Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, faculty resignations, alcohol, academic conduct",
"description": "Minutes from the Board of Visitors meeting discussing the resignations of Professors Albert Lefevre and W. S. A. Pott, and Dr. Charles P. Howze, involving charges related to alcohol.",
"attendee": \[
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Dillard"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Hall"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Hart"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Hull"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "McIntire"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Rinehart"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Scott"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Williams"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Walker"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Alderman"
}
],
"about": \[
{
"@type": "Event",
"name": "Resignation of Professors and Doctor",
"description": "Discussion regarding the resignations of Professors Albert Lefevre and W. S. A. Pott, and Dr. Charles P. Howze."
},
{
"@type": "Resolution",
"name": "Resolution on Alcohol Use",
"description": "The Board decided to suspend Prof. Lefevre for one year due to issues concerning alcohol use."
}
]
}

</script>
<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1925) June 24, 1925

## board of visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 24, 1925

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

## Board of Visitors minutes

### Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

An adjourned meeting of the Board was held on this date at 8 o'clock to consider and act upon the resignations of Professors Albert Lefevre and W. S. A. Pott, and Dr. Charles P. Howze.

There were present Visitors Dillard, Hall, Hart, Hull, McIntire, Rinehart, Scott, Williams and Walker, and President Alderman.

The President stated to the Board that Professors Albert Lefevre and W. S. A. Pott, and Dr. Charles P. Howze of the University Hospital staff had tendered to him their resignations as members of the faculty of the University following charges preferred against them for intoxication and transportation of liquor, when the car in which they were riding turned over near Hanover while on their way to Richmond on May 17, 1925, and that when the case came to trial before the grand jury of Hanover County, Messrs. Pott and Howze were acquitted of all charges, but in the case of Dr. Lefevre a fine was imposed for unintentional transportation of liquor. He further stated that Prof. Lefevre assumed all responsibility in the matter, stating that he had taken from the house of a friend, whom he was visiting, a small silver flask that had been left there previously, without knowing the amount of its contents and without having opened it, placed it in the pocket of the door of the car in which he was riding.

Following the presentation of the matter by the President, Prof. Lefevre was heard by the Board. He made a very straightforward statement of the whole matter expressing his deepest regret for any odium cast upon the University on account of his connection with the matter. He stated to the Board that he was reared under conditions when social drinking was not considered ungentlemanly or prohibited by law, and in reply to questions by the members of the Board stated that he made it a rule never to take a drink before going to class or to drink with any of the students in his own home since the adoption of the prohibitory laws; that he never was drunk in his classroom nor had he ever left or missed a class on account of being drunk; nor did he use intoxicating liquors except in some few cases with special friends.

After several motions had been made and failed of adoption, the following resolution offered by Mr. Hall and seconded by Mr. Rinehart, was adopted by a vote of seven to two:
(Ayes: Dillard, Hall, Hart, McIntire, Rinehart, Williams, and Walker. Noes: Hull and Scott.)

The Rector and Visitors decline to accept the resignations of Professors Albert Lefevre and W. S. A. Pott and Dr. Charles P. Howze, voluntarily tendered by them in view of certain charges preferred against them by the Grand Jury of Hanover County, on the ground that they were acquitted of all charges, save in the case of Dr. Lefevre on the one item of unintentional transportation of a small amount of liquor in a pocket flask.

The Rector and Visitors, however, are convinced that Prof. Lefevre has for some time permitted himself a too free use of alcoholic liquors and hereby authorize and direct the President to suspend him, for one year from July 1, 1925.

The Rector and Visitors highly respect the character, ability and the teaching power of Prof. Lefevre. His influence upon the student life in the big essentials of conduct of the University, save in the too free use of alcoholic liquors has been good and permanent and no moral turpitude attaches to his name.

It is the decision of the Rector and Visitors that a reorganization of his habits, as regards any use of alcoholic liquors, is fundamental to his functioning as a teacher of youth, and such a reorganization of his habits must be an assured and permanent fact before he is offered further service upon the teaching staff of the University of Virginia.

Several days after the adjournment of the Board the President was approached by friends of Prof. Lefevre in an effort to have the last paragraph of the resolution changed to read as follows:

It is the decision of the Rector and Visitors that a reorganization of his habits, as regards any use of alcoholic liquors, is fundamental to his functioning as a teacher of youth, and such a reorganization of his habits must be an assured and permanent fact before he automatically resumes, on July 1, 1926, his former post as Professor of Philosophy upon the teaching staff of the University of Virginia.

The President sent to the members of the Board the amended resolution for mail vote, but it was not unanimously adopted and therefore cannot be recorded officially, but is entered here to complete the actions taken in this matter.

On motion the meeting then adjourned.
