# MODERN LIBRARY SERIES 1937

## 1937

**General**

Cerf and Klopfer’s acquisition early in 1936 of the publishing firm
Harrison Smith and Robert K. Haas and the subsequent change in the legal
name of the firm from The Modern Library, Inc. to Random House, Inc. was
followed by a surge in trade publishing.

Trade books published by Random House in 1937 include the following:
W. H. Auden and Christopher Isherwood, *The Ascent of F6: A Tragedy in
Two Acts*; W. H. Auden and Louis MacNeice, *Letters from Iceland*; Harry
Elmer Barnes, *An Intellectual and Cultural History of the Western
World*; Catherine Drinker Bowen and Barbara von Meck, *Beloved Friend:
The Story of Tchaikowsky and Nadejda von Meck*; two *Babar* books by
Jean de Brunhoff, *Babar and Zephir* and *Zephir’s Holidays*; Rudolf
Brunngraber, *Radium: A Novel*; Morley Callaghan, *More Joy in Heaven*;
E. H. Carr, *Michael Bakunin*; Paul Vincent Carroll, *Shadow and
Substance*; Charles J. Connick, *Adventures in Light and Color: An
Introduction to the Stained Glass Craft*; Edwin Corle, *People on the
Earth*; Thomas De Quincey, *Selected Writings*, selected and edited by
Philip Van Doren Stern; Havelock Ellis, *Studies in the Psychology of
Sex*; Robert Graves, *The Antigua Stamp*; Lancelot Hogben, *Retreat from
Reason*; Robinson Jeffers, *Such Counsels You Gave to Me & Other Poems*
and *Selected Poetry of Robinson Jeffers*; Alva Johnston, *The Great
Goldwyn*; George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart, *I’d Rather be Right: A
Musical Revue*; Clare Boothe Luce, *The Women: A Play*; Louis MacNeice,
*Poems*; James Morier, *Adventures of Hajji Baba of Ispahan*,
illustrated by Cyrus Roy Baldridge; Clifford Odets, *Golden Boy, A Play
in Three Acts*; Elliot Paul, *The Life and Death of a Spanish Town*;
*The Dialogues of Plato*, translated into English by Benjamin Jowett;
Laura Riding, *A Trojan Ending*; Romain Rolland, *The Wolves: A Play in
Three Acts*; Stephen Spender, *Forward from Liberalism*; Gertrude Stein,
*Everybody’s Autobiography*; Hudson Strode, *South by Thunderbird*; Noel
Streatfeild, *Ballet Shoes*; Anthony Trollope, *The Kellys and the
O’Kellys*; and Leane Zugsmith, *Home Is Where You Hang Your Childhood
and Other Stories*.

**Number of titles**

Eleven new titles were added to the Modern Library and eight were
discontinued, bringing the number of titles in the regular series to
216. Seven new titles were published in the Giants series; by the end of
1937 ML Giants included thirty-five titles in thirty-seven volumes.

**Format**

All new titles in the regular ML except D. H. Lawrence, *Women in Love*
(302) and John Dos Passos, *The 42nd Parallel* (307) were published in
the standard format with the binding measuring 6⅝ x 4⅜ in. (168 x 110
mm) and leaves trimmed to 6½ x 4¼ in. (164 x 107 mm). *Women in Love*
was ¼ in. taller and wider to accommodate the Seltzer/Viking Press
plates; *The 42nd Parallel* was ¼ in. taller and ⅛ in. wider to
accommodate new Harcourt, Brace plates.

The ML’s standard format was enlarged in fall 1939. The new binding
measured 7¼ x 4⅞ in. (182 x 123 mm) with a trim size of 7 x 4¾ in. (177
x 120 mm). In 1969 a taller, slightly slimmer format was introduced with
the binding measuring 7½ x 4¾ in. (190 x 120 mm) and a trim size of 7¼ x
4½ in. (182 x 115 mm). All dimensions indicated are approximate.

Most books through 1954 were printed with 16 pages on each side of the
sheet and bound in gatherings of 16 leaves (32 pages); by 1956 most
books were being printed with 32 pages on each side of the sheet and
bound in gatherings of 32 leaves (64 pages).

**Title page**

All new titles had the final version of Elmer Adler’s title page with
the title in open-face type; all but four had torchbearer A3. Reade,
C*loister of the Hearth* (303), Woolf, *To the Lighthouse* (306), Dos
Passos, *The* *42nd Parallel* (307), and Calverton, ed., *Making of
Society* (308) had torchbearer A2. All new titles had the 2-line imprint
that had been used since March 1936 after the Modern Library acquired
the publishing firm Harrison Smith and Robert Haas, and Haas and Smith
joined Cerf and Klopfer as partners:

T H E M O D E R N L I B R A R Y

NEW YORK

Smith resigned from Random House at the end of 1936, leaving the firm
with three partners. Stendhal, *Charterhouse of Parma* (298), which was
published in January but had been printed prior to Smith’s resignation,
includes the names of all four partners on the verso of its title page:

T H E M O D E R N L I B R A R Y

IS PUBLISHED BY

R A N D O M H O U S E , I N C .

BENNETT A. CERF \[2-line RH ROBERT K. HAAS

DONALD S. KLOPFER device\] HARRISON SMITH

All other 1937 titles shift the RH device to the top of the publication
statement and list the names of the three remaining partners in a single
line:

\[RH device\]

T H E M O D E R N L I B R A R Y

IS PUBLISHED BY

R A N D O M H O U S E , I N C .

BENNETT A. CERF · DONALD S. KLOPFER · ROBERT K. HAAS

**Binding**

Balloon cloth binding D, with Kent’s torchbearer (1⅛ in.; 27 mm) stamped
in gold on the front panel and stylized initials “ML” added in gold
above the 2-line imprint on the spine. Balloon cloth bindings continued
to be available in four colors: red, blue, green, and brown, with the
top edge stained the same color as the binding. Each title was published
simultaneously in all four bindings.

**Endpaper**

Rockwell Kent endpapers in moderate orange (53). Moderate orange
endpapers were used with all balloon cloth bindings from fall 1930
through spring 1939 except for Reed, *Ten Days That Shook the World*
(1935) and three spring 1939 titles, all of which were published in the
larger format that the ML adopted for all titles beginning fall 1939. An
enlarged version of Kent’s endpaper was introduced in spring 1940. The
central panels featuring Kent’s torchbearer were unchanged, but the
surrounding patterns of open books and “ml” initials were extended to
fill the larger space.

**Jackets**

All new titles were published in individually designed pictorial jackets
except Lawrence, *Women in Love* (302), Reade, *Cloister of the Hearth*
(303), Dos Passos, *The 42nd Parallel* (307), and *The Making of
Society*, ed. Calverton (308), which had individually designed
non-pictorial jackets.

**Price**

95 cents.

**Dating keys**

(Spring) Graves, *I, Claudius* xWoolf, *To the Lighthouse*; Giants
through G34; jackets: 246. (Fall) Woolf, *To the Lighthouse* xConfucius,
*Wisdom*; Giants through G37; jackets: 253.

**Titles sought, suggested, declined**

Cerf sought several titles in 1937 for which the original publishers
were unwilling to grant reprint rights. Little, Brown rejected Cerf’s
offer for a ML edition of Emily Dickinson’s poetry (Alfred R. McIntyre,
Little, Brown & Co., to Cerf, 26 May 1937). Houghton Mifflin declined an
offer to add *The Rise of Silas Lapham* by William Dean Howells (Cerf to
Robert Linscott, Houghton Mifflin, 18 October 1937; Linscott to Klopfer,
4 January 1938). The ML was able to publish *Selected Poetry of Emily
Dickinson* (410) in 1948 and *The Rise of Silas Lapham* (442) in 1951.

Cerf decided not to publish a ML edition of Thomas Wolfe’s *Of Time and
the River* (Cerf to Maxwell Perkins, Scribner’s, 21 October 1937).

**New titles**

Stendhal, *Charterhouse of Parma* (1937) 298

O’Neill, *Emperor Jones, Anna Christie, The Hairy Ape* (1937) 299

Lundberg, *Imperial Hearst* (1937) 300

Graves, *I, Claudius* (1937) 301

Lawrence, *Women in Love* (1937) 302

Reade, *Cloister and the Hearth* (1937) 303

Steinbeck, *Tortilla Flat* (1937) 304

Thoreau, *Walden and Other Writings* (1937) 305

Woolf, *To the Lighthouse* (1937) 306

Dos Passos, *42nd Parallel* (1937) 307

Calverton, ed., *Making of Society* (1937) 308

**Discontinued**

Apuleius, *Golden Ass* (1928)

Cather, *Death Comes for the Archbishop* (1931)

Huysmans, *Against the Grain* (1930)

Lewisohn, ed., *Modern Book of Criticism* (1920)

Nietzsche, *Beyond Good and Evil* (1917)

Nietzsche, *Ecce Homo & The Birth of Tragedy* (1927)

O’Neill, *Emperor* *Jones*; *The* *Straw* (1928)\*

Wilder, *The Cabala* (1929)

\*Superseded spring 1937 by O’Neill, *Emperor Jones, Anna Christie, The
Hairy Ape* (299)

***Spring***

### 298

**STENDHAL. THE CHARTERHOUSE OF PARMA. 1937–1943. (ML 150)**

#### 298a. First printing (1937)

\[within double rules\] THE CHARTERHOUSE | OF PARMA | \[rule\] | BY |
STENDHAL | (HENRI BEYLE) | \[rule\] | With *A Study of M. Beyle* by |
HONORÉ DE BALZAC | \[rule\] | TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH BY | C. K.
SCOTT MONCRIEFF | \[rule\] | \[torchbearer A3\] | \[rule\] | THE MODERN
LIBRARY | NEW YORK

Pp. \[*2*\], \[i–vi\] vii–lxxxi \[lxxxii\], \[*2*\], 1–290; \[*2*\],
1–343 \[344–350\]. \[1–22\]<sup>16</sup> \[23\]<sup>8</sup>
\[24\]<sup>4</sup>

\[*1*\] half title; \[*2*\] pub. note D12; \[i\] title; \[ii\]
*Copyright,* 1925, *by* BONI & LIVERIGHT, INC. | \[short double rule\] |
*First Modern Library Edition* | 1937; \[iii\] biographical note headed:
STENDHAL | (<span class="smallcaps">Henri Beyle</span>) | (1783-1842);
\[iv\] blank; \[v\] TRANSLATOR’S DEDICATION; \[vi\] blank; vii–lxxiii A
STUDY OF M. BEYLE | By <span class="smallcaps">Honore De Balzac</span>;
lxxiv–lxxxi BEYLE’S REPLY TO BALZAC; \[lxxxii\] blank; \[*1*\] part
title: *The Works of Stendhal* | .I. | THE CHARTERHOUSE | OF PARMA |
VOLUME ONE; \[*2*\] blank; 1–2 *TO THE READER* dated p. 2: 23rd January,
1839.; 3–290 text; \[*1*\] part title: *The Works of Stendhal* | .I. |
THE CHARTERHOUSE | OF PARMA | VOLUME TWO; \[*2*\] blank; 1–325 text;
\[326\] blank; \[327\] part title: APPENDIX; \[328\] blank; 329–332
APPENDIX signed p. 332: C. K. S. M.; 333–340 FRAGMENT I | *BIRAGUE’S
NARRATIVE*; 341–343 FRAGMENT II | *CONTE ZORAFI, THE PRINCE’S* |
*“PRESS”*; \[344–350\] blank.

*Jacket A:* Pictorial in deep reddish orange (36) and black on cream
paper depicting Napoleon in silhouette with clouds and deep reddish
orange sky in background; borders in deep reddish orange, title in
reverse and deep reddish orange on black panel below illustration, other
lettering in black. Signed: Cassens.

> Front flap:<br>
> The foremost authorities of the world are in agreement that *The
> Charterhouse of Parma* is one of the great works of fiction in the
> French language. Such writers as Balzac, Nietzsche, Zola, Dowden,
> André Gide and Lytton Strachey acclaimed it. *The Charterhouse of
> Parma* finds a distinguished place in the Modern Library series. With
> *The Red and the Black* (No. 157), Stendhal is now represented by his
> two chief novels. The translation by C. K. Scott Moncrieff captures
> the glowing spirit of this nineteenth-century masterpiece. (*Fall
> 1936*)

Scott Moncrieff translation originally published in U.S. by Boni &
Liveright, 1925, as vols. 1–2 of *The Works of Stendhal*. ML edition
(pp. \[v\]–290; \[*1*\]–343) printed from B&L plates. Published January
1937. *WR* 23 January 1937. First printing: 5,000 copies. Discontinued
fall 1943.

Arthur Pell, president of the Liveright Publishing Corporation, had to
secure the approval of the Stendhal estate before he could sign the
reprint contract for the ML edition. Lewis Galantière agreed to write an
introduction to the ML edition: “It will make Stendhal sell,” he assured
Cerf, “and remember that he has never sold in America” (Galantière to
Cerf, 30 October 1936). Galantière missed the deadline; *The
Charterhouse of Parma* went to press without an introduction, and sales
were disappointing.

Total printings of the ML edition were as follows: 5,000 copies
(November 1936); 1,000 copies (November 1940); 1,000 copies (March
1941); 1,000 copies (January 1942); 1,000 copies (November 1942). Unsold
copies of the first printing, which were in the ML’s balloon cloth
format, were remaindered after the November 1940 printing, which was in
the larger format that the ML introduced in fall 1939. (Information
about Macy’s February 1941 sale of 110,000 balloon cloth volumes appears
under “General” in the chapter for 1939.)

Wartime paper shortages together with a surge in demand for reading
matter in general contributed to the ML’s decision to drop *The
Charterhouse of Parma*, which continued to sell poorly in comparison to
other titles in the series. The discontinuation of the ML edition in
fall 1943 provoked strong protests and damaged the ML’s reputation among
academics and intellectuals. The debate began with an open letter by
George Mayberry in the *New Republic* (8 November 1943, p. 661):

> An Open Letter
>
> The Modern Library, Inc.,
>
> New York City.
>
> Sirs: Reading one of your recent circulars to the trade I was deeply
> shocked to discover that along with James Branch Cabell’s “Jurgen” and
> John Strachey’s “The Coming Struggle for Power,” Stendhal’s “The
> Charterhouse of Parma” was dropped from the Modern Library on August
> 15, 1943. The demise of the first two books is hardly disturbing, if
> no one has begrudged their respectively arch and instructive existence
> in your series. But the passing of Stendhal’s masterpiece in
> Scott-Moncrieff’s incomparable translation is serious enough for
> comment.
>
> One assumes that from time to time the poorest-selling titles are
> dropped from your list, and as a general procedure this can hardly be
> quarreled with. Nor is there need to ring the obvious changes on the
> ironies that Stendhal is surely one of the most “modern” of
> nineteenth-century writers, that his contemporaneity was recently
> dramatically invoked when two serious commentators on the Allied
> invasion of Italy drew parallels between this event and the first
> chapter of “The Charterhouse of Parma,” that Stendhal looked for no
> public (nor did he have one) until long after his death, that he
> somewhat tediously addressed his fiction to “the happy few,” among
> whom the patrons of your series surely wish to be classed.
>
> You need not be reminded that “The Charterhouse of Parma” is one of
> the world’s great novels, that however few copies may have been sold
> in recent years, its popularity will hardly diminish over a period of
> time, and that it will be read for centuries to come. Whatever
> immediate impulse, then, impels you to drop it is the result of
> commercial as well as esthetic shortsightedness.
>
> May I urge you, therefore, to reconsider your decision. For this great
> book, in a translation that matches its greatness, to go out of print
> will be a serious deprivation for a coming generation of readers, even
> if a handful are now to profit (one presumes) by picking up
> remaindered copies at Macy’s.
>
> <span class="smallcaps">George Mayberry</span>

Cerf’s response ignored the cultural and literary issues raised by
Mayberry and focused on sales (“Stendhal and the Modern Library,” *New
Republic*, 29 November 1943, pp. 747-48):

> Sir: Your issue of November 8 contains an open letter addressed to the
> Modern Library and signed by George Mayberry, which questions our
> announced intention of dropping Stendhal’s “The Charterhouse of Parma”
> from the Modern Library. May I explain why this step was taken?
>
> The total sale of this volume in our series in 1938 was 307 copies; in
> 1939, 636 copies; in 1940, 544 copies; in 1941, 820 copies. Last year,
> when the sale of every title in the series was booming, ‘The
> Charterhouse of Parma’ crept up to 1,083. Of all the 234 titles in the
> Modern Library, this sales record is one of the worst three. Under
> present conditions, when every sheet of paper counts, it seemed to us
> that we had no choice in the matter but to drop such a laggard from
> the series. It is necessary to print a book of this length in the
> Modern Library in an edition of 5,000 copies; such a printing would
> have lasted us in this case, under the most favorable conditions, for
> somewhere between four and five years. \[*This statement was not
> strictly true. The first printing was for 5,000 copies, but the ML had
> reprinted it, as noted above, 1,000 copies at a time*.\]
>
> May I explain further that we have frequently been compelled to drop
> titles from the Modern Library that we should have liked to have kept
> there but that were obviously standing in the way of the healthy
> growth of the entire series. We have had examples before of fine
> reprint series that were damaged beyond repair by the retention of
> obvious deadwood. Some booksellers have neither the inclination nor
> the time to check stock carefully on each series; they see on their
> shelves an ample stock of the titles that do not sell rapidly and
> quite overlook the fact that they are sold out on the really popular
> numbers. Gradually the impression grows upon them that the series is
> losing its popularity and, one fine day, they remove the books from a
> favorable and accessible position in the front of the store to some
> dusty shelf in the rear. The fact that this has never happened to the
> Modern Library, we attribute to our admittedly ruthless policy of
> eliminating all titles that cannot hold their own after a full trial
> period in actual sales.
>
> Incidentally, we’d like to point out to Mr. Mayberry that Stendhal’s
> “The Red and the Black” is still obtainable in the Modern Library.
> Some day I hope that public demand will warrant the relisting of “The
> Charterhouse of Parma.”
>
> BENNETT A. CERF

Mayberry’s response appeared in square brackets following Cerf’s letter:

> \[I think Mr. Cerf’s explanation was anticipated in my original
> letter. His “ruthless” commercial candor is a refreshing contrast to
> the pious highmindedness of most of those engaged in the business of
> making and selling books, but I still feel that Mr. Cerf could keep
> “such a laggard” as “The Charterhouse of Parma” on his list without
> seriously prejudicing the popularity or the financial prospects of the
> Modern Library. —G.M.\]

Intellectuals were not appeased; the discontinuation of *The
Charterhouse of Parma* became a cause célèbre. In 1945 the little
magazine *Pharos* published a special issue on Stendhal in which Harry
Levin, the future Irving Babbitt Professor of Comparative Literature at
Harvard, reprinted Mayberry’s “Open Letter” and charged that “the
publishers of The Modern Library committed the cultural outrage against
their country of dropping from the Library their edition of Stendhal’s
masterpiece *The Charterhouse of Parma* because they thought they were
unable to sell it as numerously as such great works of literature as
*Life with Father* and *Rebecca*” (*Pharos*, no. 3, Winter 1945, p. 71).

Levin acknowledged in his introductory note to the issue, which
consisted primarily of his sixty-four-page essay, “Toward Stendhal”:
“. . . it cannot be said that he has been widely discussed in English,
in spite of some admirable translations by C. K. Scott-Moncrieff; and in
America, with the clairvoyant exceptions of James and Huneker, Stendhal
has received little notice and exerted no influence” (ibid., p. 5).

James T. Farrell, writing the following year about the commercialization
of publishing, asserted that a study of ML titles added and dropped in
recent years showed that its editors were “gradually watering down their
stock” (“Will the Commercialization of Literature Destroy Good Writing?
Some Observations on the Future of Books,” *New Directions* 9, 1946, p.
13).

When Jason Epstein launched Anchor Books, the first American “quality”
or “trade” paperback series, in 1953—a decade after the fact—he staked a
claim to the intellectual audience by making *The Charterhouse of Parma*
his first title.

In 1999, fifty-six years after *The Charterhouse of Parma* was
discontinued, the ML restored it to the series in a new translation by
Richard Howard. That edition, in paperback, was in print as of 2016.

#### 298b. Title page reset (1940)

THE | CHARTERHOUSE | OF PARMA | BY STENDHAL | (HENRI BEYLE) | WITH A
STUDY OF M. BEYLE BY | HONORÉ DE BALZAC | TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH BY
| C. K. SCOTT MONCRIEFF | \[torchbearer E1\] | \[rule\] | MODERN LIBRARY
· NEW YORK | \[rule\]

Pagination and collation as 298a.

Contents as 298a except: \[*2*\] blank; \[ii\] COPYRIGHT, 1925, BY BONI
& LIVERIGHT, INC.; \[344\] blank; \[345–349\] ML list; \[350\] blank.
(*Spring 1941*) *Note:* November 1940 printing not seen.

*Jacket B:* Non-pictorial in strong orange yellow (68) and black on
cream paper with title and author in black on inset cream panel;
background in strong orange yellow with series and torchbearer in
reverse below inset panel. Designed by Joseph Blumenthal. Front flap as
298a. (*Spring 1941*)

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span>

Stendhal, *Red and the Black* (1929–1973; 1984– ) 177

### 299

**EUGENE O’NEILL. THE EMPEROR JONES, ANNA CHRISTIE, THE HAIRY APE.
1937–1971. (ML 146)**

#### 299a. First printing (1937)

\[within double rules\] THE EMPEROR JONES | ANNA CHRISTIE | THE HAIRY
APE | \[rule\] | BY | EUGENE O’NEILL | \[rule\] | WITH AN INTRODUCTION
BY | LIONEL TRILLING | \[rule\] | \[torchbearer A3\] | \[rule\] | THE
MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK

Pp. \[i–iv\] v–xix \[xx\], \[1–4\] 5–260 \[261–268\].
\[1–8\]<sup>16</sup> \[9–10\]<sup>8</sup>

\[i\] half title; \[ii\] pub. note D12; \[iii\] title; \[iv\] *The
Emperor Jones,* copyright, 1921, by | HORACE LIVERIGHT, INC. | *Anna
Christie,* copyright, 1922, by | HORACE LIVERIGHT, INC. | *The Hairy
Ape,* copyright, 1922, by | HORACE LIVERIGHT, INC. | *Introduction,*
copyright, 1937, by | RANDOM HOUSE, INC. | \[short double rule\] |
*First Modern Library Edition* | 1937; v CONTENTS; \[vi\] blank; vii–xix
INTRODUCTION | <span class="smallcaps">By Lionel Trilling</span>; \[xx\]
blank; \[1\] part title: THE EMPEROR JONES; \[2\] blank; \[3\]
CHARACTERS; \[4\] blank; 5–260 text; \[261–268\] blank.

*Jacket A:* Pictorial in deep blue (179), bluish gray (191) and black on
cream paper with drawing of O’Neill at lower left against overlapping
panels in deep blue and bluish gray; borders in deep blue, title in
reverse against deep blue panel, other lettering in black against gray
panel and cream bands at top and foot. Unsigned.

> Front flap:<br>
> The award of the 1936 Nobel Prize for Literature to Eugene O’Neill
> brings new distinction to the foremost playwright of the world. In
> observance of the event, the Modern Library has the honor to issue
> three of his best-known plays in a single volume. *The Emperor Jones*,
> *Anna Christie* and *The Hairy Ape* represent the work by which Eugene
> O’Neill first established his reputation, and they are by unanimous
> consent the plays by which his name will be remembered through the
> years. (*Spring 1937*)

Original ML collection superseding O’Neill, *Emperor* *Jones*; *The*
*Straw* (157). Published February 1937. *WR* 27 February 1937. First
printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued 1971/72. Published in Vintage
Books, 1972, using plates made from a new typesetting.

*The Emperor Jones, Anna Christie, The Hairy Ape* and its predecessor in
the ML, *The Emperor Jones; The Straw* (157), use the original version
of *The Emperor Jones*. *Nine Plays* (G53) and *The Plays of Eugene
O’Neill* (624) use the revised version. See *The Emperor Jones; The
Straw* (157) for full information.

The ML paid O’Neill royalties of 5 cents a copy. Shortly before O’Neill
was awarded the 1936 Nobel Prize for Literature, Cerf asked his
permission to replace the ML volume containing *The Emperor Jones* and
*The Straw* with one containing *The Emperor Jones*, *Anna Christie*,
and *The Hairy Ape*. “The substitution of two of your first-line plays
for THE STRAW should mean a tremendous increase in the sale of the
Modern Library volume” (Cerf to O’Neill, 20 October 1936).

*The Emperor Jones, Anna Christie, The Hairy Ape* sold 4,051 copies
during the eighteen-month period May 1942–October 1943, placing it in
the third quarter of ML and Giant titles. During the same period
O’Neill’s *Nine Plays* (G53) sold 7,967 copies, placing it solidly in
the first quarter, and *The Long Voyage Home* (101) sold 2,457 copies.
O’Neill’s sales increased by the early 1950s. *The Emperor Jones, Anna
Christie, The Hairy Ape* sold 3,708 copies during the twelve-month
period November 1951–October 1952, placing it high in the second quarter
of ML and Giant titles. *Nine Plays* was in the first quarter with sales
of 5,651 copies.

#### 299b. Title page reset (1940)

THE | EMPEROR JONES | ANNA CHRISTIE | THE HAIRY APE | by Eugene O’Neill
| INTRODUCTION BY | LIONEL TRILLING | \[torchbearer D1 at right; 3-line
imprint at left\] THE | MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK | \[rule\]

Pagination and collation as 299a.

Contents as 299a except: \[ii\] blank; \[iv\] *The Emperor Jones* |
COPYRIGHT, 1921, BY HORACE LIVERIGHT, INC. | *Anna Christie* |
COPYRIGHT, 1922, BY HORACE LIVERIGHT, INC. | *The Hairy Ape* |
COPYRIGHT, 1922, BY HORACE LIVERIGHT, INC. | *Introduction* | COPYRIGHT,
1937, BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC.; \[261–265\] ML list; \[266–267\] ML Giants
list; \[268\] blank. (*Spring 1940*)

> *Variant A:* Pagination as 299a except: \[i–vi\] vii–xix \[xx\].
> \[1–9\]<sup>16</sup>. Contents as 299b except: \[v\] CONTENTS;
> \[261–266\] ML list; \[267–268\] ML Giants list. (*Spring 1948*)
> *Note:* Battered page numeral “v” removed from plates.
>
> *Variant B:* Pagination and collation as variant A. Contents as
> variant A except: \[iv\] copyright renewal notices (1948 and 1949)
> added for plays. (*Fall 1954*)
>
> *Variant C:* Pagination and collation as variant A. Contents as
> variant B except: \[iv\] copyright renewal notice (1964) added for
> introduction; \[261–268\] ML list. (*Fall 1965*)

*Jacket* *B:* Non-pictorial in moderate greenish blue (173) and black on
cream paper with title and author in reverse against dark greenish blue
panel at upper left; background in cream with other lettering below
panel in black. Unsigned. Front flap as 299a. (*Spring 1940*)

Front flap rewritten:

> Three times winner of the Pulitzer award and in 1936 the recipient of
> the Nobel Prize for Literature, Eugene O’Neill stands pre-eminent
> among the world’s dramatists. The originality, strength and integrity
> of his plays have helped bring a new dignity to the American theatre.
> What he has done for the theatre of the reader’s imagination is
> equally noteworthy, for his dramas have been treasured by an immense
> public. The three plays in this volume are representative of the work
> done by O’Neill at the crest of his creative powers. (*Fall 1954*)

*Jacket C:* Non-pictorial in brilliant yellow (83), light bluish green
(163), yellowish gray (93) and black on coated white paper with title in
light bluish green, yellowish gray and brilliant yellow on inset black
panel; other lettering in light bluish green and black against yellow
panel at top and in reverse against light bluish green panel at foot.
Unsigned. Front flap as jacket A, rewritten text. (*Spring 1957*)

#### 299c. Title page with Fujita torchbearer; 7½ inch format (1969/70)

Title as 299b except: \[torchbearer K\].

Pagination and collation as 299b variant A. Contents as 299b variant C.
(*Spring 1967*)

*Jacket D:* Fujita non-pictorial jacket in strong greenish blue (169),
dark yellowish green (132), brilliant yellow (83) and black on coated
white paper with reproductions of three torn theater tickets in dark
yellowish green, brilliant yellow, and strong greenish blue; lettering
in black and strong greenish blue, all against white background. Front
flap as 299b jacket A rewritten text.

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span>

O’Neill, *Moon of the Caribbees and Six Other Plays of the Sea*
(1923–1940); *Long Voyage Home* (1940–1971) 101

O’Neill, *Emperor Jones; The Straw* (1928–1936) 157

O’Neill, *Nine Plays* (1941– ) G53

O’Neill, *Ah, Wilderness! and Two Other Plays* (1964–1973) 559

O’Neill, *Plays*, 3 vols. (1982– ) 624

### 300

**FERDINAND LUNDBERG. IMPERIAL HEARST. 1937–1941. (ML 81)**

#### 300. First printing (1937)

\[within double rules\] IMPERIAL HEARST | A SOCIAL BIOGRAPHY | \[rule\]
| BY | FERDINAND LUNDBERG | \[rule\] | WITH A PREFACE BY | DR. CHARLES
A. BEARD | \[rule\] | \[torchbearer A3\] | \[rule\] | THE MODERN LIBRARY
| NEW YORK

Pp. \[*2*\], \[i–vi\] vii–xvi \[xvii–xx\], \[17–18\] 19–406 \[407–410\].
\[1–13\]<sup>16</sup>

\[*1*\] half title; \[*2*\] pub. note D12; \[i\] title; \[ii\]
*Copyright,* 1936, *by* | FERDINAND LUNDBERG | \[short double rule\] |
*First Modern Library Edition* | 1937; \[iii\] biographical note; \[iv\]
blank; \[v\] dedication; \[vi\] blank; vii–x A PREFACE | and a Farewell
to William Randolph Hearst signed p. x: <span class="smallcaps">Charles
A. Beard</span> | *Washington, D.* *C.,* | *March 9, 1936*; xi–xvi
AUTHOR’S INTRODUCTION FOR THE MODERN | LIBRARY EDITION signed p. xvi:
<span class="smallcaps">Ferdinand Lundberg.</span> | *January* 7, 1937.;
\[xvii–xx\] Contents; \[17\] fly title; \[18\] blank; 19–381 text;
382–390 BIBLIOGRAPHY; 391–392 APPENDIX; 393–406 INDEX; \[407–410\]
blank. *Note:* *First* statement retained on subsequent printings, which
was typical for early titles printed by offset lithography.

*Jacket:* Pictorial in strong reddish orange (35) and black on yellow
paper with a drawing of Hearst beneath an imperial eagle decorated with
a dollar sign and swastika and holding a pen and syringe in its claws;
borders in strong reddish orange, lettering in black except statement
“The <u>UN</u>authorized biography” in strong reddish orange. Unsigned.

> Front flap:<br>
> Few men during the last half century have exercised more power upon
> our national destiny than William Randolph Hearst. What are the
> sources of his power? What are the effects? Ferdinand Lundberg’s
> factual biography reveals, with unchallengeable documents, the record
> of a life without parallel in our time. Now his book appears, complete
> and unabridged, in the Modern Library series, with a new foreword that
> includes what has occurred between the date of the last edition and
> the moment of going to press. (*Spring 1937*)

Originally published by Equinox Cooperative Press, 1936. ML edition (pp.
\[v\]–x, \[xvii–xx\], 19–390, 393–406) printed from offset plates
photographically reduced from the Equinox edition with Author’s Foreword
reset and appended to Author’s Introduction for the Modern Library
Edition, page numerals removed from contents pages, reference to
Appendix added to last page of the contents, fly title reset, part title
leaf for index (pp. \[391–92\]) replaced by Appendix (see below), and
errata page omitted. Published February 1937. *WR* 27 February 1937.
First printing: 6,000 copies. Discontinued 1 January 1942.

The ML paid Equinox Cooperative Press royalties of 10 cents a copy.
Heywood Broun, to whom the book is dedicated, agreed to write an
introduction to the ML edition but does not appear to have submitted it.
In the end Lundberg wrote the introduction himself, updating the work
with an account of Hearst’s activities from June 1936 to January 1937.
The Appendix (pp. 391–92), which discusses Al Capone’s influence in
calling off a threatened strike by the *Chicago Tribune*’s drivers and
provides additional information about the American Metal Co., does not
appear in the Equinox edition.

The ML edition was printed by the Polygraphic Co. of America following
the specifications for its offset printing of Newton, *Amenities of
Book-Collecting* (287). The plates cost $245; presswork for 6,000 copies
was $294 (C. J. Herold, Polygraphic Co. of America, to Commins, 30
December 1936).

There were two additional printings of 5,000 copies (April 1937) and
2,000 copies (September 1939). Like other ML titles printed from offset
plates at this period, the *First Modern Library Edition* statement (p.
\[ii\]) is retained in later printings. The three ML printings can be
distinguished by the list of titles printed inside the jackets: spring
1937 (246 titles); fall 1939 (265 titles).

### 301

**ROBERT GRAVES. I, CLAUDIUS. 1937–1971; 1982– . (ML 20)**

#### 301.1a. First printing (1937)

\[within double rules\] I, CLAUDIUS | FROM THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF |
TIBERIUS CLAUDIUS | BORN B.C. 10 · MURDERED AND DEIFIED A.D. 54 |
\[rule\] | BY | ROBERT GRAVES | \[rule\] | \[torchbearer A3\] | \[rule\]
| THE MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK

Pp. \[i–viii\] ix–x, \[1–2\] 3–427 \[428–430\]. \[1–13\]<sup>16</sup>
\[14\]<sup>12</sup>

\[i\] half title; \[ii\] pub. note D12; \[iii\] title; \[iv\]
*Copyright,* 1934, *by* | HARRISON SMITH AND ROBERT HAAS, INC. | \[short
double rule\] | *First Modern Library Edition* | 1937; \[v\]
biographical note; \[vi\] blank; \[vii\] epigraph from Tacitus; \[viii\]
blank; ix–x AUTHOR’S NOTE; \[1\] fly title; \[2\] blank; 3–427 text;
\[428–430\] blank.

*Jacket A:* Pictorial in black and gold on coated cream paper with
drawing of a procession led by a chariot on a gold band between two
black bands with title and other lettering in reverse; cream bands at
top and foot with author and series in black, borders in gold. Signed:
Cassens.

> Front flap:<br>
> Of all the historical novels of recent times, none has found such
> widespread public response as Robert Grave’s reconstruction of the
> grandeur and folly and fantastic sensuality of Imperial Rome. The mild
> Claudius, moving unobtrusively among his sinister relatives and
> recording their proud and vile history, unfolds a panorama of weird
> intrigue and startling events. Poison, blasphemy, incest, black magic
> and unnatural vice flourish with a fine disdain for the good opinion
> of history. Such worthies as Caligula, Nero and Messalina come to life
> in a book as historically accurate as it is enthralling. (*Spring
> 1937*)

Originally published in U.S. by Harrison Smith and Robert Haas, 1934. ML
edition (301.1) printed from plates made from a new typesetting.
Published February 1937. *WR* 27 February 1937. First printing: Not
ascertained. Discontinued 1971/72; restored to ML 1982.

The Smith and Haas typesetting was too large for the ML’s format and
included a folding genealogical table of the Imperial family that was
omitted from the ML edition. By reducing the type size the ML was able
produce a volume that was 67 pages shorter than the Smith and Haas
edition. The ML plates were also used for a Grosset & Dunlap printing
which retained the biographical note (p. \[v\]) written for the ML.

*I, Claudius* sold 5,215 copies during the eighteen-month period May
1942–October 1943, placing it high in the third quarter of ML and Giant
titles. It did not rank among the 100 best-selling titles in the regular
ML during the twelve-month period November 1951–October 1952. By June
1964 the ML had printed 89,000 copies (Higginson, p. 56).

#### 301.1b. Title page reset (c. 1940)

I, CLAUDIUS | FROM THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF | TIBERIUS CLAUDIUS | BORN B.C.
10 | MURDERED AND DEIFIED A.D. 54 | BY | ROBERT GRAVES | \[torchbearer
D4\] | \[rule\] | THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK | \[rule\]

Pagination as 301.1a except: \[428–438\]. \[1–14\]<sup>16</sup>

Contents as 301.1a except: \[ii\] blank; \[iv\] COPYRIGHT, 1934, | BY
HARRISON SMITH AND ROBERT HAAS, INC.; \[428\] blank; \[429–434\] ML
list; \[435–436\] ML Giants list; \[437–438\] blank. (*Spring 1944*)

*Jacket B:* Enlarged version of 301.1a on coated white paper. (*Spring
1944*)

**301.2. New bibliographical edition; reissue format (1982)**

ROBERT GRAVES | \[title in reverse within single rules in reverse all on
black rectangular panel\] I, CLAUDIUS | \[below panel\] FROM THE
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF | TIBERIUS CLAUDIUS | BORN <span
class="smallcaps">10</span> B.C. | MURDERED AND DEIFIED A.D. <span
class="smallcaps">54</span> | \[torchbearer N\] | MODERN LIBRARY | NEW
YORK

Pp. \[*10*\], \[1–3\] 4–432 \[433–438\]. Perfect bound.

\[*1*–*2*\] blank; \[*3*\] woodcut of Claudius by Stephen Alcorn;
\[*4*\] blank; \[*5*\] title; \[*6*\] MODERN LIBRARY EDITION OCTOBER
1982 | Copyright © 1934 by Harrison Smith and Robert Haas, Inc. |
Copyright renewed, 1961, by Robert Graves.; \[*7*\] epigraph from
Tacitus; \[*8*\] blank; \[*9*–*10*\] AUTHOR’S NOTE; \[1\] woodcut of
Claudius; \[2\] blank; \[3\]–432 text; \[433–438\] blank.

*Jacket C:* Pictorial in strong reddish brown (40) and black on kraft
paper with inset woodcut illustration of Claudius by Stephen Alcorn.

> Front flap:<br>
> Tiberius Claudius Drusus Nero Germanicus lived from 10 B.C. to A.D.
> 54. Despised as a weakling and considered an idiot because of his
> physical infirmities, Claudius survived the intrigues and poisonings
> of the reigns of Augustus, Tiberius, and the mad Caligula to become
> emperor in A.D. 41. *I, Claudius*, written in the form of Claudius’
> autobiography, unfolds a panorama of startling events in this
> scandalous era. Violence, blasphemy, incest, black magic and vice
> flourish with a fine disdain for the good opinion of history in a book
> that is one of the classics of modern fiction, and the best fictional
> reconstruction of Rome ever written.

New typesetting originally made for Vintage Books, 1961. ML edition
(301.2, pp. \[*7–10*\], \[3\]–432) printed from offset lithographic
plates made from the Vintage typesetting with running heads (title and
page numeral on versos, page numeral only on rectos) reset. Published
fall 1982 at $8.95. ISBN 0-394-60811-9.

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span>

Graves, *Claudius the God* (1982) 626

### 302

**D. H. LAWRENCE. WOMEN IN LOVE. 1937–1990. (ML 68)**

#### 302a. First printing (1937)

\[within double rules\] WOMEN IN LOVE | \[rule\] | BY | D. H. LAWRENCE |
\[rule\] | WITH A FOREWORD BY THE AUTHOR | \[rule\] | \[torchbearer A3\]
| \[rule\] | THE MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK

Pp. \[i–vi\] vii–x \[xi–xii\], 7–548 \[549–554\]. \[1–17\]<sup>16</sup>
\[18\]<sup>8</sup> *Women in Love* had a binding measuring 6⅞ x 4⅝
inches (175 x 117 mm) and leaves trimmed to 6¾ x 4½ inches (170 x 113
mm)

\[i\] half title; \[ii\] pub. note D12; \[iii\] title; \[iv\]
*Copyright,* 1920, 1922, *by* D. H. LAWRENCE | \[short double rule\] |
*First Modern Library Edition* | 1937; \[v\] acknowledgment; \[vi\]
blank; vii–viii biographical note; ix–x FOREWORD | By <span
class="smallcaps">D. H. Lawrence</span> dated p. x: Hermitage | 12
September, 1919; \[xi\] CONTENTS; \[xii\] blank; 7–548 text; \[549–554\]
blank.

*Jacket* *A:* Non-pictorial in strong yellowish green (131), very light
yellowish green (134) and black on pale yellow green paper with title in
reverse on black panel inset against very light yellowish green panel;
borders in strong yellowish green, other lettering in black including
author and series against pale yellow green bands at top and foot.
Unsigned.

> Front flap:<br>
> To judge by the avalanche of biographies, memoirs and critical works
> which have appeared since his death, no writer of our time has had a
> more profound influence on his contemporaries than D. H. Lawrence.
> Among his own novels, *Sons and Lovers* (No. 109) and *The Rainbow*
> (No. 128) have maintained his reputation as the grand inquisitor into
> the dark labyrinths of the human soul. Now *Women in Love* takes its
> place by their side in the Modern Library series as the third of his
> novels dealing with the physical and mystical urgency of love.
> (*Spring 1937*)

Originally published in New York by Thomas Seltzer in a “privately
printed” edition of 1250 copies for subscribers only, with 50 copies
signed by Lawrence, 1920. Trade edition, printed from plates made from a
new typesetting, published in U.S. by Seltzer, 1922; publishing rights
and plates subsequently acquired by Viking Press. ML edition (pp.
\[xi\]–548) printed from Seltzer/Viking plates. Published April 1937.
*WR* 24 April 1937. First printing: 5,000 copies. Discontinued 1990.

Lawrence’s foreword was originally published in 1920 as an advertising
leaflet for Seltzer’s first printing of *Women in Love* (Roberts, p.
39). The acknowledgment on p. \[v\] of the ML edition states, “The
manuscript of the Foreword for this volume is in the possession of the
Stanford University Library. It is published here by courtesy of Gelber,
Lilienthal, Inc., of San Francisco.”

*Women in Love* sold 4,736 copies during the eighteen-month period May
1942–October 1943, placing it in the third quarter of ML and Giant
titles. During the same period the ML editions of *Sons and Lovers* (99)
and *The Rainbow* (138) sold 6,808 copies and 3,565 copies respectively.
*Women in Love* sold 3,313 copies during the twelve-month period
November 1951–October 1952, making it ninety-sixth out of the 100
best-selling titles in the regular ML.

#### 302b. Title page reset (c. 1941)

\[torchbearer E3\] | \[7-line title and statement of responsibility
within single rules\] WOMEN | IN | LOVE | BY | D. H. LAWRENCE | WITH A
FOREWORD BY | THE AUTHOR | \[below frame\] MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK

Pagination and collation as 302a.

Contents as 302a except: \[ii\] blank; \[iv\] COPYRIGHT, 1920, 1922, BY
D. H. LAWRENCE; \[549–554\] ML list. (*Spring 1946*)

> *Variant A:* Pagination as 302a. \[1\]<sup>16</sup>
> \[2–7\]<sup>32</sup> \[8\]<sup>24</sup> \[9\]<sup>32</sup>
> \[10\]<sup>16</sup>. Contents as 302b except: \[iv\] 2nd line added:
> COPYRIGHT, 1948, 1950, BY FRIEDA LAWRENCE. (*Spring 1957*)
>
> *Variant B:* Pagination and collation as variant A. Contents as 302b
> except: \[iv\] 2nd line revised: COPYRIGHT, 1947, 1949 BY FRIEDA
> LAWRENCE; \[549–550\] ML Giants list; \[551–554\] blank. (*Spring
> 1967*) *Note:* The publication date of variant B is later than spring
> 1967. Variant A exists in a late printing with the spring 1967 Giants
> list and the spring 1967 format of 1960s binding C with tan Kent
> endpapers.

*Jacket B:* Pictorial in light greenish blue (172) and black on white
paper depicting a factory with a tall smokestack emitting smoke into a
sky streaked with white cirrus and cumulus clouds; title and author in
black with title on diagonal axis and series in reverse, all against
light greenish blue background. Signed: E. McKnight Kauffer. Front flap
as 302a. (*Spring 1946*)

Front flap revised:

> During his brief but stormy and prolific writing career and in the
> years following his death in 1930, D. H. Lawrence stirred up many
> fierce literary controversies. An avalanche of biographies, memoirs
> and critical works showed how much partisanship and antagonism he
> inspired among his contemporaries. Now, in the perspective of a
> quarter of a century, three of his novels, *Sons and Lovers* (No.
> 109), *The Rainbow* (No. 128) and *Women in Love* (No. 68), offer the
> best testimony to clarify his position as a writer who explored the
> darker labyrinths of the human soul. *Women in Love*, particularly, is
> characteristic of Lawrence’s work dealing with the physical and
> mystical urgency of love. (*Spring 1956*)

#### 302c. 7½ inch format (1969/70)

Title as 302b.

Pagination, collation and contents as 302b variant B.

*Jacket C:* Enlarged version of 302b with factory and lettering against
solid light greenish blue (172) background without clouds; Fujita “ml”
symbol added, Kaufer signature and series name omitted. Front flap as
302b revised text.

#### 302d. Reissue format (1977)

\[7-line title and statement of responsibility within single rules\]
WOMEN | IN | LOVE | BY | D. H. LAWRENCE | WITH A FOREWORD BY | THE
AUTHOR | \[below frame\] \[torchbearer M\] | MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK

Pagination as 302a. Perfect bound.

Contents as 302a except: \[ii\] blank; \[iv\] COPYRIGHT, 1920, 1922, BY
D. H. LAWRENCE | COPYRIGHT, 1948, 1950, BY FRIEDA LAWRENCE.

*Jacket D:* Non-pictorial on kraft paper with lettering in dark reddish
brown (44) and torchbearer in deep brown (56). Designed by R. D.
Scudellari.

> Front flap:<br>
> Although *Lady Chatterley’s Lover* is probably Lawrence’s most famous
> novel, *Women in Love* is unquestionably one of his two or three
> finest. Many critics in fact believe that it is the most profound
> investigation of his lifelong preoccupation with the relationships
> between the sexes and between man and nature. The story of two
> sisters, Ursula and Gudrun, and their love affairs with Birkin and
> Gerald, it contrasts the two relationships—Gudrun and Gerald’s, which
> is icy, sterile and doomed; and Ursula and Birkin’s, which is fruitful
> and transcendent.

Published fall 1977 at $5.95. ISBN 0-394-60442-3.

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span>

Lawrence, *Sons and Lovers* (1923–1959; 1962–1990) 99

Lawrence, *The Rainbow* (1927–1971; 1980–1990) 138

Lawrence, *Lady Chatterley’s Lover* (1960–1990) 519

### 303

**CHARLES READE. THE CLOISTER AND THE HEARTH. 1937–1970. (ML 62)**

#### 303a. First printing (1937)

\[within double rules\] THE CLOISTER | AND THE HEARTH | A TALE OF THE
MIDDLE AGES | \[rule\] | BY | CHARLES READE | \[rule\] | \[torchbearer
A2\] | \[rule\] | THE MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK

Pp. \[*6*\], \[1–4\] 5–913 \[914–922\]. \[1–28\]<sup>16</sup>
\[29–30\]<sup>8</sup>

\[*1*\] half title; \[*2*\] pub. note D12; \[*3*\] title; \[*4*\] *First
Modern Library Edition* | 1937 | \[short double rule\]; \[*5*\]
biographical note; \[*6*\] blank; \[1\] PREFACE; \[2\] blank; \[3\] fly
title; \[4\] blank; 5–913 text; \[914\] blank; \[915–919\] ML list;
\[920\] ML Giants list; \[921–922\] blank. (*Spring 1937*)

*Jacket A:* Non-pictorial in vivid reddish orange (34) and black on
cream paper with title in reverse on inset black panel; rules and other
lettering in cream, all against vivid reddish orange background.
Unsigned.

> Front flap:<br>
> For three-quarters of a century *The Cloister and the Hearth* has been
> recognized as one of the finest historical novels in existence. It
> takes its place in the Modern Library series at a moment when
> novelists the world over are occupied with the theme which dominated
> all of Charles Reade’s works: the fierce protest against social
> injustice. *The Cloister and the Hearth* assumes even greater
> significance today than at any time since it appeared in 1861.
> (*Spring 1937*)

ML edition printed from plates made from a new typesetting. Published
April 1937. *WR* 24 April 1937. First printing: Not ascertained.
Discontinued 1970/71.

*The Cloister and the Hearth* sold 2,742 copies during the
eighteen-month period May 1942–October 1943, placing it in the fourth
quarter of ML and Giant titles. It was not among the 100 best-selling
titles in the regular ML during the twelve-month period November
1951–October 1952.

#### 303b. Title page reset (1940)

The Cloister | and the Hearth | A TALE | OF THE MIDDLE AGES | by |
CHARLES READE | \[torchbearer D4 at right; 3-line imprint at left\] THE
| MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK | \[rule\]

Pagination and collation as 303a.

Contents as 303a except: \[*2*\] blank; \[*4*\] publication and
manufacturing statements; \[920–921\] ML Giants list; \[922\] blank.
(*Fall 1940*)

*Jacket B:* Non-pictorial in dark green (146) and dark gray (266) on
cream paper with title and author in reverse on inset dark green panel;
background in dark gray with series and torchbearer in reverse above
inset panel. Unsigned. Front flap as 303a. (*Fall 1940*)

Front flap revised:

> For more than three-quarters of a century *The Cloister and the
> Hearth* has been acknowledged as one of the finest historical novels
> in English literature. It stands comparison with the best of the works
> of fiction in its genre and has outlived most of them. Because the
> theme which dominated all of Charles Reade’s writings—a fierce protest
> against social injustice—is never out of style, *The Cloister and the
> Hearth* has as great a significance today as it has had at any time
> since it appeared originally in 1861. (*Spring 1959*)

***Fall***

### 304

**JOHN STEINBECK. TORTILLA FLAT. 1937–1971. (ML 216)**

#### 304a. First printing (1937)

\[within double rules\] TORTILLA FLAT | \[rule\] | BY | JOHN STEINBECK |
\[rule\] | WITH A FOREWORD BY THE AUTHOR | \[rule\] | ILLUSTRATED BY |
RUTH GANNETT | \[rule\] | \[torchbearer A3\] | \[rule\] | THE MODERN
LIBRARY | NEW YORK

Pp. \[*8*\], \[i–iv\] v–vi \[7–8\] 9–316 \[317–320\].
\[1–10\]<sup>16</sup> \[11\]<sup>4</sup>

\[*1*\] half title; \[*2*\] pub. note D18; \[*3*\] title; \[*4*\]
*Copyright,* 1935, *by* <span class="smallcaps">John Steinbeck</span> |
*Foreword Copyright,* 1937, *by* RANDOM HOUSE, INC.; \[*5*\] dedication;
\[*6*\] blank; \[*7*\] biographical note; \[*8*\] blank; \[i–iii\]
FOREWORD signed p. \[iii\]: <span class="smallcaps">John
Steinbeck.</span> | <span class="smallcaps">June</span>, 1937.; \[iv\]
blank; v–vi CHAPTER HEADINGS; \[7\] fly title; \[8\] blank; 9–\[317\]
text; \[318–320\] blank.

*Jacket A:* Pictorial in vivid reddish orange (34) and deep blue (179)
on coated white paper depicting a man in wide-brimmed hat with bay in
distance; title in reverse highlighted in deep blue, other lettering in
deep blue, all against vivid reddish orange background. Spine panel in
deep blue with lettering in reverse. Designed by Paul Galdone, July
1937; unsigned.

> Front flap:<br>
> Long before *Of Mice and Men* became a best-seller and thrust its
> author into the national limelight, John Steinbeck had built a solid
> reputation upon his novel, *Tortilla Flat*. This carefree tale of the
> exploits of three lovable rogues won the unanimous praise of critics
> and reading public alike. Now it is included in the Modern Library
> series, partly as a tribute to the novel’s own enchantment and partly
> because John Steinbeck has earned the right to a place in a library of
> the foremost writers of our time. (*Fall 1937*)

Originally published in U.S. by Covici, Friede, 1935; publishing rights
and plates subsequently acquired by Viking Press. ML edition (pp.
v–\[317\]) printed from Covici, Friede (later Covici, Friede/Viking)
plates. Published September 1937. *WR* 25 September 1937. First
printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued 1971/72.

Steinbeck’s foreword begins: “When this book was written, it did not
occur to me that paisanos were curious or quaint, dispossessed or
underdoggish. They are people whom I know and like, people who merge
successfully with their habitat. . . . Had I known that these stories
and these people would be considered quaint, I think I never should have
written them” (p. \[i\]). When he submitted the foreword he told Cerf,
“It is the only thing I want to say. If it won’t do—throw it out and
have someone else do it. This is not a clever introduction” (Steinbeck
to Cerf, undated but probably June 1937). He also asked that the ML
edition be dedicated to Susan Gregory of Monterey. The dedication was
retained in later Viking printings.

Subsequent printings of the ML edition include the following: 3,000
copies (August 1938); 3,000 copies (July 1939); 5,000 copies (December
1939); 2,000 copies (July 1941); 6,000 copies (December 1942). *Tortilla
Flat* sold 13,432 copies during the eighteen-month period May
1942–October 1943, making it the fourth best-selling title in the
regular series and thirteenth out of 281 ML and Giant titles. The
unusually strong sales of *Tortilla Flat* at this period may have been
stimulated by the release of the 1942 film version starring Spencer
Tracy and Hedy Lamarr.

During the same period *The Grapes of Wrath* (341) ranked in the first
quarter of ML and Giant titles with sales of 9,495 copies. *Of Mice and
Men* (311) and *In Dubious Battle* (322) were in the second quarter with
sales of 7,020 copies and 6,028 copies respectively. By the early 1950s
(November 1951–October 1952) *The Grapes of Wrath* was the only
Steinbeck title among the 100 best-selling titles in the regular ML.

#### 304b. Title page reset (c. 1941)

Tortilla Flat | BY JOHN STEINBECK | WITH A FOREWORD BY THE AUTHOR |
ILLUSTRATED BY RUTH GANNETT | \[torchbearer D1 at right; 3-line imprint
at left\] THE | MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK | \[rule\]

Pagination and collation as 304a.

Contents as 304a except: \[*2*\] blank; \[*4*\] COPYRIGHT, 1935, BY JOHN
STEINBECK | FOREWORD COPYRIGHT, 1937, | BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC.

> *Variant:* Pagination as 304a except: \[317–328\].
> \[1–10\]<sup>16</sup> \[11\]<sup>8</sup>. Contents as 304b except:
> \[318\] blank; \[319–324\] ML list; \[325–326\] ML Giants list;
> \[327–328\] blank. (*Spring 1944*)

*Jacket B:* Enlarged version of 304a with highlighting in white redone.
(*Fall 1942*)

#### 304c. Title page with Fujita torchbearer; 7½ inch format (1969/70)

Title as 304b except: \[torchbearer K\].

Pagination as 304b variant. \[1–8\]<sup>16</sup> \[9\]<sup>8</sup>
\[10–11\]<sup>16</sup>. Contents as 304b variant except: \[319–326\] ML
list; \[327–328\] ML Giants list. (*Spring 1967*)

*Jacket C:* Fujita non-pictorial jacket in black, vivid yellow (82) and
red on coated white paper with lettering shaded from vivid yellow
flecked with red at top to solid red at foot, all against black
background.

> Front flap:<br>
> *Tortilla Flat*, which appeared in 1935, was the first of Steinbeck’s
> novels to receive wide attention. He was disturbed by the response to
> this portrait of a group of carefree *paisanos* in a Monterey slum,
> writing two years later that “I shall never again subject to the
> vulgar touch of the *decent* these good people of laughter and
> kindness, of honest lusts and direct eyes, of courtesy beyond
> politeness.” If today, Steinbeck’s own view of Danny and his friends
> seems to some shallow and condescending, that is a measure of the time
> in which he wrote and the impact of his writing on the change in our
> attitudes. Steinbeck tells this story with warmth and liveliness, and
> it remains a document of a period when even this glimpse of a
> different slice of life could be considered shocking.

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span>

Steinbeck, *Of Mice and Men* (1938– ) 311

Steinbeck, *In Dubious Battle* (1939–1971) 322

Steinbeck, *Grapes of Wrath* (1941–1959) 341

### 305

**HENRY DAVID THOREAU. WALDEN AND OTHER WRITINGS. 1937– . (ML 155)**

#### 305a. First printing (1937)

\[within double rules\] WALDEN | AND OTHER WRITINGS OF | HENRY DAVID
THOREAU | \[rule\] | EDITED, WITH AN INTRODUCTION, BY | BROOKS ATKINSON
| \[rule\] | \[torchbearer A3\] | \[rule\] | THE MODERN LIBRARY | NEW
YORK

Pp. \[i–iv\] v–xx, \[1–2\] 3–732. \[1–23\]<sup>16</sup>
\[24\]<sup>8</sup>

\[i\] half title; \[ii\] pub. note D12; \[iii\] title; \[iv\]
*Introduction copyright,* 1937, | *by* <span class="smallcaps">Random
House, Inc</span>. | \[short double rule\]; v–vi CONTENTS; vii–xx
INTRODUCTION | *By* <span class="smallcaps">Brooks Atkinson</span> dated
p. xx: <span class="smallcaps">New York City</span>, | *March,* 1937.;
\[1\] part title: WALDEN; \[2\] blank; 3–732 text.

*Contents:* Walden – A Week on the Concord and Merrimack Rivers
(selections) – Cape Cod (selections) – The Allegash and East Branch
(condensation) – Walking – Civil Disobedience – Slavery in Massachusetts
– A Plea for Captain John Brown – Life without Principle.

*Jacket A1:* Pictorial in moderate yellowish green (136), pale greenish
yellow (104), dark gray (266), black and gold on coated white paper
depicting a small figure gazing at a pond under a canopy of towering
trees with low mountains and clouds in the distance; title and author in
black and reverse on inset gold panel bordered in black, other lettering
in black, all against pale greenish yellow background; bands on spine
and flaps in strong green (141). Designed by Paul Galdone, July 1937;
unsigned.

> Front flap:<br>
> To collect the representative writings of Henry David Thoreau within a
> volume of seven hundred and fifty pages has long been the ambition of
> the directors of the Modern Library. Now that ambition has been
> fulfilled, thanks to the selection made by the editor, Brooks
> Atkinson, who also contributes a penetrating critical and biographical
> introduction. This volume contains, besides *Walden*, the essays
> *Civil Disobedience*, *Slavery in Massachusetts, A Plea for Captain
> John Brown, Life Without Principle* and many of the famous nature
> studies. (*Fall 1937*)

Original ML collection. Published September 1937. *WR* 25 September
1937. First printing: Not ascertained.

The ML and Houghton Mifflin Co. both published Thoreau collections in
September 1937. When the ML edition was announced, Robert Linscott of
Houghton Mifflin told Klopfer that his firm was “rather daunted” by the
news. Houghton Mifflin had thought that the ML was giving up its
collection and would have abandoned *The Works of Thoreau*, an 872-page
volume edited by Henry Seidel Canby, if it had known the ML was going
ahead. The Houghton Mifflin collection included selections from
Thoreau’s journals, which were still protected by copyright and had not
been available to the ML. Linscott offered to lease the plates of
Canby’s volume to the ML within eighteen months if the ML gave up its
volume (Linscott to Klopfer, 7 July 1937). Klopfer replied that the ML
had changed its plans as much as it could when the conflict was
discovered and expressed the hope that the two books would not interfere
with each other (Klopfer to Linscott, 8 July 1937).

When the Viking Portable Thoreau appeared in 1949, Brooks Atkinson told
Cerf that it was “such a good job that your Modern Library Thoreau
volume is behind the eight-ball.” He suggested replacing the selections
from *A Week on the Concord and Merrimack Rivers* on pp. 301–436 with
the complete work (Atkinson to Cerf, 4 March 1949). Commins replied that
he hoped Atkinson would allow the ML edition to remain unchanged. The
complete text of *A Week on the Concord and Merrimack Rivers*, he noted,
would add 200 pages to the collection, at a resetting cost of around
$2,000; changing the page numerals from p. 437 to the end would cost an
additional $200 or $300 (Commins to Atkinson, 1 April 1949). The ML
never acted on Atkinson’s suggestion.

*Walden and Other Writings* sold over 6,000 copies by early 1939 (Cerf
to Robert Lamont, Atlantic Monthly Press, 26 May 1939). It sold 11,558
copies during the eighteen-month period May 1942–October 1943, making it
the ninth best-selling title in the regular ML. During the twelve-month
period November 1951–October 1952 it sold 5,694 copies, making it the
regular ML’s thirty-second best-selling title.

#### 305b. Title page reset (c. 1941)

WALDEN | AND OTHER WRITINGS OF | HENRY | DAVID | THOREAU | EDITED WITH
AN INTRODUCTION | BY BROOKS ATKINSON | \[torchbearer D4\] | \[rule\] |
THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK | \[rule\]

Pagination and collation as 305a.

Contents as 305a except: \[ii\] blank; \[iv\] INTRODUCTION COPYRIGHT,
1937, | BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC.

> *Variant:* Pagination as 305a except: \[733–740\].
> \[1–23\]<sup>16</sup> \[24\]<sup>12</sup>. Contents as 305b except:
> \[733–738\] ML list; \[739–740\] ML Giants list. (*Fall 1947*)

*Jacket A2:* Enlarged version of 305a. (*Spring 1942*)

#### 305c. Scudder foreword added (1950)

WALDEN | AND OTHER WRITINGS OF | HENRY DAVID THOREAU | EDITED, WITH AN
INTRODUCTION, | BY BROOKS ATKINSON | FOREWORD BY TOWNSEND SCUDDER |
PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH, SWARTHMORE COLLEGE | \[torchbearer E5\] | *THE
MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK*

Pp. \[i–iv\] v–xxiv, \[1–2\] 3–732 \[733–736\]. \[1–22\]<sup>16</sup>
\[23\]<sup>12</sup> \[24\]<sup>16</sup>

Contents as 305a except: \[ii\] blank; \[iv\] *Copyright, 1937, 1950, by
Random House, Inc.*; v CONTENTS with Scudder foreword added; vii–viii
FOREWORD | *By* T<span class="smallcaps">ownsend</span> S<span
class="smallcaps">cudder</span>; ix–xxii INTRODUCTION | *By* <span
class="smallcaps">Brooks Atkinson</span> with place and date (“<span
class="smallcaps">New York City</span>, | *March*, 1937”) omitted from
p. xx; xxiii–xxiv BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE signed: T. S.; \[733–736\] blank.

> *Variant*: Pagination as 305c except: \[733–744\]. \[1\]<sup>16</sup>
> \[2–12\]<sup>32</sup> \[13\]<sup>16</sup>. Contents as 305c except:
> \[733–738\] ML list; \[739–740\] ML Giants list; \[741–744\] blank.
> (*Fall 1956*)

*Jacket B:* As 305b. (*Spring 1953*) Front flap reset with the words
“complete and unabridged,” added in the last sentence after “*Walden.”*
(*Spring 1956*)

Originally published 1950 in MLCE and subsequently in the regular ML.
Scudder received $75 for his foreword and bibliography (Stein to
Scudder, 26 January 1950).

**305d. Title page with Fujita torchbearer; 7½ inch format; offset
printing (1969/70)**

Title as 305c through line 6; lines 7–8: \[torchbearer K\] | *THE MODERN
LIBRARY · NEW YORK.*

Pagination as 305c variant. \[1–12\]<sup>32</sup>

Contents as 305c except: \[iv\] MODERN LIBRARY EDITION, September 1937 |
Copyright, 1937, 1950, renewed 1965 by Random House, Inc.; v CONTENTS as
305a without indication of Scudder foreword; ix–xxii INTRODUCTION | *By*
<span class="smallcaps">Brooks Atkinson</span> dated as 305a, p. xx;
\[733–740\] ML list; \[741–742\] ML Giants list; \[743–744\] blank.
(*Spring 1967*) *Note:* The ML appears to have photographed the table of
contents and a copy of 305a or 305b for its offset plates.

*Jacket C:* Fujita pictorial jacket in deep brown (56), strong red (12)
and black on coated white paper with inset reproduction of B. D.
Maxham’s daguerreotype portrait of Thoreau (1856) in black and deep
brown; lettering in reverse, strong red and deep brown, all against
black background.

> Front flap:<br>
> Henry David Thoreau’s vision of personal freedom—the concept that
> moral law and the dictates of the individual conscience are superior
> to civil law and governmental statutes—has become part of the American
> heritage, particularly pertinent to our own times. Thoreau spent his
> life listening to “a different drummer,” and in following his belief
> that the individual could lead a life of simplicity and independence
> apart from social organization and material civilization, he
> anticipated one of the major themes of contemporary America. His
> writings communicate his thoughts and offer us his personal vision of
> life as well as its tranformation \[*sic*\] into a practical working
> philosophy on which he based his life style.
>
> This volume contains the full text of *Walden* as well as the essays
> *Civil Disobedience, Slavery in Massachusetts, A Plea for Captain John
> Brown, Life Without Principle*, and many of the famous nature studies.
> The editor, Brooks Atkinson, has contributed a penetrating critical
> and biographical introduction.

The offset plates for the text, contents pages, and introduction were
photographically reproduced from a printing of 305a or 305b. Atkinson’s
introduction is repaginated to correspond with 305c but the place and
date of composition (omitted from 305c) is restored. The table of
contents does not reflect the revised front matter of 305c–d: Scudder’s
foreword is not listed at all, and Atkinson’s introduction is shown as
beginning on p. vii.

#### 305e. Reissue format (1977)

Title as 305d.

Pagination as 305d. Perfect bound.

Contents, including the outdated title page, as 305d; \[733–744\] blank.

*Jacket D:* Non-pictorial on kraft paper with lettering in dark grayish
red (20) and torchbearer in dark brown (159). Designed by R. D.
Scudellari. Front flap as 305d with spelling of “transformation”
corrected.

Published spring 1977 at $6.95. ISBN 0-394-60421-0.

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span>

Thoreau, *Walden* (1946–1947) Illus ML 19

### 306

**VIRGINIA WOOLF. TO THE LIGHTHOUSE. 1937–1948. (ML 217)**

#### 306a. First printing (1937)

\[within double rules\] TO | THE LIGHTHOUSE | \[rule\] | BY | VIRGINIA
WOOLF | \[rule\] | WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY | TERENCE HOLLIDAY | \[rule\]
| \[torchbearer A2\] | \[rule\] | THE MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK

Pp. \[i–iv\] v–xiii \[xiv\], \[5–8\] 9–310. \[1–10\]<sup>16</sup>

\[i\] half title; \[ii\] pub. note D12; \[iii\] title; \[iv\]
*Introduction Copyright,* 1937, *by* | *Random House, Inc.* | \[short
double rule\] | *First Modern Library Edition* | 1937; v–xiii
INTRODUCTION | *by* <span class="smallcaps">Terence Holliday</span>;
\[xiv\] blank; \[5\] *Contents*; \[6\] blank; \[7\] part title: *The
Window*; \[8\] blank; 9–310 text.

*Jacket A1:* Pictorial in deep blue (179), moderate blue (182), light
bluish gray (190), dark gray (266) and black on coated white paper
depicting a lighthouse on an outcropping of land surrounded by water and
with a shoreline in the distance; lettering in black. Spine panel in
deep blue with lettering in reverse. Designed by Paul Galdone, July
1937; unsigned.

> Front flap:<br>
> The mastery with which Virginia Woolf has achieved such novels and
> books of essays as *Mrs. Dalloway* (No. 96), *To the Lighthouse*, *The
> Common Reader* and *A Room of One’s Own* has at last brought her the
> public tribute of having a national best-seller in *The Years*. *To
> the Lighthouse* is in Mrs. Woolf’s best vein, quiet \[*sic*\]
> evocative, full of the interplay of human emotion. In addition, its
> autobiographical *note* throws light upon her own family, one of the
> most illustrious in England. (*Fall 1937*)

Originally published in U.S. by Harcourt, Brace & Co., 1927. ML edition
(pp. \[5\]–310) printed from Harcourt, Brace plates. Published September
1937. *WR* 25 September 1937. First printing: 5,000 copies. Discontinued
fall 1948.

Total ML sales of *To the Lighthouse* were 38,000 copies (Kirkpatrick,
*Virginia Woolf*, p. 31). *To the Lighthouse* sold 3,203 copies during
the eighteen-month period May 1942–October 1943, placing it in the
fourth quarter of ML and Giant titles. *Mrs. Dalloway* (168) sold 4,271
copies during the same period.

Harcourt, Brace decided in 1948 to launch its own hardbound reprint
series, Harbrace Modern Classics, in response to the burgeoning college
market. It served notice that it was terminating the ML’s reprint
contracts for *To the Lighthouse*, *Mrs. Dalloway*, and seven other
titles, including works by E. M. Forster, Sinclair Lewis, Katherine Anne
Porter, and Lytton Strachey (S. Spencer Scott, Harcourt, Brace, to ML,
18 May 1948). At that time the ML had only a few copies of *To the
Lighthouse* in stock; Klopfer estimated that it would take two months
for the stock to sell out (Klopfer to Scott, 3 June and 28 June 1948).

#### 306b. Title page reset (1940)

TO THE | LIGHTHOUSE | BY | VIRGINIA WOOLF | WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY |
TERENCE HOLLIDAY | \[torchbearer D1 at right; 3-line imprint at left\]
THE | MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK | \[rule\]

Pagination and collation as 306a.

Contents as 306a except: \[ii\] blank; \[iv\] INTRODUCTION COPYRIGHT,
1937, | BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC.

> *Variant:* Pagination and collation as 306a. Contents as 306b except:
> \[iv\] 3rd line added: COPYRIGHT, 1927, | BY HARCOURT, BRACE AND
> COMPANY, INC. (*Fall 1942 jacket*)

*Jacket A2:* Enlarged version of 306a. (*Spring 1940*)

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span>

Woolf, *Mrs. Dalloway* (1928–1949) 168

### 307

**JOHN DOS PASSOS. THE 42nd PARALLEL. 1937–1940. (ML 88)**

#### 307. First printing (1937)

\[within double rules\] THE 42<span
class="smallcaps"><sup>nd</sup></span> | PARALLEL | \[rule\] | BY | JOHN
\` | \[rule\] | WITH AN INTRODUCTORY NOTE BY THE AUTHOR | \[rule\] |
\[torchbearer A2\] | \[rule\] | THE MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK

Pp. \[i–iv\] v–ix \[x\], v–ix \[x\], \[1–2\] 3–415 \[416\].
\[1–13\]<sup>16</sup> \[14\]<sup>8</sup>. Binding: 6⅞ x 4½ in. (175 x
114 mm); leaves trimmed to 6¾ x 4⅜ inches (170 x 110 mm).

\[i\] half title; \[ii\] pub. note D12; \[iii\] title; \[iv\]
*Copyright,* 1930, *by* <span class="smallcaps">John Dos Passos</span> |
*Introductory Note Copyright,* 1937, *by* | <span
class="smallcaps">Random House, Inc.</span> | \[short double rule\] |
*First Modern Library Edition* | 1937; v biographical note; \[vi\]
blank; vii–ix INTRODUCTORY NOTE | *<span class="smallcaps">B</span>y*
<span class="smallcaps">John Dos Passos</span> dated p. ix: <span
class="smallcaps">Provincetown,</span> July, 1937.; \[x\] blank; v–ix
CONTENTS; \[x\] blank; \[1\] fly title; \[2\] blank; 3–415 text; \[416\]
blank.

*Jacket:* Non-pictorial in vivid red (11) and black on coated white
paper with “42” in large black numerals bordered in white, “The” and
“nd” in reverse at top, “PARALLEL” in black against red background on
upper half of inset diagonal panel overlapping base of numerals, author
in black against white background on lower half of inset panel, all
against black background ruled horizontally in red. Designed by Paul
Galdone, July 1937; unsigned.

> Front flap:<br>
> When the completed trilogy, *U. S. A.*, of which *The 42nd Parallel*
> is the introductory novel, will have been published in the Modern
> Library, John Dos Passos will have gained the distinction of being
> represented by four titles in the series. *Three Soldiers* (No. 205),
> his war novel, has been in active demand for years. Following the
> publication of *The 42nd Parallel*, *1919* and *The Big Money* will be
> issued in successive seasons. By this plan, John Dos Passos’ original
> intention of maintaining the unity of the three novels will be
> fulfilled. (*Fall 1937*)

Originally published by Harper & Brothers, 1930; rights subsequently
acquired by Harcourt, Brace & Co. ML edition of *The 42nd Parallel*
printed from plates made from a new Harcourt, Brace typesetting with
revisions by the author. The plates were subsequently used for the
one-volume edition of *U.S.A.* published by Harcourt, Brace in January
1938 and reprinted in ML Giants in 1939. Published 10 November 1937.
*WR* 13 November 1937. First printing: 5,000 copies. Discontinued fall
1940 after the ML published *U.S.A.* as a Giant (G42).

The ML signed a contract with Harcourt, Brace to publish *The 42nd
Parallel*, *Nineteen Nineteen*, and *The Big Money* in the regular ML in
the fall seasons of 1937, 1938, and 1939 (Cerf to Dos Passos, 23 June
1937). The ML appears to have offered a $1,000 advance against royalties
of 10 cents a copy for each volume. Cerf indicated after signing the
reprint contract, “I am really delighted that we are going to have these
books in the Modern Library. John Dos Passos is exactly the kind of
author that we can sell in this series” (Cerf to Donald Brace, 13 May
1937).

Harcourt, Brace reset *The 42nd Parallel*, incorporating corrections of
a large number of typographical errors submitted by Dos Passos. The ML
edition was the first printing from the new typesetting. Dos Passos had
also made extensive revisions for the ML edition of *Three Soldiers*
(248).

Cerf asked Dos Passos to write a short foreword to the ML edition of
*The 42nd Parallel*, noting that he believed his foreword to the ML
edition of *Three Soldiers* (248) “materially helped the sale of the
book.” He offered the usual $50 fee with the apology that the ML
couldn’t afford more but enclosed a ML list and invited Dos Passos to
select any books he wanted (Cerf to Dos Passos, ibid.). Dos Passos
eventually selected about a hundred titles. He promised to send a short
introduction and noted, “I’m not quite sure whether this is the time to
spill the fact that the narratives will be collected into a one volume
novel under the name of *U.S.A.* or not” (Dos Passos to Cerf, 4 July
1937).

The introduction to the ML edition, dated July 1937, begins:

> *The 42nd Parallel* is the first volume of *U. S. A.*, a long
> narrative which deals with the more or less entangled lives of a
> number of Americans during the first three decades of the present
> century. The volumes that follow are called *1919* and *The Big
> Money*.
>
> In an effort to take in as much as possible of the broad field of the
> lives of these times, three separate sequences have been threaded in
> and out among the stories. Of these *The Camera Eye* aims to indicate
> the position of the observer and *Newsreel* to give an inkling of the
> common mind of the epoch. Portraits of a number of real people are
> interlarded in the pauses in the narrative because their lives seem to
> embody so well the quality of the soil in which Americans of these
> generations grew.
>
> This method was used with the idea of coping with the particular job
> in hand rather than from any generalized theory about novelwriting
> \[*sic*\]. In fact I don’t think any such theory holds water. The
> shape of a piece of work should be imposed, and in a good piece of
> work always is imposed, by the matter. That’s more or less of a
> commonplace of a considerable body of literary criticism.

The ML later renegotiated the reprint contract so that the trilogy could
appear as a Giant rather than separate volumes in the regular ML.
*U.S.A.* (G42) was published as a Giant in February 1939, and *The 42nd
Parallel* was discontinued as a separate volume in fall 1940.

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span>

Dos Passos, *Three Soldiers* (1932–1963) 248

Dos Passos, *U.S.A.* (1939–1962) G42

### 308

**V. F. CALVERTON, ed. THE MAKING OF SOCIETY. 1937–1959. (ML 183)**

#### 308a. First printing (1937)

\[within double rules\] THE | MAKING OF SOCIETY | AN OUTLINE OF
SOCIOLOGY | \[rule\] | EDITED BY | V. F. CALVERTON | \[rule\] |
\[torchbearer A2\] | \[rule\] | THE MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK

Pp. \[i–vi\] vii–xviii, 1–11 \[12\], \[*2*\], 13–40, \[*4*\], 41–923
\[924–928\]. \[1–29\]<sup>16</sup> \[30\]<sup>12</sup>

\[i\] half title; \[ii\] pub. note D18; \[iii\] title; \[iv\]
*Copyright,* 1937, *by* RANDOM HOUSE, INC.; \[v\] dedication; \[vi\]
blank; vii–xi PREFACE signed p. xi: V.F.C.; \[xii\] blank; xiii–xiv
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS; xv–xviii CONTENTS; 1–11 INTRODUCTION | THE AMERICAN
PATTERN | *By* *V. F. CALVERTON*; \[12\] blank, \[*1*\] part title: I |
RELIGIOUS AND ETHICAL CONTRIBUTIONS; \[*2*\] blank; 13–14 *COMMENTARY*;
15–40 text; \[*1*\] part title: II | GREEK THEORIES; \[*2*\] blank;
\[*3*\] *COMMENTARY*; \[*4*\] blank; 41–902 text; \[903\] part title:
BIOGRAPHIES; \[904\] blank; 905–923 BIOGRAPHIES; \[924–928\] blank.

*Contents:* I. <span class="smallcaps">Religious and Ethical
Contributions</span>. The Ten Commandments – The Sermon on the Mount –
The Code of Hammurabi – Selections from the Koran – On Government, by
Confucius – On Co-operation, by Lao Tse. II. <span
class="smallcaps">Greek Theories</span>. Philosophers as Kings and Kings
as Philosophers, by Plato – On Property, by Aristotle. III. <span
class="smallcaps">Medieval Concepts</span>. On the Law of Heaven and
Earth, by St. Augustine. IV. <span class="smallcaps">The Advance of
Modern Sociological Thought</span>. Selections from Scienza Nuova, by
Giambattista Vico – The Art of War, by Niccolo Machiavelli – Selections
from Two Treatises on Civil Government, by John Locke – On the Natural
Condition of Mankind, by Thomas Hobbes – Selections from *The Social
Contract*, by Jean Jacques Rousseau – Of Monarchy and Hereditary
Succession, by Thomas Paine – Of Laws in Relation to the Nature of the
Climate, by Baron de Montesquieu – Division of Labor, by Adam Smith. V.
<span class="smallcaps">Sociology Comes of Age</span>. An Essay on the
Principle of Population, by T. R. Malthus – The Authority of Society
over the Individual, by John Stuart Mill – The Action of Positivism upon
the Working Classes, by Auguste Comte – Political Economy and Utopian
Socialism, by Pierre-Joseph Proudhon – Selections from *The State*, by
Michael Bakunin – Natural Selection; or the Survival of the Fittest, by
Charles Darwin – Influence of Physical Laws, by Henry Thomas Buckle –
The Communist Manifesto, by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. VI. <span
class="smallcaps">Sociology and Social Conflict</span>. Division of
Labor and Social Solidarity, by Emile Durkheim – Selections from *The
Outline of Sociology*, by Ludwig Gumplowicz – The Tendency of the
Development of the State, by Franz Oppenheimer – Class Society and the
State, by Nicolai Lenin – What Is the Permanent Revolution, by Leon
Trotsky – On the Expropriation of the Capitalists, by Waclaw Machajaski
– The Collectivist Wages System, by Peter Kropotkin – Personality and
the Conception of the State, by Adolf Hitler – The Fascist State and the
Future, by Benito Mussolini. VII. <span class="smallcaps">Sociology and
Culture</span>. The Sociological View of Ethics, by Herbert Spencer –
The Spirit of Capitalism, by Max Weber – Proletariat and Religion and
Nationalism, by Werner Sombart – Sociology as a Science, by Vilfredo
Pareto – Intellectual Egalitarianism, by Lester Ward – Selections from
*Folkways*, by William Graham Sumner – Conspicuous Consumption, by
Thorsten Veblen – The Scientific Scrutiny of Societal Facts, by F. 

H. Giddings – The Economics of Genius, by J. M. Robertson. VIII. <span
class="smallcaps">Contemporary Sociological Reflections</span>. L<span
class="smallcaps">iberal</span>. The Development of Sociology, by Harry
Elmer Barnes – Classes of Social Interest, by R. M. <span
class="smallcaps">MacIver</span> – The Cultural Approach to Sociology,
by Malcom M. Willey and Melville S. Herskovits – The Migration of Class
Struggle, by Edward A. Ross – The Hypothesis of Cultural Lag, by William
Fielding Ogburn – Art, Science, and Society, by C. H. Cooley – Mental
Patterns in Relation to Culture, by Wilson D. Wallis – Renascent
Liberalism, by John Dewey – Law as a Social Science, by Huntington
Cairns – The Idol of the Laboratory, by Graham Wallas – Anglo-Saxonism
and Nordicism in America, by F. H. Hankins. <span
class="smallcaps">Radical</span>. A Planned Society: Communist Vision,
by John Strachey – Technocracy, by Stuart Chase – Marxian Philosophy, by
Max Eastman – The Scope of Marxian Theory, by Sidney Hook – Sociological
Criticism of Literature, by V. F. Calverton – Masters: Old and New, by
Max Nomad – The Applications of Engineering Methods to Finance, by C. H.
Douglas.

*Jacket A:* Non-pictorial in deep blue (179), brilliant green (140) and
gold on coated white paper with title in reverse on deep blue band
bordered in gold; background in brilliant green with gold decorations
and additional lettering in reverse. Designed by Paul Galdone, July
1937; unsigned.

> Front flap:<br>
> A companion volume to *The Making of Man* (No. 149), which is a
> compilation of the most authoritative views on anthropology, *The
> Making of Society* is its logical and necessary sequel. In it men of
> such diverse opinions as Plato, Aristotle, Machiavelli, Rousseau, Adam
> Smith, Mill, Darwin, Pareto, Veblen, Dewey, Strachey, Marx, Lenin,
> Trotsky, Hitler, Mussolini and many others offer their social
> philosophies. Here the lay reader can find the essential principles
> upon which society is organized and understand the struggle for power
> which today engages the thought of the entire world. (*Fall 1937*)

Original ML anthology. Published 10 November 1937. *WR* 13 November
1937. First printing: Not ascertained. Superseded fall 1959 by a revised
edition edited by Robert Bierstedt (514).

Review copies included the following note from Cerf: “ATTENTION, PLEASE!
This is an entirely new book, and <u>NOT</u> <u>A</u> <u>REPRINT</u>
\[underlining in original\]. I will appreciate your bearing this fact in
mind when you write your review.”

Adolf Hitler’s name is misspelled “Adolph” in the table of contents
(Part VI) and spelled correctly in the text (p. 454). all ptintings?

*The Making of Society* sold 4,911 copies during the eighteen-month
period May 1942–October 1943, placing it in the third quarter ML and
Giant titles. It was not among the one hundred best-selling titles in
the regular ML during the twelve-month period November 1951–October
1952.

#### 308b. Title page reset (c. 1940)

THE MAKING | OF SOCIETY | *An Outline of Sociology* | *Edited by* V. F.
CALVERTON | \[torchbearer D1 at right; 3-line imprint at left\] THE |
MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK | \[rule\]

Pagination as 308a except: \[924–936\]. \[1–30\]<sup>16</sup>

Contents as 308a except: \[ii\] blank; \[iv\] COPYRIGHT, 1937, BY RANDOM
HOUSE, INC.; \[924\] blank; \[925–930\] ML list; \[931–932\] ML Giants
list; \[933–936\] blank. (*Fall 1949*)

*Jacket B:* Enlarged version of 308a except in deep red (13) and dark
gray (266) in place of deep blue and brilliant green. Front flap as
308a. (*Fall 1946*) Front flap reset with last sentence revised: “. . .
and understand the conflicts and adjustments in which men in relation to
other men are engaged.” (*Fall 1953*)

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span>

Bierstedt, ed., *Making of Society* (1959– ) 514

Calverton, ed., *Anthology of American Negro Literature* (1929–1944) 183

Calverton, ed., *Making of Man* (1931–1970) 215
