# MODERN LIBRARY SERIES 1938   

## 1938   

### General   

The spring 1938 RH catalogue was indicative of the growing importance of RH’s trade list. It included Isak Dineson’s *Out of Africa*, William Faulkner’s *Unvanquished*, Robert Graves’s *Count Belisarius*, Edgar Snow’s *Red Star Over China*, and John Strachey’s *What is to be Done?* Other titles included *The Public Papers* and *Addresses of Franklin D. Roosevelt* in five volumes and *The Complete Greek Drama*, a two-volume set in the Lifetime Library, a series of mainly ancient classics that began the previous year with *The Complete Dialogues of Plato*.   

It was a list that even other publishers found impressive. Albert Knopf wrote to Cerf: “I have just been looking over with admiration and respect your new catalogue. You are publishing a lot of interesting books and building on a solid foundation” (Knopf to Cerf, 26 January 1938). Philip Van Doren Stern of Simon & Schuster was equally impressed, and perhaps a bit envious (Stern to Cerf, 26 January 1938).   

> I want to congratulate you on your really magnificent list. It is one of the finest that I have ever seen assembled by an American publisher. You will certainly have a successful year with books like these and you are building up a backlist that will give your house a solid foundation of real honest-to-God titles in the years to come. . . . 
> P.S. This is no Dale Carnegie crap [*How to Win Friends and Influence People*, then enjoying a huge success, was a Simon & Schuster publication.] I mean every word of it.   

### Number of titles   

Eight new titles were added and five were discontinued, bringing the number of titles in the regular ML to 219. Five new titles were published in the Giants series; by the end of 1938 ML Giants included forty titles in forty-two volumes.   

### Format   

All new titles in the regular ML except Walter D. Edmonds, *Rome Haul* (310) were published in the standard format with the binding measuring 6⅝ x 4⅜ in. (168 x 110 mm) and leaves trimmed to 6½ x 4¼ in. (164 x 107 mm). *Rome Haul* was ¼ in. taller and wider to accommodate the Little, Brown plates.   

The ML’s standard format was enlarged in fall 1939. The new binding measured 7¼ x 4⅞ in. (182 x 123 mm) with a trim size of 7 x 4¾ in. (177 x 120 mm). In 1969 a taller, slightly slimmer format was introduced with the binding measuring 7½ x 4¾ in. (190 x 120 mm) and a trim size of 7¼ x 4½ in. (182 x 115 mm). All dimensions indicated are approximate.   

Most books through 1954 were printed with 16 pages on each side of the sheet and bound in gatherings of 16 leaves (32 pages); by 1956 most books were being printed with 32 pages on each side of the sheet and bound in gatherings of 32 leaves (64 pages).   

### Title page   

All new titles in the regular ML had the final version of Elmer Adler’s title page with the title in open-face type; four had torchbearer A2 and four had torchbearer A3. All new titles had the 2-line imprint:   

<center> T H E M O D E R N L I B R A R Y  </center> 
<center> NEW YORK  </center>

### Binding   

Balloon cloth binding D, with Kent’s torchbearer (1⅛ in.; 27 mm) stamped in gold on the front panel and stylized initials “ML” added in gold above the 2-line imprint on the spine. Balloon cloth bindings continued to be available in four colors: red, blue, green, and brown, with the top edge stained the same color as the binding. Each title was published simultaneously in all four bindings.   

### Endpaper   

Rockwell Kent endpapers in moderate orange (53). Moderate orange endpapers were used with all balloon cloth bindings from fall 1930 through spring 1939 except for Reed, *Ten Days That Shook the World* (1935) and three spring 1939 titles that were published in the larger format that the ML adopted for all titles beginning in fall 1939. These four titles had blank endpapers. Since endpapers were printed from plates designed for the standard balloon cloth format, titles like Edmonds, *Rome Haul*, which were slightly larger than the standard balloon cloth format had endpapers with unprinted outer edges. An enlarged version of Kent’s endpaper was introduced in spring 1940. The central panels featuring Kent’s torchbearer were unchanged, but the surrounding pattern of open books and the initials “ml” was extended to fill the larger space.   

### Jackets  

All new titles were published in individually designed jackets. Four had pictorial jackets; Steinbeck, *Of Mice and Men* and *The Wisdom of Confucius* had non-pictorial jackets. Two titles had predominately non-pictorial jackets: the blue background of Canfield, *The Deepening Stream*, was patterned to suggest water currents, and Proust, *Cities of the Plain*, featured a small left-profile silhouette of the author.   

### Price   

95 cents.   

### Dating keys   

(Spring) Confucius, *Wisdom* xProust, *Cities of the Plain*; Giants through G40; jackets: 257. (Fall) Proust, *Cities of the Plain* xStone, *Lust for Life*; Giants through G42; jackets: 262.   

### Titles sought, suggested, declined   

Cerf wanted to add a historical novel to the ML. He wrote Doubleday, Doran about Kenneth Roberts’s *Arundel*, which dealt with Benedict Arnold’s expedition to Quebec during the Revolutionary War. He noted that he understood that Roberts was not keen about having his books in reprint editions but argued that the ML should “be considered in a rather different category than the ordinary reprint. We have got one book or more by almost every important American novelist in the series now” (Cerf to Malcolm Johnson, Doubleday, Doran, 12 May 1938). Cerf then wrote to Roberts himself, offering an advance of \$1,500 against royalties of 10 cents a copy. He indicated, “In these days and times, a \$1500.00 advance is a heavy one, but I feel so confident that ARUNDEL would sell like blazes in the Modern Library series that I think the advance would be earned in far less than the usual time and that, therefore, the book would sell in the Modern Library series very steadily for many years to come” (Cerf to Kenneth Roberts, 23 May 1938). Doubleday, Doran agreed to Cerf’s terms, but Roberts was unconvinced. He indicated that he was not certain that *Arundel* should be available in a cheap edition, and subsequently wrote that he had decided “to wait a while longer before allowing a cheap edition of any of my books” (Roberts to Cerf, 21 November 1938).   

Shortly thereafter Cerf wrote Hervey Allen about including his historical novel *Anthony Adverse* in ML Giants (Cerf to Hervey Allen, 6 December 1938). He first expressed interest in *Anthony Adverse* five years earlier, shortly after it was published (see 1933 Titles sought, suggested, declined). *Anthony Adverse* sold 300,000 copies in its first six months and led the fiction bestseller lists in 1933 and 1934. Nothing came of Cerf’s initiative. Like Roberts’s *Arundel*, *Anthony Adverse* does not appear to have been published in an inexpensive reprint edition.   

Cerf approached Little, Brown yet again about a ML edition of Charles Nordhoff and James Norman Hall’s *Bounty* trilogy, but Alfred McIntyre of Little, Brown indicated that the books were still selling too well in their original editions to consider an inexpensive reprint (Cerf to McIntyre, 19 April 1938; McIntyre to Cerf, 20 April 1938). That fall Cerf wrote again:   

>What we want at the moment is a real leader or two for our Modern Library list for the next year. We can get all the sound run-of-the-mill titles, but it is a different problem to find another item like our Freud or Jean Christophe to head next year’s list. This brings me around once again to the question of the Bounty trilogy. If we were to offer you \$5000.00 cash on signing of the contract for an edition of 50,000 copies of the trilogy, to be published in the Spring of 1939 as a Modern Library Giant at \$1.25, would you be inclined to consider the proposal? The understanding would be that after 50,000 copies had been exhausted, we could not print another edition in this format without a brand new contract with you. Frankly, I think this would be a wonderful title for the Modern Library and that it would establish the authors on a higher literary plane than they have ever occupied before (Cerf to McIntyre, 7 September, 1938).   

The advance was twice what Cerf had offered in 1936, though the royalty rate remained the same (see 1936 Titles sought, suggested, declined). McIntyre replied that Little, Brown was publishing its own one-volume edition in October for the Christmas season and that it would be withdrawn in January, after which Little, Brown would push the three separate volumes (McIntyre to Cerf, 8 September 1938).   

In 1940 Cerf tried again to secure the *Bounty* trilogy for the ML. On that occasion he was told that Little, Brown was publishing a new edition of the trilogy with illustrations by N. C. Wyeth (Cerf to McIntyre, 2 April 1940; McIntyre to Cerf, 6 April 1940). The edition with Wyeth’s illustrations was published in October 1940.   

During a trip to England in fall 1938 Cerf met with George Bernard Shaw, who had always opposed inexpensive reprint editions of his plays. On this occasion Cerf reported in a letter to Random House, “Old boy spryer than ever. All for us doing ‘9 Plays’ as Giant. Gotta get after Dodd, Mead on this soon” (Cerf Papers Box 71, Cerf European trip (1) folder. Cerf to Random House, undated). *Nine Plays* included *Mrs. Warren’s Profession*, *Arms and the Man*, *Candida*, *The Devil’s Disciple*, *Caesar and Cleopatra*, *Man and Superman*, *Fanny’s First Play*, *Androcles and the Lion*, and *Saint Joan*. However, when Cerf contacted Dodd, Mead after his return, he indicated that the two firms would have to find a formula satisfactory to both, given the number of editions of Shaw’s works that Dodd, Mead published. Since Dodd, Mead had no cheap edition of *St. Joan*, he suggested a ML edition of that play with “one or 2 lesser efforts. Perhaps Candida or Caesar & Cleopatra” (Cerf to Howard Lewis, Dodd, Mead & Co., 2 December 1938). There is no further correspondence in the archives about a ML reprint of Shaw’s plays. Shaw may have changed his mind, or Dodd, Mead may have vetoed the idea. It was only after Shaw’s death in 1950 that the ML was able to publish two volumes of his plays: *Four Plays* (1953) and *Saint Joan, Major Barbara, Androcles and the Lion* (1956).   

Henry Hoyns of Harper and Brothers suggested a ML edition of Paul Horgan’s novel *The Fault of Angels*, which had won the Harper Prize when it was published in 1933. Cerf replied that he did not think there would be sufficient sales to justify a ML edition (Hoyns to Cerf, 4 February 1938; Cerf to Hoyns, 17 February 1938).   

### New titles   
Pearson, *Studies in Murder* (1938) 309   
Edmonds, *Rome Haul* (1938) 310   
Steinbeck, *Of Mice and Men* (1938) 311   
Confucius, *Wisdom of Confucius* (1938) 312   
George, *Progress and Poverty* (1938) 313   
Webb, *Precious Bane* (1938) 314   
Canfield, *Deepening Stream* (1938) 315   
Proust, *Cities of the Plain* (1938) 316

### Discontinued   
France, *Red Lily* (1917)   
Gilbert, *H.M.S. Pinafore and Other Plays* (1925)   
Hecht, *Erik Dorn* (1924)   
Ibsen, *Master Builder, Pillars of Society, Hedda Gabler* (1918)   
Mann, *Magic Mountain* (1932)\*   

\*The ML’s reprint contract for *The Magic Mountain* (229) was limited to a term of five years. Knopf refused to consider a renewal, but he appears to have allowed the ML to make a final printing of 10,000 copies shortly before the contract expired.   

#### ***Spring***   

### 309   

**EDMUND PEARSON. STUDIES IN MURDER. 1938–1950. (ML 113)**   

#### 309a. First printing (1938)   

[within double rules] STUDIES IN MURDER | [rule] | BY | EDMUND PEARSON | [rule] | I met Murder on the way— | He had a mask like Castlereagh: | Very smooth he looked, yet grim; | Seven bloodhounds followed him: | All were fat; and well they might | Be in admirable plight, | For one by one, and two by two, | He tossed them human hearts to chew. | —T<span class="smallcaps">he Masque of Anarchy</span> | [torchbearer A3] | [rule] | THE MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK   

Pp. [*8*], [1–2] 3–346 [347–352]. [1–10]<sup>16</sup> [11–12]<sup>8</sup> [13]<sup>4</sup>   

[*1*] half title; [*2*] pub. note A7; [*3*] title; [*4*] *Copyright,* 1924, *by* THE MACMILLAN COMPANY, | 1933, 1935, *by the* F-R PUBLISHING CORPORA- | TION, *and* 1938, *by* RANDOM HOUSE, INC. | [short double rule] | *First Modern Library Edition* | 1938; [*5*] biographical note; [*6*] blank; [*7*] CONTENTS; [*8*] blank; [1] part title: THE BORDEN CASE; [2] blank; 3–333 text; [334] blank; [335] part title: APPENDIX; [336] blank; 337–346 APPENDIX; [347–351] ML list; [352] blank. (*Spring 1938*)   

*Contents:* The Borden Case – The Twenty-third Street Murder – “Mate Bram!” – The Hunting Knife – Uncle Amos Dreams a Dream – Malloy the Mighty – Hauptmann and Circumstantial Evidence – Do We Execute Innocent People?   

*Jacket:* Pictorial in moderate blue (182), dark blue (183), silver and black on coated white paper depicting a seated man with elongated bony head examining a sheet of paper listing the partial contents of the ML edition; author and title in silver above illustration, other lettering on front panel in black; lettering on spine in silver.   

> Front flap:<br> No criminologist of our time has approached Edmund Pearson for his accuracy in probing into the hidden motives and mysterious circumstances of famous homicides. *Studies in Murder* is the book by which he is best known. Originally, it contained analyses of the weird cases of Lizzie Borden, Benjamin Nathan, Captain Nash, Mabel Page and others. In the Modern Library edition two world-renowned cases are added, those of Bruno Hauptmann and the insurance murder of the almost indestructible Michael Malloy, with an essay, “Do We Execute Innocent People?” (*Spring 1938*)   

Originally published by the Macmillan Co., 1924. ML edition printed from plates made from a new typesetting with illustrations omitted and three chapters added: “Malloy the Mighty,” “Hauptmann and Circumstantial Evidence,” and “Do We Execute Innocent People?” Published February 1938. *WR* 12 February 1938. First printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued fall 1950.   

The plates of the Macmillan edition were too large for the ML’s format. The added chapters in the ML edition were originally published in *The New Yorker*: “Malloy the Mighty” (23 September 1933), “Hauptmann and Circumstantial Evidence” (9 March 1935), and “Do We Execute Innocent People?” (22 June 1935). The Appendix is reprinted from the Macmillan edition and includes sources and acknowledgments for the first five chapters only.   

*Studies in Murder* sold 3,713 copies during the eighteen-month period May 1942–October 1943, placing it in the third quarter of ML and Giant titles.   

#### 309b. Title page reset (1941)   

*STUDIES IN* | MURDER | BY | EDMUND PEARSON | *I met Murder on the way*— | *He had a mask like Castlereagh:* | *Very smooth he looked, yet grim;* | *Seven bloodhounds followed him:* | *All were fat; and well they might* | *Be in admirable plight,* | *For one by one, and two by two,* | *He tossed them human hearts to chew.* | THE MASQUE OF ANARCHY | [torchbearer D3 at right; 3-line imprint at left] THE | MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK | [rule]   

Pp. [*8*], [1–2] 3–346 [347–360]. [1–11]<sup>16</sup> [12]<sup>8</sup>   

Contents as 309a except: [*2*] blank; [*4*] COPYRIGHT, 1924, BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY, | 1933, 1935, BY THE F-R PUBLISHING CORPORATION, | AND 1938, BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC.; [352–353] ML Giants list; [354–360] blank. (*Spring 1941*)   

>*Variant A:* Pagination as 309a. [1–11]<sup>16</sup> [12]<sup>4</sup>. Contents as 309b except: [347–351] ML list; [352] blank. (*Fall 1943*) 

> *Variant B:* Pagination as 309b. [1–10]<sup>16</sup> [11–13]<sup>8</sup>. Contents as 309b except: [347–348] ML list (first 2 pages); [349–354] ML list (complete 6-page list); [355–356] blank; [357–360] ML list (last 4 pages). (*Fall 1947*) *Note:* The list of regular ML titles appears twice in the final gathering, with the beginning and end of one list separated by the list on pp. [349‑354] and a blank leaf.   

*Jacket:* Enlarged version of 309a except lettering on spine in reverse with torchbearer and frame around title in silver. (*Spring 1941*)   

### 310   

**WALTER D. EDMONDS. ROME HAUL. 1938–1945. (ML 191)**   

#### 310a. First printing (1938)   

[within double rules] ROME HAUL | [rule] | BY | WALTER D. EDMONDS | [rule] | WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY THE AUTHOR | [rule] | [torchbearer A2] | [rule] | THE MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK   

Pp. [i–iv] v–xii [xiii–xvi], [3] 4–347 [348–354]. [1–11]<sup>16</sup> [12]<sup>8</sup>. 6⅞ x 4⅝ in. (175 x 116 mm)   

[i] half title; [ii] pub. note A7; [iii] title; [iv] *Copyright,* 1929, *by* WALTER D. EDMONDS; | *Introduction copyright,* 1938, *by* RANDOM HOUSE, INC. | [short double rule] | *First Modern Library Edition* | 1938; v biographical note; [vi] blank; vii–xii INTRODUCTION | By <span class="smallcaps">Walter D. Edmonds</span>; [xiii] dedication; [xiv] acknowledgment; [xv] CONTENTS; [xvi] blank; [3]–347 text; [348] blank; [349–353] ML list; [354] blank. (*Spring 1938*)   

*Jacket:* Pictorial with multicolor illustration depicting of mule-drawn canal boat in strong blue (178), very pale blue (184), moderate yellow green (120), moderate olive green (123), moderate yellow (87), and moderate orange (53) on coated white paper with lettering in black; spine with strong blue bands and lettering in black against white background.   

> Front flap:<br> The Erie Canal, with its roistering boatmen and hard-fisted muleteers, its legends and feuds, comes into its own in *Rome Haul*. Walter D. Edmonds has re-created all its lost glories in a book that is remarkable as a contribution to American folklore and fascinating as a novel of adventure. The dramatized version of *Rome Haul*, under the title of *The Farmer Takes a Wife*, enjoyed great success on the stage and screen. In the Modern Library series it will enlist a new army of enthusiasts. (*Spring 1938*)   

Originally published by Little, Brown & Co., 1929. ML edition (pp. [xiii]–347) printed from Little, Brown plates with fly title and chart of the Erie Canal on Little, Brown endpapers omitted. Published February 1938. *WR* 12 February 1938. First printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued 1 January 1946.   

*Rome Haul* was ¼ in. taller and wider than the ML’s standard balloon cloth format to accommodate the Little, Brown plates.   

*Rome Haul* sold 3,091 copies during the eighteen-month period May 1942–October 1943, placing it in the fourth quarter of ML and Giant titles.   

#### 310b. Title page reset (1941)   

[within single rules; 7-line title and statement of responsibility within second set of single rules] *Rome* | *Haul* | BY | WALTER D. | EDMONDS | WITH AN INTRODUCTION | BY THE AUTHOR | [below inner frame: torchbearer D4 at right; 3-line imprint at left] THE | MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK   

Pagination and collation as 310a.   

Contents as 310a except: [ii] blank; [iv] COPYRIGHT, 1929, BY WALTER D. EDMONDS | INTRODUCTION COPYRIGHT, 1938, | BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC. (*Spring 1941*)   

*Jacket:* Enlarged version of 310a with foreground in light orange (52) instead of moderate yellow; spine in strong blue (178) with lettering in reverse and torchbearer and frame around title in black. (*Spring 1941*)   

### 311   

**JOHN STEINBECK. OF MICE AND MEN. 1938– . (ML 29)**   

#### 311a. First printing (1938)   

[within double rules] OF MICE AND MEN | [rule] | BY | JOHN STEINBECK | [rule] | W<span class="smallcaps">ith an</span> I<span class="smallcaps">ntroduction by</span> J<span class="smallcaps">oseph</span> H<span class="smallcaps">enry Jackson</span> | [rule] | [torchbearer A3] | [rule] | THE MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK   

Pp. [i–iv] v–xx, [5–6] 7–186 [187–192]. [1–6]<sup>16</sup> [7]<sup>8</sup>   

[i] half title; [ii] pub. note A7; [iii] title; [iv] <span class="smallcaps">Copyright</span>, 1937, <span class="smallcaps">by John Steinbeck</span> | [short double rule] | *First Modern Library Edition* | 1938; v–xx INTRODUCTION | *By* <span class="smallcaps">Joseph Henry Jackson</span>; [5] fly title; [6] blank; 7–186 text; [187–191] ML list; [192] blank. (*Spring 1938*)   

*Jacket:* Non-pictorial in dark greenish blue (174), dark grayish yellow (91), and black on coated white paper with title in reverse against large dark greenish blue panel, borders at top and bottom in dark greenish blue, other lettering in black against smaller white panels ruled in dark grayish yellow; spine in dark grayish yellow with lettering in black. Three-line statement on front panel: “*A New Masterpiece*” | *The strange and disturbing drama of* | *two men and a woman*.   

> Front flap:<br> Genuine compassion for his vagabonds and human flotsam gives the breath of life to John Steinbeck’s novels and makes them idylls of the lower depths. *Of Mice and Men* is Steinbeck at his compassionate best; it is a story movingly and forcefully told and with overtones of soaring beauty. Its first success as a national best-seller and its subsequent triumph in dramatic form have helped to place John Steinbeck in the company of the first prose writers of America. (*Spring 1938*)   

Originally published by Covici, Friede, 1937, and subsequently by Viking Press. ML edition (pp. [5]–186) printed from Covici, Friede/Viking plates. Published February 1938. *WR* 5 March 1938. First printing: Not ascertained.   

Cerf and Klopfer arranged the ML reprint with Covici, Friede, which had been Steinbeck’s publisher since the publication of his fourth novel, *Tortilla Flat*, in 1935. The close working relationship between Steinbeck and his editor Pascal Covici was comparable to those between F. Scott Fitzgerald and Ernest Hemingway with Maxwell Perkins at Charles Scribner’s Sons. Covici, Friede failed shortly after *Of Mice and Men* appeared in the ML. The firm was acquired by Viking Press, Covici became a Viking editor, and Steinbeck became a Viking author. Arrangements for the second ML printing were made with Viking Press in October 1938.   

There were four ML printings between October 1938 and September 1942 totaling 10,000 copies. Steinbeck’s first book with Viking Press, *The Grapes of Wrath*, sold 430,000 copies in less than a year and was the best-selling work of fiction for 1939 (Madison, pp. 306–7; Hackett and Burke, p. 127).   

When *Of Mice and Men* was published in the ML it had to compete with a 39-cent reprint published by Blue Ribbon Books. Lewis Miller, the Random House sales manager, told one of the sales representatives: “Bennett felt strongly that the book deserved a place in the Modern Library, no matter what other editions were to be had” (Miller to Rosengren, 24 January 1938).   

*Of Mice and Men* sold 7,020 copies during the eighteen-month period May 1942–October 1943, placing it in the second quarter of ML and Giant titles. Sales of all four Steinbeck titles in the ML totaled 35,975 copies during this period. *The Grapes of Wrath* was the only Steinbeck novel among the 100 best-selling titles in the regular ML during the twelve-month period November 1951–October 1952.   

#### 311b. Title page reset (1940)   

OF MICE | AND MEN | BY | JOHN STEINBECK | WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY | JOSEPH HENRY JACKSON | [torchbearer D2 at right; 3-line imprint at left] THE | MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK | [rule]   

Pagination and collation as 311a.   

Contents as 311a except: [ii] blank; [iv] COPYRIGHT, 1937, BY JOHN STEINBECK. (*Fall 1940*)   

> *Variant A:* Pp. [i–iv] v–xix [xx], [5–6] 7–186 [187–192]. [1–6]<sup>16</sup> [7]<sup>8</sup>. Contents as 311b except: v–[xx] INTRODUCTION | *By* J<span class="smallcaps">oseph Henry Jackson</span>; [187–192] ML list. (*Spring 1945*) *Note:* Page numeral “xx” removed from plates. 

> *Variant B:* Pagination as variant A. [1–4]<sup>16</sup> [5]<sup>8</sup> [6–7]<sup>16</sup>. Contents as variant A except: [187] biographical note; [188] blank; [189–190] ML Giants list; [191–192] blank. (*Spring 1967*)   

*Jacket:* Enlarged version of 311a jacket in moderate bluish green (164) instead of dark bluish green; spine in moderate bluish green with lettering and torchbearer in reverse with frame around title in black. 

> Statement on front: “This is the novel that first established the author of *Grapes of Wrath* as a National Best Seller.” (*Spring 1942*)   

#### 311c. Reissue format (1979)   

Title as 311b except: [torchbearer M].   

Pagination as 311b variants. Perfect bound.   

Contents as 311b variant except: [iv] Copyright, 1937, by John Steinbeck | Copyright renewed 1965 by John Steinbeck; [187] biographical note; [188–192] blank.   

*Jacket:* Non-pictorial on kraft paper with lettering in dark purple (224) and torchbearer in dark yellowish brown (78). Designed by Sara Eisenman.   

> Front flap:<br> *Of Mice and Men* is the beautiful and moving story of George Milton and Lennie Small, who live—like the characters in *The Grapes of Wrath*—on the fringes of American society. Sustained by the hope of someday owning a farm of their own, these two itinerant laborers arrive to work on a ranch in central California. George, who is short-tempered, relies on Lennie’s great physical strength for protection and in turn tries to keep his feeble-minded friend out of trouble. But in the end, Lennie’s fundamental weakness leads to the inevitable tragedy that Steinbeck so poignantly explores in this spare, poetic novel.   

Published spring 1979 at \$5.95. ISBN 0-394-60472-5.   

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span>   
Steinbeck, *Tortilla Flat* (1937–1971) 304   
Steinbeck, *In Dubious Battle* (1939–1971) 322   
Steinbeck, *Grapes of Wrath* (1941–1959) 341   

### 312   

**CONFUCIUS. THE WISDOM OF CONFUCIUS. 1938– . (ML 7; ML 306)**   

#### 312.1a. First printing (1938)   

[within double rules] THE WISDOM | OF CONFUCIUS | [rule] | *Edited and Translated with Notes | By* LIN YUTANG | [rule] | [torchbearer A3] | [rule] | THE MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK   

Pp. [i–vi] vii–xvii [xviii], [1–2] 3–290 [291–294]. [1–9]<sup>16</sup> [10]<sup>12</sup>   

[i] half title; [ii] pub. note D11; [iii] title; [iv] *Copyright,* 1938, *by* RANDOM HOUSE, INC. | [short double rule] | *First Modern Library Edition* | 1938; [v] dedication; [vi] blank; vii–ix IMPORTANT CHARACTERS | MENTIONED; [x] blank; xi–xiii THE PRONUNCIATION | OF CHINESE NAMES; [xiv] blank; xv–xvii CONTENTS; [xviii] blank; [1] fly title; [2] map of the most important Chinese states at the time of Confucius; 3–290 text; [291–294] blank.   

*Jacket:* Predominantly non-pictorial in deep yellowish pink (27), dark reddish brown (44) and dark grayish yellow (91) on coated white paper with title in reverse against deep yellowish pink panel; other lettering in reverse against dark reddish brown panel with rules and pictorial decorations of trees and pagodas in dark grayish yellow; lettering on spine in reverse against dark reddish brown. Designed by Paul Galdone, December 1937; unsigned.   

> Front flap:<br> For 2,500 years the writings of China’s great sage have represented the moral principles as well as the day-to-day standards of conduct for countless millions of people in the East. Today, as much as ever, his doctrines influence the way of life of the most populous nation on earth. A completely new English text has been prepared for the Modern Library edition of *The Wisdom of Confucius* under the editorship of Dr. Lin Yutang, the foremost interpreter of ancient and modern China in America today. (*Spring 1938*)   

Original ML collection. Published April 1938. *WR* 9 April 1938. First printing: Not ascertained.   

Several months before *The Wisdom of Confucius* was published Cerf wrote to a publishers’ representative in New Zealand, “I call your particular attention to the Confucius volume, edited by Lin Yutang. I think this will prove one of the most popular titles we have ever had, and we expect about three times the normal advance sale on it” (Cerf to Nash & Kissling, 17 November 1937). Cerf’s prediction was correct. *The Wisdom of Confucius* was one of the ML’s best-selling titles. In 1942 it was the third best-selling title in the series.   

While working on the manuscript Lin Yutang wrote, “I am conceited enough to think that it will be a gorgeous book, the most intelligible on Confucianism. I have gone through the entire material already, and besides the introduction, it will be principally the work of translating. Most of the chapters are not very long and the manuscript will be around two hundred pages” (Lin Yutang to Klopfer, 4 January 1938). The completed manuscript was submitted on 31 January. The ML’s financial arrangements with Lin Yutang have not been ascertained. He received \$300 on publication (Emanuel Harper to Lin Yutang, 11 April 1938); it is not known whether this represented partial payment of a flat fee or was an advance against royalties.   

Lin Yutang made a trip to Europe after submitting the manuscript and did not read the proofs. The ML’s rights to some of the material in the collection appears to have been challenged. In 1939 Random House paid \$250 for all rights to Miles Menander Dawson’s *The Conduct of Life (The Ethics of Confucius)*, originally published by International Press in 1915.   

*The Wisdom of Confucius* sold 12,000 copies during the eighteen-month period May 1942–October 1943, placing it seventeenth out of 281 ML and Giant titles. Sales declined by the early 1950s. During the twelve-month period November 1951–October 1952 it sold 4,036 copies, making it sixty-first out of the 100 best-selling titles in the regular ML.   

#### 312.1b. Title page reset (1941)   

THE | WISDOM | OF | CONFUCIUS | *Edited and translated* | *with notes by* | LIN YUTANG | [torchbearer D3] | [rule] | THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK | [rule]   

Pagination and collation as 312.1a.   

Contents as 312.1a except: [ii] blank; [iv] COPYRIGHT, 1938, BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC.   

> *Variant:* Pp. [i–vi] vii–xvii [xviii], [1–2] 3–290 [291–302]. [1–10]<sup>16</sup>. Contents as 312.1b except: [291–296] ML list; [297–298] ML Giants list; [299–302] blank. (*Fall 1944*)   

*Jacket* *A:* Enlarged version of 312.1a. (*Spring 1941*) 

> Front flap reset with following sentence added at end: <br>  “His Introduction clarifies for the Western reader the great ethical teachings of Confucius.” (*Spring 1962*) *Note:* Jackets numbered “7” on spine through spring 1959 and “306” from fall 1959.   

*Jacket B:* Pictorial Fujita jacket in deep reddish orange (36) and black on coated white paper with pattern of Chinese figures and lettering in reverse.   

> Front flap:<br> For 2,500 years the writings of China’s great sage have represented the moral principles as well as the day-to-day standards of conduct for countless millions of people in the East. Today, as much as ever, his doctrines influence the way of life of the most populous nation on earth. The English text was prepared for the Modern Library edition under the editorship of Lin Yutang. His Introduction clarifies for the Western reader the great ethical teachings of Confucius.   

In 1945 the word “Jewish” was removed from the following sentence: “[Confucius] could sing and be extremely polite, but he also could hate and sneer with the hatred and contempt of a ‘real man,’ which was shared by Jesus in his hatred of the Jewish scribes” (p. 27, line 16). Freiman asked that the word be eliminated from the plates of both the regular ML and Illustrated ML editions (Freiman to Parkway Printing, 21 May 1945).   

*The Wisdom of Confucius* was shifted from ML 7 to ML 306 in fall 1959 when the six-volume Shakespeare was renumbered ML 2–7.   

####  312.2. Text reset; reissue format (1977)   

THE | WISDOM | OF | CONFUCIUS | *Edited and translated* | *with notes by* | LIN YUTANG | [torchbearer M] | THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK   

Pp. [i–vi] vii–xvii [xviii], [1–2] 3–290 [291–302]. Perfect bound.   

[i] half title; [ii] blank; [iii] title; [iv] COPYRIGHT, 1938, BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC. | COPYRIGHT, RENEWED, 1966, BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC.; [v] dedication; [vi] blank; vii–ix IMPORTANT CHARACTERS | NAMED; [x] blank; xi–xiii THE PRONUNCIATION | OF CHINESE NAMES; [xiv] blank; xv–xvii CONTENTS; [xviii] blank; [1] fly title; [2] map of the most important Chinese states at the time of Confucius; 3–290 text; [291–302] blank. *Note:* The text is entirely reset except for the map on p. [2]. The preliminaries and the body of the text of 312.1 and 312.2 have the same number of pages.   

*Jacket:* Non-pictorial on kraft paper with lettering in dark reddish brown (44) and torchbearer in strong brown (44). Designed by R. D. Scudellari.   

> Front flap:<br> “Confucianism stood for a rationalized social order through the ethical approach, based on personal cultivation. It aimed at political order by laying the basis for it in a moral order, and it sought political harmony by trying to achieve the moral harmony in man himself. . . . Fundamentally, it was a humanist attitude, brushing aside all futile metaphysics and mysticism, interested chiefly in the essential human relationships, and not in the world of spirits or in immortality. The strongest doctrine of this particular type of humanism, which accounts for its great enduring influence, is the doctrine that ‘the measure of man is man,’ a doctrine which makes it possible for the common man to begin somewhere as a follower of Confucianism by merely following the highest instincts of his own human nature, and not by looking for perfection in a divine ideal.”   

Published spring 1977 at \$4.95. ISBN 0-394-60426-1.   

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span>   
Confucius, *Wisdom of Confucius*, illustrated by Jeanyee Wong (Illus ML, 1943–1949) IML 3   

### 313   

**HENRY GEORGE. PROGRESS AND POVERTY. 1938–1970. (ML 36)**   

#### 313a. First printing (1938)   

[within double rules] PROGRESS AND POVERTY | AN INQUIRY INTO THE CAUSE OF INDUSTRIAL | DEPRESSIONS AND OF INCREASE OF WANT | WITH INCREASE OF WEALTH | THE REMEDY | [rule] | BY | HENRY GEORGE | [rule] | [torchbearer A2] | [rule] | THE MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK   

Pp. [i–vi] vii–xx, [1–2] 3–571 [572]. [1–18]<sup>16</sup> [19]<sup>8</sup>   

[i] half title; [ii] pub. note D11; [iii] title; [iv] *First Modern Library Edition* | 1938 | [short double rule]; [v] dedication; [vi] epigraph from Marcus Aurelius Antoninus; vii–viii FOREWORD | TO THE FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY EDITION; ix–xii HOW THE BOOK CAME TO BE WRITTEN signed p. xii: <span class="smallcaps">Henry George, Jr.</span> | <span class="smallcaps">New York,</span> | January 24, 1905.; xiii–xvii PREFACE TO THE FOURTH EDITION signed p. xvii: <span class="smallcaps">Henry George.</span> | <span class="smallcaps">New York</span>*,* *November,* 1880.; [xviii] epigraphs from Edwin Arnold and Whittier; xix–xx CONTENTS; [1] part title: INTRODUCTORY | THE PROBLEM; [2] epigraph in verse from Mrs. Sigourney; 3–565 text; [566] blank; 567–571 INDEX; [572] blank.   

*Jacket:* Pictorial in deep reddish orange (36) and black on cream paper with graph showing economic trends from 1907 to 1937; lettering in black.   

> Front flap:<br> The growing importance of the economics section of the Modern Library is amply confirmed in the demand for such books as Adam Smith’s *The Wealth of Nations* (G32), Karl Marx’s *Capital* (G26), John Strachey’s *The Coming Struggle for Power* (G22), Thorstein Veblen’s *The Theory of the Leisure Class* (No. 63), and others. Now, with the addition of Henry George’s *Progress and Poverty*, complete and unabridged, every school of economic thought is represented and made available to the general reader at a price easily within his reach. (*Spring 1938*)   

Originally published by D. Appleton & Co., 1879. Fiftieth Anniversary Edition published by the Robert Schalkenbach Foundation, 1929. ML edition (pp. [v]–571) printed from Fiftieth Anniversary Edition plates with frontispiece portrait omitted. Published April 1938. *WR* 2 April 1938. First printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued 1970/71.   

*Progress and Poverty* sold 2,945 copies during the eighteen-month period May 1942–October 1943, placing it in the fourth quarter of ML and Giant titles. It was not among the 100 best-selling titles in the regular ML during the 12-month period November 1951–October 1952.   

#### 313b. Title page reset (c. 1940)   

PROGRESS | AND | POVERTY | AN INQUIRY INTO THE CAUSE OF INDUSTRIAL | DEPRESSIONS AND OF INCREASE OF WANT | WITH INCREASE OF WEALTH | THE REMEDY | BY HENRY GEORGE | [torchbearer D2] | [rule] | THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK | [rule]   

Pagination and collation as 313a.   

Contents as 313a except: [ii] blank; [iv] publication and manufacturing statements.   

*Jacket:* Non-pictorial in deep reddish brown (41) and bluish gray (191) on cream paper with title and author in reverse on tilted rectangular panel in deep reddish brown; background in bluish gray with series and torchbearer in reverse below tilted panel. 

> Front flap as 313a. (*Fall 1943*)   

> Front flap rewritten:<br> The growing interest in books on economics reflects the demand for enlightenment on means of production and modes of distribution. Knowledge of the needs and capacities of the individual and the society in which he lives are of vital concern to everyone. Such works as Adam Smith’s *The Wealth of Nations* (G-32), Karl Marx’s *Capital* (G-26), Thorstein Veblen’s *The Theory of the Leisure Class* (No. 63), *The Making of Society* (No. 183) and other volumes on economics and sociology make available to the general reader the widest possible range of thought on these subjects. Essential to this library of the world’s great social and economic thinkers is Henry George’s *Progress and Poverty*. The advocate of the single tax here analyzes the causes and effects of industrial depression and their consequences in terms of prosperity and poverty. (*Fall 1956*)   

#### ***Fall***   

### 314   

**MARY WEBB. PRECIOUS BANE. 1938–1970. (ML 219)**   

#### 314a. First printing (1938)   

[within double rules] PRECIOUS BANE | [rule] | BY | MARY WEBB | [rule] | WITH AN INTRODUCTION | <span class="smallcaps">by Stanley Baldwin</span> | [rule] | [torchbearer A2] | [rule] | THE MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK   

Pp. [i–viii] ix–xvi, [*2*], [1] 2–356 [357–366]. [1–12]<sup>16</sup>   

[i] half title; [ii] pub. note A6; [iii] title; [iv] *First published,* 1926, *by* | E. P. DUTTON & CO., INC. | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED | *First Modern Library Edition* | 1938 | [short double rule]; [v] biographical note; [vi] blank: [vii] dedication [viii] blank; ix–xii Introduction signed p. xii: STANLEY BALDWIN | 10 Downing Street, S.W.1. | *October,* 1928; xiii–xiv *Foreword* signed p. xiv: MARY WEBB | *March,* 1926; xv–xvi *Contents*; [*1*] fly title; [*2*] blank; [1]–356 text; [357–361] ML list; [362–363] ML Giants list; [364–366] blank. (*Fall 1938*)   

*Jacket:* Pictorial in strong green (141), moderate yellow green (120), pale greenish yellow (104), and deep brown (56) on coated white paper depicting two small figures walking on a country road with a village in the distance; title in reverse on inset strong green panel bordered in deep brown; other lettering in green. Signed: Galdone.   

> Front flap:<br> When *Precious Bane* was first published in England it was hailed by a handful of discerning readers. Gradually it won for itself more and more enthusiastic admirers, and then suddenly its popularity became worldwide. Over 170,000 copies were sold in expensive editions. Writers and critics vied with one another in praising this memorable Shropshire novel. England’s former Prime Minister, Stanley Baldwin, was moved to write a glowing introduction. Now in the Modern Library, *Precious Bane* will win hosts of new adherents. (*Fall 1938*)   

Originally published in U.S. by E. P. Dutton & Co., 1926; introduction by Stanley Baldwin added, 1930. ML edition (pp. [vii]–356) printed from Dutton plates. Published September 1938. *WR* 24 September 1938. First printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued 1970/71.   

The ML paid royalties of 6 cents a copy. *Precious Bane* sold 3,987 copies during the eighteen-month period May 1942–October 1943, placing it in the third quarter of ML and Giant titles. It was not among the 100 best-selling titles in the regular ML during the twelve-month period November 1951–October 1952.   

#### 314b. Title page reset (c. 1940)   

PRECIOUS | BANE | BY MARY WEBB | WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY | STANLEY BALDWIN | [torchbearer E2 at right; 3-line imprint at left] THE | MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK | [rule]   

Pagination and collation as 314a.   

Contents as 314a except: [ii] blank; [iv] *First Published* | 1926, BY E. P. DUTTON & CO., INC. (*Spring 1941*)   

*Jacket:* Enlarged version of 314a. (*Spring 1941*) 

> Front flap reset with last sentence revised as follows: “. . . will win hosts of new champions and adherents.” (*Spring 1959*)   

### 315   

**DOROTHY CANFIELD. THE DEEPENING STREAM. 1938–1958. (ML 200)**   

#### 315a. First printing (1938)   

[within double rules] THE | DEEPENING STREAM | [rule] | *BY |* DOROTHY CANFIELD | [rule] | [torchbearer A2] | [rule] | THE MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK   

Pp. [*6*], [1–2] 3–393 [394]. [1–12]<sup>16</sup> [13]<sup>8</sup>   

[*1*] half title; [*2*] pub. note D11; [*3*] title; [*4*] *Copyright,* 1930, *by* | HARCOURT, BRACE AND COMPANY, INC. | *Copyright,* 1930, *by* | THE CROWELL PUBLISHING COMPANY | [short double rule] | *First Modern Library Edition* | 1938; [*5*] biographical note; [*6*] blank; [1] fly title; [2] blank; 3–393 text; [394] blank.   

*Jacket:* Non-pictorial in light bluish gray (190), moderate blue (182), and black on coated white paper with background patterned like currents of a stream, deepening from light bluish gray at top to moderate blue at the foot; author in black, other lettering and torchbearer in reverse. Designed by Paul Galdone, June 1938; unsigned.   

> Front flap:<br> For a long time the editors of the Modern Library have wanted to include one of Dorothy Canfield’s novels in the series. They were confronted with an embarrassment of riches. The problem was solved by asking Dorothy Canfield herself to select her favorite novel. She unhesitatingly named *The Deepening Stream*. Of all her many books of fiction it best represents her unique storytelling gift. Here she brings vividly to life the drama of a young girl who grew to womanhood through love and suffering. (*Fall 1938*)   

Originally published by Harcourt, Brace & Co., 1930. ML edition (pp. [1]–393) printed from Harcourt, Brace plates. Published 11 November 1938. *WR* 12 November 1938. First printing: 5,000 copies. Discontinued 1 January 1959.   

The ML paid Harcourt, Brace an advance of \$500. Haas invited Canfield to write a preface of 6–7 pages and offered the ML’s usual \$50 fee (Haas to Dorothy Canfield Fisher, 20 August 1937), but she apparently declined. There were printings of 2,000 copies each in October 1940, June 1941, and December 1941, and a printing of 1,000 copies in May 1943.   

*The Deepening Stream* sold 2,865 copies during the eighteen-month period May 1942–October 1943, placing it in the fourth quarter of ML and Giant titles. It was not among the 100 best-selling titles in the regular ML during the twelve-month period November 1951–October 1952.   

#### 315b. Title page reset (c. 1940)   

[torchbearer E3] | [5-line title and statement of responsibility within single rules] THE | DEEPENING | STREAM | BY | DOROTHY CANFIELD | [below frame] THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK   

Pagination and collation as 315a.   

Contents as 315a except: [*2*] blank; [*4*] COPYRIGHT, 1930, | BY HARCOURT, BRACE AND COMPANY, INC. | COPYRIGHT, 1930, | BY THE CROWELL PUBLISHING COMPANY.   

*Jacket:* Enlarged version of 315a. (*Spring 1946*)   

> Front flap revised:<br> When the editors of the Modern Library decided to include one of Dorothy Canfield’s novels in the series, they were confronted with an embarrassment of riches. The problem of making a choice was solved for them when Dorothy Canfield herself selected the work that, in her opinion, deserved permanence. She unhesitatingly named *The Deepening Stream* as the one among all her books of fiction that best represents her unique story-telling gifts. In her favorite novel she brings vividly and memorably to life the drama of a young girl who achieved womanhood through love and suffering. (*Spring 1954*)   

### 316   

**MARCEL PROUST. CITIES OF THE PLAIN. 1938–1970. (ML 220)**   

#### 316a. First printing (1938)   

[within double rules] CITIES OF THE PLAIN | [rule] | BY | MARCEL PROUST | [rule] | TRANSLATED BY | C. K. SCOTT MONCRIEFF | [rule] | [torchbearer A3] | [rule] | THE MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK   

Pp. [*12*], 1–352; [*2*], 1–384 [385–386]. [1–23]<sup>16</sup> [24]<sup>8</sup>   

[*1*] half title; [*2*] pub. note D11; [*3*] title; [*4*] *Copyright,* 1927, *by* | RANDOM HOUSE, INC. | [short double rule] | *First Modern Library Edition* | 1938; [*5*] biographical note and bibliography; [*6*] blank; [*7*] TRANSLATOR’S DEDICATION; [*8*] blank; [*9*] CONTENTS; [*10*] blank; [*11*] part title: PART I; [*12*] blank; 1–352 text; [*1*] part title: PART II; [*2*] blank; 1–384 text; [385–386] blank.   

*Jacket:* Pictorial in dark gray (266) and grayish yellow green (122) on cream paper; left profile silhouette of Proust in grayish yellow green against dark gray background with lettering in reverse. Unsigned; probably designed by Joseph Blumenthal.   

> Front flap:<br> *Remembrance of Things Past* is the general title for the life work of Marcel Proust, and one by one, the seven independent novels which comprise the whole are being made available for readers of the Modern Library. . . . (*Fall 1938*)   

Scott Moncrieff translation originally published in U.S. in two volumes by A. & C. Boni, 1927. ML edition printed from A. & C. Boni/Random House plates. Published November 1938. *WR* 12 November 1938. First printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued 1970/71.   

Random House acquired the rights to Proust’s *Remembrance of Things Past* from A. & C. Boni when that firm ran into financial difficulties and published the seven-novel sequence in 1934 as a four-volume set in a wooden slipcase (Cerf, *At Random*, p. 99). RH subsequently published *Remembrance of Things Past* in two volumes. The seven novels were published individually in the ML between 1928 and 1951.   

*Cities of the Plain* sold 2,292 copies during the eighteen-month period May 1942–October 1943, placing it in the fourth quarter of ML and Giant titles. It was not among the 100 best-selling titles in the regular ML during the twelve-month period November 1951–October 1952. *Swann’s Way* (166), which sold 5,017 copies between May 1942 and October 1943, was in the third quarter of ML and Giant titles and the only Proust title at that period to rank above the fourth quarter. By November 1951–October 1952 *Swann’s Way* had climbed to a secure position in the first quarter of ML and Giant titles.   

#### 316b. Title page reset (c. 1940)   

CITIES | OF THE | PLAIN | BY | MARCEL PROUST | TRANSLATED BY | C. K. SCOTT MONCRIEFF | [torchbearer D5] | [rule] | THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK | [rule]   

Pagination and collation as 316a.   

Contents as 316a except: [*2*] blank; [*4*] COPYRIGHT, 1927, BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC. (*Spring 1946 jacket*)   

> *Variant* *A:* Pagination as 316a. [1]<sup>16</sup> [2–11]<sup>32</sup> [12]<sup>24</sup> [13]<sup>16</sup>. Contents as 316b except: [*4*] COPYRIGHT, 1927, BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC. | COPYRIGHT, RENEWED, 1955, BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC.; [385–386] ML Giants list. (*Spring 1958*) 

> *Variant B:* Pp. [*12*], 1–352; [*2*], 1–383 [384–386]. [1]<sup>16</sup> [2–10]<sup>32</sup> [11]<sup>24</sup> [12]<sup>32</sup> [13]<sup>16</sup>. Contents as variant A except: 1–[384] text. (*Fall 1967*) *Note:* Battered page numeral “384” removed from plates.   

*Jacket:* Enlarged version of 316a in moderate yellowish green (136) instead of grayish yellow green. (*Fall 1949*)   

>Front flap reset and revised:  <br> *Cities of the Plain* is the fourth of the seven volumes of Marcel Proust’s life work under the general title of *Remembrance of Things Past*. All seven volumes are now available in the Modern Library exclusively. . . . Each novel, complete and unabridged, is a separate entity and yet is an integral part of the grand design of Proust’s masterpiece. (*Spring 1956*)   

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span>   
Proust, *Swann’s Way* (1928–1971; 1977–1982) 166   
Proust, *Within a Budding Grove* (1930–1970) 194   
Proust, *Guermantes Way* (1933–1970) 264   
Proust, *The Captive* (1941–1970) 340   
Proust, *Sweet Cheat Gone* (1948–1971) 408   
Proust, *The Past Recaptured* (1951–1971) 443 