# MODERN LIBRARY SERIES 1941 

## 1941 

### General 

The last title added in 1941, Pascal’s *Pensées & The Provincial Letters* (345), was published a month before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. The next four years would be difficult, as publishers struggled with a huge increase in demand for books coupled with scarcity of resources, including paper rationing, the absence of personnel who served in the armed services, and other dislocations caused by the war. The end of the war in August 1945 was accompanied by rapid inflation and a wave of strikes that disrupted the return to a peacetime economy. It would be September 1948 before the Modern Library could announce, “Every title in the Modern Library and the Modern Library Giants is now back in stock for the first time since the war” (Modern Library advertisement, *Publishers’ Weekly*, September 17, 1948, p. 1095). 

### Number of titles 

Ten titles were added to the ML and ten were discontinued. The number of titles in the series remained at 219, the same as in 1940. 

### Title page 

Modern Library title pages continued to be individually designed by Joseph Blumenthal, the proprietor of the celebrated Spiral Press. He created the title pages himself, setting them at the Spiral Press and making electrotype plates for the use of the ML’s regular printer. 

### Binding 

The binding that Blumenthal designed for the ML’s 7¼ x 4⅞ inch format was introduced in fall 1939 and used through 1962. The bindings used smooth linen over stiff boards. Books were bound in red, blue, green, or gray cloth with inset rectangular panels in a contrasting color on the spine and front cover. Inset panels of red bindings were usually black or dark blue; the panels of blue bindings were usually red; those of green bindings were usually black; and those of gray bindings were usually green. Each printing of a given title was typically bound in a single color combination. The inset panels on the spine and front cover were framed in gold. Rockwell Kent’s torchbearer (facing right) was stamped in gold above the panel on the spine. The panel on the front cover had a second gold frame outside the colored inner panel, within which Kent’s torchbearer (facing left) was stamped in gold. 

### Endpaper 

The enlarged version of Rockwell Kent’s endpaper, redesigned to fit the ML’s 7¼ x 4⅞ inch format, was introduced in spring 1940 and used through spring 1967. The central panels of the paste-down and free endpapers featured Kent’s torchbearer surrounded by a pattern of open books and “ml” initials. The endpapers were printed in gray from fall 1940 through spring 1966. 

### Jackets 

Two 1941 titles (Saroyan, *Daring Young Man on the Flying Trapeze* and Bemelmans, *My War with the United States*) were originally published by Random House; their ML jackets were adapted from the RH jackets. The Saroyan jacket was designed by Ernest Reichl, and the jacket for *My War with the United States* featured an adaptation of one of Bemelmans’s illustrations. 

The jacket for Steinbeck, *The Grapes of Wrath* incorporated a reproduction of Thomas Hart Benton’s lithograph “Departure of the Joads” from his Grapes of Wrath series. Paul Galdone was responsible for three jackets: Hugo, *The Hunchback of Notre Dame* was an individually designed pictorial jacket; *Five Great Modern Irish Plays* and Lardner, *Collected Stories* featured a decorative non-pictorial design that was used on six ML titles between fall 1939 and the early 1940s. 

Pascal, *Pensées & The Provincial Letters*, had a typographic jacket that was clearly designed by Joseph Blumenthal. Three other predominately typographic jackets were probably also by Blumenthal, who signed none of his jackets. *The Federalist* featured a decorative image of an American eagle, Proust’s *The Captive* had a small silhouette of Proust in left profile that was also used on the other six titles of *Remembrance of Things Past*, and Plato’s *Republic* had an inset photographic image of a bust of Plato. 

### Price 

95 cents. 

### Dating keys 

(Spring) Hugo, *Hunchback of Notre Dame* xBemelmans, *My War with the United States*; Giants through G56; jackets: 271 (=spring 1940). (Fall) Bemelmans, *My War with the United States* xLewis, *Babbitt*; Giants through G58 with G20–21 Symonds, *Renaissance in Italy*; jackets: 278. 

### Titles sought, suggested, declined 

Cerf expressed interest in Ernest Hemingway’s *For Whom the Bell Tolls*, published by Charles Scribner’s Sons in 1940: “This is one book above almost any other that has been written in the past five years that I’d like to see on the Modern Library list when the time comes” (Cerf to Max Perkins, 23 July 1941). The ML never secured reprint rights. In 1953 Scribner’s served notice that it was withdrawing all three Hemingway titles in the ML—*The Sun Also Rises* (190), *A Farewell to Arms* (237), and *The Short Stories of Ernest Hemingway* (G59)—in order to publish their own reprint editions in all English-speaking markets in North America. 

Conrad Aiken repeated his suggestion for a ML edition of his first novel, *Blue Voyage*, published by Charles Scribner’s Sons in 1927 (Aiken to Cerf, 19 May 1941). Aiken edited several poetry anthologies for the ML, but he never had a book of his own in the series. 

### New titles 
Saroyan, *Daring Young Man on the Flying Trapeze* (1941–1948) 336 
Hugo, *Hunchback of Notre Dame* (1941–1971) 337 
*The Federalist* (1941– ) 338 
*Five Great Modern Irish Plays* (1941– ) 339 
Proust, *The Captive* (1941– ) 340 
Steinbeck, *Grapes of Wrath* (1941– ) 341 
Plato, *The Republic* (1941– ) 342 
Bemelmans, *My War with the United States* (1941– ) 343 
Lardner, *Collected Stories of Ring Lardner* (1941– ) 344 
Pascal, *Pensées; The Provincial Letters* (1941– ) 345

### Discontinued 
Beebe, *Jungle Peace* (1925) 
Ferber, *Show Boat* (1935) 
Heyward, *Porgy* (1934) 
Merejkowski, *Death of the Gods* (1929) 
Merejkowski, *Peter and Alexis* (1931) 
Newton, *Amenities of Book Collecting* (1935) 
Norris, *The Pit* (1934) 
Stein, *Three Lives* (1933) 
Wallace, *Ben Hur* (1933) 
Waugh, *Vile Bodies* (1933) 

#### ***Spring*** 

### 336 

**WILLIAM SAROYAN. THE DARING YOUNG MAN ON THE FLYING TRAPEZE. 1941–1948. (ML 92)** 

#### 336. First printing (1941) 

THE DARING | YOUNG MAN | ON THE | FLYING | TRAPEZE | *AND OTHER STORIES BY* | WILLIAM | SAROYAN | *with a new preface by the author* | [torchbearer E2 at right; 3-line imprint at left] THE | MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK | [rule] 

Pp. [i–x] xi–xv [xvi], 9–270 [271–280]. [1–8]<sup>16</sup> [9–10]<sup>8</sup> 

[i] half title; [ii] blank; [iii] title; [iv] COPYRIGHT, 1934, 1941, BY THE MODERN LIBRARY, INC. | FIRST *Modern Library* EDITION, 1941; [v] biographical note; [vi] blank; [vii] dedication; [viii] blank; [ix–x] *Contents*; xi–xv *Preface* | *by* | *William Saroyan* dated p. xv: *October 25, 1940* | *San Francisco.*; [xvi] blank; 9–13 *Preface* | *to the* | *First Edition*; [14] blank; [15] fly title; [16] blank; 17–270 text; [271–275] ML list; [276–277] ML Giants list; [278–280] blank. (*Spring 1941*) 

*Jacket:* Non-pictorial on cream paper printed in grayish yellow green (105) with title in ornamental lettering in deep orange (51), very dark green (147), and moderate greenish blue (173); subtitle and author in script lettering in very dark green and moderate greenish blue. Adapted from Ernst Reichl’s jacket for the original RH edition. The original jacket is signed “REICHL” in sans-serif capitals along the lower right margin. The reduction in size of the ML jacket is achieved by cropping the side and lower margins, resulting in the omission of his name. 

> Front flap:<br> When this volume first appeared in 1934 under the Random House imprint, William Saroyan’s meteoric flight across the literary skies was begun. For a book of short stories, it had an unprecedented success and was an augury of his continuing national fame. Since then William Saroyan has maintained his position among the foremost writers of America. Winner of the Drama Critics Circle award and also winner, but scorner, of the Pulitzer Prize for *The Time of Your Life*, he has achieved quite as sensational a name for himself in the field of the drama as in the short story. (*Spring 1941*) 

Originally published by Random House, 1934. ML edition (pp. [vii–x], 9–270) printed from RH plates with running heads removed to accommodate the ML’s smaller format and with page numerals 7–8 removed from the table of contents, which was revised to include Saroyan’s preface to the ML edition. Published January 1941. *WR* 25 January 1941. First printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued fall 1948. 

*The Daring Young Man on the Flying Trapeze* was one of the first trade titles published by Random House. Cerf and Klopfer quickly learned to design trade books that were potential candidates for the ML so that the plates would fit the ML’s format without resorting to major surgery such as the removal of running heads. 

The ML edition sold 5,347 copies during the eighteen-month period 1 May 1942–1 November 1943, placing it at the top of the third quarter of ML titles. Sales appear to have declined after the Second World War and the ML edition was discontinued in fall 1948. When Saroyan asked if it was out of print Cerf replied disingenuously that it was not out of print and that 3,000 copies of the ML edition remained on hand (Cerf to Saroyan, 5 April 1949). 

### 337 

**VICTOR HUGO. THE HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME. 1941–1971. (ML 35)** 

#### 337. First printing (1941) 

[torchbearer E3] | [6-line title and statement of responsibility within single rules] | THE | *Hunchback* | OF | *Notre Dame* | BY | VICTOR HUGO | [below frame] THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK 

Pp. [*6*], [1–5] 6–416 [417–426]. [1–13]<sup>16</sup> [14]<sup>8</sup> 

[*1*] half title; [*2*] blank; [*3*] title; [*4*] FIRST *Modern Library* EDITION, 1941; [*5*] biographical note; [*6*] blank; [1–3] CONTENTS.; [4] blank; [5]–416 text; [417–421] ML list; [422–423] ML Giants list; [424–426] blank. (*Spring 1941*) 

*Jacket:* Pictorial in strong greenish blue (169), very dark greenish blue (175) brilliant yellow (83) and black on coated cream paper depicting Quasimodo on rooftop with large gargoyles, overlooking Paris at night with new moon in brilliant yellow; lettering in reverse shaded in strong greenish blue. Signed: Galdone. 

> Front flap:<br> The perennial success of *Les Miserables* in the Modern Library has induced the editors to add Victor Hugo’s companion masterpiece, *The Hunchback of Notre Dame*, to the series. Adult readers of every taste and opinion turn back to these monumental novels of the Romantic School for escape [+and excitement] and solace, and new generations receive their first introduction to the world of good books by the discovery of such [+pulse-quickening] novels as *The Hunchback of Notre Dame*. Young and old are rewarded by a story that stirs the heart and kindles the imagination. (*Spring 1941; [Fall 1953]*) 

Anonymous translation previously published in U.S. by A. L. Burt Co. and other publishers. ML edition (pp. [5]–416) printed from Burt plates with the table of contents reset. Published January 1941. *WR* 25 January 1941. First printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued 1971/72. 

The anonymous nineteenth-century translation used by the ML was based on the first printing of Hugo’s *Notre-Dame de Paris* (1831) and does not include three chapters that Hugo added when the book was reprinted in December 1832. The added chapters consist of Book Four, Chapter 6, and Book Five, Chapters 1 and 2. (Books Five through Ten in the translation used by the ML are Books Six through Eleven in the second printing, and Book Four, Chapter 4 appears in the second printing as Chapters 4 and 5.) Hugo argued that the second printing was definitive but not “augmented” in the sense that it included newly written material. The three added chapters were part of the original manuscript but had been misplaced when the book was first printed. They surfaced in time to be included in the 1832 printing (Hugo, *Notre-Dame de Paris*, translated and edited by John Sturrock [London: Penguin Books, 2004], pp. 26–29). 

The absence of Book Five, Chapter 2, “Ceci teura cela” (This Will Kill That), is especially regrettable. Hugo argues in this chapter that the printing press had supplanted architecture as the primary medium for the public expression of human thought. Before printing, he writes, “during the world’s first six thousand years, from the most immemorial Hindustan pagoda to the cathedral of Cologne, architecture was the great script of the human race. And so true is this, that not only every religious symbol but also every human thought has its own page and its own monument in this immense book” (Penguin Books, 2004, p. 191). 

When the ML reprinted *The Hunchback of Notre Dame* in 1996 as part of the “relaunch” of the series that began in 1992 it used the anonymous and incomplete translation that had been in the series between 1941 and 1971. 

*The Hunchback of Notre Dame* sold 4,004 copies during the 18-month period 1 May 1942–1 November 1943, placing it low in the third quarter of ML and Giant titles. It did not rank among the 100 best-selling titles in the regular ML during the 12-month period November 1951–October 1952. Hugo’s *Les Misérables* (G3) was in first quarter of ML titles at both periods. 

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span> 
Hugo, *Les Misérables* (Giant, 1931–1973, 1980– ) G3 

### 338 

**THE FEDERALIST. 1941–1970. (ML 139)** 

#### 338a<sub>1</sub>. First printing, first state (1941)

THE FEDERALIST | *A COMMENTARY ON* | THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES | *Being a Collection of Essays written in Support of the | Constitution agreed upon September 17, 1787, by | the Federal Convention* | FROM THE ORIGINAL TEXT OF | ALEXANDER HAMILTON | JOHN JAY | JAMES MADISON | *With an introduction by* | EDWARD MEAD EARLE | *Professor of History, Institute for | Advanced Study, Princeton, N.J.* | [torchbearer D3 at right; 3-line imprint at left] THE | MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK | [rule] 

Pp. [i–iv] v–xlv [xlvi], [1–2] 3–575 [576], [*2*], 577–618 [619–624]. [1–20]<sup>16</sup> [21–22]<sup>8</sup> 

[i] half title; [ii] blank; [iii] title; [iv] FIRST MODERN LIBRARY EDITION | 1941 | 3-line acknowledgment to Carnegie Corporation of New York; 4-line dedication; v–xxi INTRODUCTION signed p. xxi: <span class="smallcaps">Edward Mead Earle</span> | *The Institute for Advanced Study* | *Princeton, New Jersey* | *May 14, 1937*; xxii BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE; xxiii–xxv THE AUTHORS OF THE FEDERALIST; [xxvi] blank; xxvii–xlv CONTENTS; [xlvi] blank; [1] fly title; [2] blank; 3–575 text; [576] blank; [*1*] part title: APPENDICES | AND | INDEX; [*2*] blank; 577–604 appendices: call for the Federal Constitutional Convention, Articles of Confederation, resolution transmitting the Constitution to Congress, Washington’s letter of transmittal, Constitution of the United States; 605–618 INDEX; [619–623] ML list; [624] blank. (*Spring 1941*) 

*Jacket A:* Pictorial in dark red (16) and black on light grayish yellowish brown paper (79) with illustration in dark red of an American eagle with arrows and olive branch perched on a shield; lettering in black. Text on front: THE | *Federalist* | THE EIGHTY-FIVE ESSAYS WRITTEN BY | *Alexander Hamilton* · *John Jay* · *James Madison* | WHICH PERSUADED THE FOUNDING | FATHERS TO ADOPT THE CONSTITUTION | OF THE UNITED STATES. 

> Front flap:<br> For every American who is eager to know the fundamental principles upon which the Government of the United States was established, the first source is *The Federalist*. These essays by Hamilton, Jay and Madison provided the arguments which persuaded the Founding Fathers to adopt the Constitution. They are required reading for an understanding of the ideal of representative government, now facing its most critical challenge in the one hundred and fifty years of America’s independence. By giving *The Federalist* the widest possible distribution at a cost within everybody’s purse, the Modern Library helps to explain the origins of our government to our people. (*Spring 1941*) 

Sesquicentennial Edition published by National Home Library Foundation, 1938. ML edition (pp. v–618) printed from National Home Library Foundation plates. Published January 1941. *WR* 25 January 1941. First printing: 5,000 copies. Discontinued 1970/71. 

The ML presented the National Home Library Foundation with a complete set of ML books in print in exchange for the free use of its plates. The first printing of the ML edition failed to acknowledge the Foundation. It included instead the following statement, adapted from the National Home Library Foundation edition: “Acknowledgment is made, with thanks, for the aid received from the *Carnegie Corporation of New York* in making possible this edition of *The Federalist*” (p. [iv]). The ML removed the title leaf of remaining copies of the first printing and tipped in a new title leaf which acknowledged the National Home Library Foundation on the verso (338a<sub>2</sub>). 

The ML edition sold 7,782 copies between 1 May 1942 and 1 November 1943, placing it low in the first quarter of ML titles. It sold 4,330 copies during the 12-month period November 1951–October 1952, retaining its place in the first quarter of ML titles. 

#### 338a<sub>2</sub>. First printing, second state (1941)

Title as 338a<sub>1.</sub> 

Pagination as 338a<sub>1.</sub> [1]<sup>16</sup>(±2) [2–20]<sup>16</sup> [21–22]<sup>8</sup> 

Contents as 338a<sub>1</sub> except pp. [iii–iv] removed and replaced by a newly printed sheet with the verso of the title page revised as follows: [iv] FIRST MODERN LIBRARY EDITION | 1941 | The publishers are indebted to the National Home | Library Foundation for making this edition possible | and wish to thank them for the courtesy extended in | the use of their plates. | [4-line dedication] *Note:* The second leaf (pp. [iii–iv]) with the acknowledgement to the Carnegie Corporation of New York (338a<sub>1</sub>) was removed from all copies in stock and replaced with a newly printed leaf with the acknowledgement to the National Home Library Foundation. 

*Jacket A:* As 338a<sub>1</sub>. *Note:* Some later printings on light bluish gray (191) paper. (*Fall 1946*) 

Sherman F. Mittell of the National Home Library Foundation informed Klopfer shortly after publication that the ML should have thanked the Foundation and that the acknowledgement to the Carnegie Corporation would have to be removed. Klopfer agreed to rip the title leaf out of every copy in stock and tip in a corrected leaf with the acknowledgment, “The publishers are indebted to the National Home Library Foundation for making this edition possible and wish to thank them for the courtesy extended in the use of their plates” (Klopfer to Mittell, 27 February 1941; Mittell to Klopfer, 4 March 1941). A sizable portion of the first printing appears to have been distributed before the cancellation and replacement of the title leaf. Copies of 338a<sub>2</sub> are notably harder to find than copies of 338a<sub>1</sub>. 

After Mittell’s death in 1942 his widow offered to sell the National Home Library Foundation plates to the ML. Cerf offered \$250, then raised his offer to \$350 (Cerf to Fanny Mittell, 10 August 1942). The offer appears to have been accepted. In 1960 Jason Epstein reported that the ML paid no royalty and owned the plates free and clear but still showed practically no profit per copy (Epstein to Willard A. Lockwood, 24 May 1960). 

#### 338b. Declaration of Independence added (1947) 

Title as 338a. 

Pp. [i–iv] v–xlv [xlvi], [1–2] 3–575 [576], [*2*], 577–622 [623–624]. [1–21]<sup>16</sup> 

Contents as 338a<sub>1</sub> except: [iv] 4-line acknowledgment to National Home Library Foundation; 4-line dedication; 619–622 The Declaration of Independence | of the United States; [623–624] blank. 

*Jacket A*: As 338a. (*Fall 1947*) 

*Jacket B:* As 338a with lines 5-7 rewritten: WHICH SUPPORTED THE FOUNDING FATHERS | IN THE ADOPTION OF THE | CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES (1953/early 1950s). 

> Front flap reset with “one hundred and fifty years” in third sentence changed to “one hundred and seventy-seven years” (*Fall 1961*) 

#### 338c. Printing for National Foundation for Education in American Citizenship (late 1940s?) 

Title page completely reset. Transcription as 338a through line 10; lines 11–20: WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY | EDWARD MEAD EARLE | *Professor of History, Institute for Advanced Study,* | *Princeton, N. J.* | SPECIAL EDITION PRINTED FOR | *NATIONAL FOUNDATION FOR* | *EDUCATION IN* | *AMERICAN CITIZENSHIP* | [short rule] | INDIANAPOLIS 

Pagination and collation as 338b. 

Contents as 338b except p. [iv] 3-line acknowledgment to National Home Library Foundation. 

*Jacket:* As 338a through line 4; line 5: ON THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES; line 6: illustration in grayish red of an American eagle with arrows and olive branch perched on a shield; lines 7–13: *Edition Printed for the* | CONSTITUTION DAY COMMITTEE | *Sponsored by the* | NATIONAL FOUNDATION FOR EDUCATION | IN AMERICAN CITIZENSHIP | Indianapolis 4 | New York  Washington; on light gray (264) paper. *Note:* The back flap, back panel, and inside of the jacket are devoted to information about the Foundation and its activities. 

> Front flap:<br> For every American who is eager to know the fundamental principles upon which the Government of the United States was established, the first source is *The Federalist*. These essays by Hamilton, Jay and Madison are required reading for an understanding of the ideal of representative government. 
> This edition is printed by the Modern Library for the National Foundation for Education in American Citizenship, a nonprofit, nonpolitical educational organization. 

The printing for the National Foundation for Education in American Citizenship was undertaken as a commission and was not a ML publication. The publication statement on the verso of the title page identifying Random House as the publisher of the Modern Library is omitted, as is the manufacturing statement. The only references to the Modern Library appear on the spine of the binding and the backstrip of the jacket. The ML’s regular binding and endpapers are used. 

### 339 

**FIVE GREAT MODERN IRISH PLAYS. 1941–1971. (ML 30)** 

#### 339. First printing (1941) 

FIVE GREAT | MODERN | IRISH PLAYS | *The Playboy of the Western World* | BY JOHN M. SYNGE | *Juno and the Paycock* BY SEAN O’CASEY | *Riders to the Sea* BY JOHN M. SYNGE | *Spreading the News* BY LADY GREGORY | *Shadow and Substance* BY PAUL VINCENT CARROLL | *WITH A FOREWORD BY* | GEORGE JEAN NATHAN | [torchbearer D2 at right; 3-line imprint at left] THE | MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK | [rule] 

Pp. [i–viii] ix–xiii [xiv], [1–2] 3–332 [333–338]. [1–10]<sup>16</sup> [11–12]<sup>8</sup> 

[i] half title; [ii] blank; [iii] title; [iv] COPYRIGHT, 1941, | BY THE MODERN LIBRARY, INC. | 11 lines of copyright notices for individual plays | FIRST *Modern Library* EDITION, 1941; [v] *Acknowledgments*; [vi] blank; [vii] *Contents*; [viii] blank; ix–xiii *Foreword* | BY | GEORGE JEAN NATHAN dated p. xiii: *New York City* | *Fall, 1940*; [xiv] blank; [1] part title: *The Playboy of the Western World* | A PLAY IN THREE ACTS | BY JOHN M. SYNGE; [2] blank; 3–4 PREFACE signed p. 4: J. M. S. | *January* 21, 1907; [5] CHARACTERS; [6] blank; 7–332 text; [333–337] ML list; [338] blank. (*Spring 1941*) 

> *Variant:* Pagination and collation as 339. Contents as 339 except: [iv] COPYRIGHT, 1941, | BY THE MODERN LIBRARY, INC. | 14 lines of copyright notices for individual plays, including renewals; [333–338] ML list. (*Spring 1958*) 

*Jacket:* Non-pictorial in strong yellowish green (131), gold and light yellow (86) on coated white paper with lettering in reverse on inset panel in strong yellowish green and three strong yellowish green below the inset panel, all surrounded by white background with decorations in gold and yellow. Designed by Paul Galdone in December 1940; unsigned. The jacket design in different color combinations was also used for *Collected Short Stories* *of Ring Lardner* (1941: 344), *Collected Stories of Dorothy Parker* (1942: 353), and four existing ML anthologies: *Best Ghost Stories* (1919: 67b), *Best American Humorous Short Stories* (1920: 80f), *Great Modern Short Stories* (1930: 188b), and *Great German Short Novels and Stories* (1933: 256b) when they appeared in the ML’s larger format in the early 1940s. 

> Front flap:<br> No nation has made a richer contribution to the recent literature of the theatre than Ireland. Her playwrights have brought about a renaissance of the drama in their own country and have earned the world’s admiration. The plays in this volume represent the finest flowering of the Irish genius in the drama, and include the complete texts of *The Playboy of the Western World* and *Riders to the Sea* by J. M. Synge, *Juno and the Paycock* by Sean O’Casey, *Spreading the News* by Lady Gregory and *Shadow and Substance* by Paul Vincent Carroll. George Jean Nathan provides a scintillating introduction. (*Spring 1941*) 

Original ML anthology. Published March 1941. *WR* 15 March 1941. First printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued 1971/72. 

The working title of the anthology when it was being planned was *Six Great Modern Irish Plays*. Cerf wanted to include William Butler Yeats’s one-act play, *Cathleen ni Houlihan*. He initially offered a flat fee of \$50 to include the play, then increased the offer to a \$100 advance against royalties of 1 percent of the list price. Mrs. Yeats did not reply to his letters. The Synge estate granted permission to include *The Playboy of the Western World* and *Riders to the Sea* for a \$200 advance against a 2 percent royalty. The Synge estate received the entire amount even though Random House, as Synge’s U.S. publisher, might have claimed half of it; the advance exceeded the total 1939 royalties for the RH edition of Synge’s *Complete Works* (Cerf to Denis Synge Stephens, 15 October 1940). Lady Gregory’s *Spreading the News* was obtained for a flat fee of \$25. 

The ML edition sold 3,393 copies during the eighteen-month period May 1942–October 1943, placing it high in the fourth quarter of ML titles. It did not rank among the 100 best-selling titles in the regular ML during the twelve-month period November 1951–October 1952. 

### 340 

**MARCEL PROUST. THE CAPTIVE. 1941–1970. (ML 120)** 

#### 340. First printing (1941) 

THE | CAPTIVE | BY | MARCEL PROUST | TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH BY | C. K. SCOTT MONCRIEFF | [torchbearer D5] | [rule] | THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK | [rule] 

Pp. [*10*], 1–563 [564–566]. [1–18]<sup>16</sup> 

[*1*] half title; [*2*] blank; [*3*] title; [*4*] COPYRIGHT, 1929, BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC. | FIRST *Modern Library* EDITION 1941; [*5*] biographical note and bibliography; [*6*] blank; [*7*] dedication; [*8*] blank; [*9*] CONTENTS; [*10*] blank; 1–563 text; [564–566] blank. 

> *Variant:* Pagination as 340. [1]<sup>16</sup> [2–9]<sup>32</sup> [10]<sup>16</sup>. Contents as 340 except: [*4*] COPYRIGHT, 1929, BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC. | COPYRIGHT, RENEWED, 1956, BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC.; [564] blank; [565–566] ML Giants list. (*Fall 1960*) 

*Jacket:* Pictorial in very deep red (14) and dark blue (183) on coated cream paper with lettering in reverse on very deep red background and left-profile silhouette of Proust in dark blue. 

> Front flap:<br> *Remembrance of Things Past* is the general title for the novels which constitute the life work of Marcel Proust. One by one, the seven independent titles which comprise the whole are being made available for readers of the Modern Library series. *Swann’s Way*, the first novel, is volume No. 59; *Within a Budding Grove*, No. 172, the second; the third, *The Guermantes Way*, is No. 213; the fourth, No. 220, is *Cities of the Plain*. Now *The Captive*, which was originally sold in a limited edition at fifteen dollars a copy, is the fifth title to be added to this impressive list. (*Spring 1941*) 

> Flap text revised: <br> *Remembrance of Things Past* is the general title for the seven novels which constitute the life work of Marcel Proust. Each is independent of the other, yet the entire mosaic of novels is integrated into a single, grand pattern. The individual titles which comprise the whole are now available in the Modern Library. (*Fall 1954*) 

Scott Moncrieff translation originally published in U.S. by Albert & Charles Boni, 1929; subsequently published by Random House. ML edition (pp. [*7*]–563) printed from Boni/RH plates with the sequence of the dedication and table of contents reversed. Published March 1941. *WR* 15 March 1941. First printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued 1970/71. 

The ML edition of *The Captive* sold 2,779 copies during the eighteen-month period 1 May 1942–1 November 1943, placing it in the fourth quarter of ML and Giant titles. The only Proust title among the 100 best-selling titles in the regular ML during the twelve-month period November 1951–October 1952 was *Swann’s Way*. 

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span> 
Proust, *Swann’s Way* (1928–1971; 1977–1982) 166 
Proust, *Within a Budding Grove* (1930–1970) 194 
Proust, *Guermantes Way* (1933–1970) 264 
Proust, *Cities of the Plain* (1938–1970) 316 
Proust, *The Sweet Cheat Gone* (1948–1971) 408 
Proust, *The Past Recaptured* (1951–1971) 443 

#### ***Fall*** 

### 341 

**JOHN STEINBECK. THE GRAPES OF WRATH. 1941–1959. (ML 148)** 

#### 341. First printing (1941) 

[torchbearer E3] | [5-line title and statement of responsibility within single rules] THE GRAPES | OF | WRATH | BY | John Steinbeck | [below frame] THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK 

Pp. [*8*], [1–2] 3–619 [620–632]. [1–20]<sup>16</sup> 

[*1*] half title; [*2*] blank; [*3*] title; [*4*] COPYRIGHT, 1939, BY JOHN STEINBECK | FIRST *Modern Library* EDITION, 1941; [*5*] biographical note; [*6*] blank; [*7*] dedication; [*8*] blank; [1] fly title; [2] blank; 3–619 text; [620] blank; [621–625] ML list; [626–627] ML Giants list; [628–632] blank. (*Fall 1941*) 

*Jacket A:* Pictorial in dark red (16), light bluish gray (190) and black on coated cream paper with reproduction of Thomas Hart Benton’s lithograph “Departure of the Joads” from his Grapes of Wrath series; lettering in dark red on light bluish gray background above and below Benton illustration. 

> Front flap:<br> No novel of our own time more certainly deserves the permanence assured by inclusion in the Modern Library series than *The Grapes of Wrath*. Universally hailed for its humanity and its power, this odyssey of the Okies will long remain not only a fiery social document, but will also endure as a magnificent work of literature. *The Grapes of Wrath* is the fourth John Steinbeck novel on the Modern Library shelf; the others are: *Tortilla Flat* (No. 216), *Of Mice and Men* (No. 29) and *In Dubious Battle* (No. 115). (*Fall 1941*) 

*Jacket B:* As jacket A in light greenish gray (154) instead of light bluish gray (*Fall 1958*). 

> Front flap rewritten:<br> Hailed for its humanity and power, this odyssey of the Okies as they took flight westward from their dust-ruined land will long remain an important social document. As a fictional account of a migration unique in American history, it will endure as a magnificent work of literature. *The Grapes of Wrath* is the novel by which John Steinbeck achieved his greatest fame. It is one of four of his books on the Modern Library shelf. The other three are *Tortilla Flat* (No. 216), *Of Mice and Men* (No. 29) and *In Dubious Battle* (No. 115). (*Spring 1954*) 

Originally published by Viking Press, 1939. ML edition (pp. [*7*]–619) printed from Viking plates. Published October 1941. *WR* 4 October 1941. First printing: 10,000 copies. Discontinued 31 December 1959. 

The Viking Press edition led the best-seller list in 1939 with sales of 300,000 copies (Hackett and Burke, p. 127). The ML paid Viking Press a \$2,000 advance against royalties of 10 cents a copy for non-exclusive reprint rights. There was a ML printing of 2,000 copies in December 1942; later printings included 4,000 copies each in May 1943 and June 1944. 

The ML edition sold 9,495 copies between 1 May 1942 and 1 November 1943, placing *The Grapes of Wrath* in the middle of the first quarter of ML and Giant titles. Sales declined to 3,964 copies during the 12-month period November 1951–October 1952, placing it toward the bottom of the first quarter of titles. 

In Chapter 30 (the last chapter) of Viking Press printings, the number of lines per page increases between the fifth printing (May 1939) and ninth printing (September 1939). The first page of Chapter 30 (p. 593) of the ninth printing has one more line than early printings; lines are shifted forward throughout the chapter, with the result that the last page of text (p. 619) has only four lines—five fewer than the fifth printing. The reason for the shift has not been determined. The plates used by the ML reflect the later configuration of Chapter 30. 

The ML’s reprint contract appears to have been terminated in 1958 when Viking Press published *The Grapes of Wrath* in its quality paperback series, Compass Books. The Modern Library edition was discontinued at the end of 1959. Original publishers normally allowed the ML to sell out its existing stock when a reprint contract was terminated. 

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span> 
Steinbeck, *Tortilla Flat* (1937–1971) 304 
Steinbeck, *Of Mice and Men* (1938– ) 311 
Steinbeck, *In Dubious Battle* (1939–1971) 322 

### 342 

**PLATO. THE REPUBLIC. 1941– . (ML 153)** 

#### 342a. First printing (1941) 

PLATO’S | The Republic | TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH BY | B. JOWETT, M.A. | *Master of Balliol College* · *Regius Professor of Greek* | *in the University of Oxford · Doctor in Theology of | the University of Leyden* | [torchbearer D3] | [rule] | THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK | [rule] 

Pp. [*4*], [1–2] 3–397 [398–404]. [1–12]<sup>16</sup> [13]<sup>8</sup> [14]<sup>4</sup> 

[*1*] half title; [*2*] blank; [*3*] title; [*4*] FIRST *Modern Library* EDITION, 1941; [1] fly title; [2] blank; 3–397 text; [398] blank; [399–403] ML list; [404] blank. (*Fall 1941*) 

> *Variant:* Pp. [*4*], [1–2] 3–397 [398–412]. [1–13]<sup>16</sup>. Contents as 342a except: [*4*] publication and manufacturing statements only; [399–404] ML list; [405–406] ML Giants list; [407–412] blank. (*Fall 1948*) 

*Jacket A:* Pictorial in strong blue (178), deep brown (56) and black on coated white paper with bust of Plato in deep brown and white on inset circular panel; title and torchbearer in reverse on strong blue background, other lettering in black. 

> Front flap:<br> For a long time the editors of the Modern Library have planned to include in the series the entire text of Plato’s *The Republic* in the definitive Jowett version. That plan is now achieved in the fullest measure in this volume, which not only provides the complete and unabridged translation of the most famous of the Socratic dialogues, but also gives all of Jowett’s marginalia and references. Here, for student and general reader alike, is Plato’s forever timely description of the ideal commonwealth. (*Fall 1941*) 

*Jacket B:* As jacket A except in moderate blue (182) instead of strong blue. 

> Front flap rewritten:<br> The entire text of Plato’s *The Republic* in the Benjamin Jowett translation is made available in the Modern Library series. At a time when interest in government, local and national, is of critical importance, the most famous of the Socratic dialogues offers guidance in the principles under which man can live in amity with his fellow-man. Now, just as it had four centuries before the Christian era, Plato’s description of the ideal commonwealth has a special timeliness; it outlines a pattern of government that free men can follow with trust and conviction. This edition includes, in addition to the complete and unabridged text, the Jowett references and marginal notes. (*Fall 1957*) 

ML edition printed from plates made from a new typesetting. Published October 1941. *WR* 4 October 1941. First printing: Not ascertained. 

The ML edition sold 9,569 copies during the 18-month period 1 May 1942–1 November 1943, placing it in the first quarter of regular ML and Giant titles. Sales increased to 7,187 copies during the 12-month period November 1951–October 1952, making *The Republic* the twentieth best-selling title in the ML. *The Works of Plato* (204) outsold *The Republic* at both periods. 

#### 342b. Title page reset; offset printing (c. 1967) 

[verso of double-page spread] [rule with curved downward edge at left] | PLATO | [rule with curved upward edge at left] | Translated by B. JOWETT, M.A. | [recto of double-page spread] [rule with curved downward edge at right] | THE REPUBLIC | [rule with curved upward edge at right] | THE MODERN LIBRARY New York | [torchbearer J] 

Pp. [*4*], [1–2] 3–397 [398–412]. [1–13]<sup>16</sup> 

Contents as 342a except: [*2*–*3*] title; [*4*] manufacturing and publication statements; [399–406] ML list; [407–408] ML Giants list; [409–412] blank. (*Spring 1967*) 

*Jacket:* As 342a jacket A except in grayish blue (186) and brownish orange (54). 

> Front flap as jacket B. 

Printed from offset plates photographically reduced from an earlier ML printing with title page, fly title, and p. 3 heading BOOK I | PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE reset. 

#### 342c. Reissue format (1982) 

PLATO’S | [title in reverse within single rules in reverse all on rectangular black panel] REPUBLIC | [below panel] TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH | BY B. JOWETT, M.A. | [torchbearer N] | MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK 

Pp. [*6*], [1–2] 3–397 [398–410]. Perfect bound. 

Contents as 342a except: [*1*–*2*] blank; [*3*] woodcut illustration by Stephen Alcorn of bearded man in toga seated at writing table; [*4*] blank; [*5*] title; [*6*] MODERN LIBRARY EDITION OCTOBER 1982; [1] woodcut illustration as p. [*3*]; [398–410] blank. 

*Jacket:* Pictorial in deep reddish orange (36) and black on kraft paper with woodcut illustration of bearded man in toga seated at writing table; lettering in black except title in reverse within single rules in reverse all on rectangular reddish orange panel. Jacket design by Robert Scudellari; woodcut illustration by Stephen Alcorn. 

> Front flap:<br> No philosopher has had as profound an influence on the history of Western thought as Plato, and perhaps no one work has shaped our conception of the ideal society as much as Plato’s *Republic*. The most important of the Socratic dialogues, the *Republic* is concerned with the construction of an ideal commonwealth and thus wins its place as the earliest of utopias. At the same time, it seeks to define the word “philosopher,” questions our perception of reality, and describes various constitutions, citing their relative merits and defects. But above all, the *Republic* is an attempt to define “justice”; by imagining the best possible State, Plato reasons, it will be easier to see what makes the just individual, and in his argument he shows himself at the peak of his dialectical and literary powers. 
> The text used here is the classic Jowett translation, complete and unabridged, with notes and marginalia for the student, scholar, and general reader alike. 

Published fall 1982 at \$7.95. ISBN 0-394-60813-5. 

Printed from offset plates with pp. 3–397 as 242b. 

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span> 
Plato, *Works of Plato* (1930– ) 204 

### 343 

**LUDWIG BEMELMANS. MY WAR WITH THE UNITED STATES. 1941–1948. (ML 175)** 

#### 343. First printing (1941) 

Ludwig Bemelmans | My War with the United States | Illustrated by the Author | The Modern Library | New York | [drawing of fort and cannon with turret of fort extending upward to the left of place of publication] 

Pp. [*2*], [1–8] 9–151 [152–158]. [1–10]<sup>8</sup> 

[*1*–*2*] blank; [1] half title; [2] blank; [3] title; [4] COPYRIGHT, 1937, BY LUDWIG BEMELMANS | FIRST *Modern Library* EDITION, 1941; [5] Contents; [6] blank; [7] fly title; [8] blank; 9–10 Foreword; 11–151 text; [152–158] blank. *Note:* *First* statement retained on all printings. The first printing is on thicker paper than most of the later printings, and there is no list of titles inside the jacket. 

*Jacket:* Pictorial in moderate greenish blue (173), moderate yellow (87) and black on cream paper with drawing of a fort and cannon in black and moderate greenish blue against moderate yellow background; lettering in black except last two words of title in moderate greenish blue outlined in black. Adapted from the jacket of the Viking Press edition with a short quotation from Ralph Thompson and the words “A MODERN LIBRARY BOOK” replacing the name of the original publisher at the foot of the front panel. Hansen (p. 188) attributes the design of the ML jacket to George Salter; the jacket illustration is a reworking of the Bemelmans drawing on the title page. 

> Front flap:<br> What this country really needs is an entertaining story of its own foibles in wartime. Bemelmans’ *My War with the United States* fulfils that need and provides a welcome antidote to the national jitters. It persuades you by its honesty and its charm that life in the American Army can be anything from a consecration to a lark. Both amiable and wise, his book is a special gem of eccentric literature, and its illustrations cannot fail to bring a happy chuckle to soldier and civilian alike. This is the first Bemelmans book to appear in a reprint edition. 

Originally published by Viking Press, 1937. ML edition (pp. [3], [5]–151) printed from offset plates photographically reduced from the Viking Press edition with the title-page imprint revised. Published October 1941. *WR* 4 October 1941. First printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued fall 1948. 

The verso of the title page contains the boilerplate statement, “Manufactured in the United States of America | Printed by Parkway Printing Company Paper by Richard Bauer & Co. | Bound by H. Wolff”. The ML’s regular printers, Parkway Printing, did not have an offset department before 1955. The ML edition was printed by a company that specialized in offset lithography. The ML probably submitted its standard manufacturing statement to the printer, though it is possible that Parkway subcontracted the job. 

There are enough blank pages at the end of the volume to accommodate a ML list, but the lists of titles at the end of other ML volumes were printed from letterpress plates, which were incompatible with offset printing. 

The jacket also appears to have been printed by offset lithography, and the inside of the first printing of the jacket is blank. Later printings of the jacket, including a printing that probably dates from spring 1942, include ML lists. The ML may have photographed subsequent lists so they could be included in later offset printings of the jacket. 

The ML edition was published two months before the attack on Pearl Harbor and American entry into the Second World War. Early ML printings are on thicker and stiffer paper than most ML titles, probably to enhance the reproduction of the text and illustrations by offset lithography. Later printings are on noticeably thinner paper because of wartime paper shortages. 

The ML edition sold 4,495 copies during the 18-month period May 1942–October 1943, placing it in the third quarter of regular ML and Giant titles. 

### 344 

**RING LARDNER. THE COLLECTED SHORT STORIES OF RING LARDNER. 1941–1956. (ML 211)** 

#### 344. First printing (1941) 

[torchbearer D5] | [5-line title and statement of responsibility within single rules] The Collected | Short Stories | OF | RING | LARDNER | [below frame] THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK 

Pp. [i–vi] vii–viii, 3–467 [468–474]. [1–14]<sup>16</sup> [15–16]<sup>8</sup> 

[i] half title; [ii] blank; [iii] title; [iv] *Copyright*, 1924, 1926, 1929, *by Charles Scribner’s Sons* | *Copyright*, 1925, 1926, 1927, 1928, 1929, *by International* | *Magazine Company, Inc.* | *Copyright*, 1925, 1926, *by Coloroto Corporation* | FIRST MODERN LIBRARY EDITION, 1941 | Originally published under the title of *Round Up*; [v] biographical note; [vi] blank; vii–viii CONTENTS; 3–467 text; [468] blank; [469–473] ML list; [474] blank. (*Fall 1941*) 

*Jacket A:* Non-pictorial in vivid orange (48), light yellow (86) and gold on coated cream paper with lettering in reverse on inset vivid orange panel and three vivid orange bands below the inset panel, all surrounded by cream background with decorations in light yellow and gold; spine in gold with lettering in black. Designed by Paul Galdone, unsigned. *Note:* The jacket design in different color combinations was also used in fall 1941 for *Five Great Modern Irish Pla*ys (339), fall 1942 for *Collected Short Stories of Dorothy Parker* (353), and for four existing ML anthologies when they appeared in the ML’s larger format in the early 1940s: *Best Ghost Stories* (1919: 67b), *Best American Humorous Short Stories* (1920: 80f), *Great Modern Short Stories* (1930: 188b), and *Great German Short Novels and Stories* (1933: 256b). 

> Front flap:<br> In his lifetime Ring Lardner was briefly described as a writer of humorous dialect, a baseball satirist and generally a funny fellow. This injustice to his reputation has been completely revised since his death by a new estimate of his place among the world’s great story–tellers. Now he is as much admired for his vigor and warmth and unfailing sense of the dramatic as for his irrepressible humor. *The Collected Short Stories of Ring Lardner*—thirty-five in all—represent, in John Chamberlain’s opinion, “The full measure of the talent of the man who is pre-eminently our best short story writer.” (*Fall 1941*) 

*Jacket B:* As jacket A except in black, vivid orange (48), light yellow (86) and gold with inset panel in black instead of vivid orange. (*Fall 1944*) 

Originally published as *Round Up: The Stories of Ring W. Lardner* by Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1929. ML edition (pp. vii–467) printed from Scribner plates with fly title omitted. Published November 1941. *WR* 8 November 1941. First printing: 5,000 copies. Discontinued fall 1956. 

The ML paid Scribner’s a \$1,000 advance against royalties of 10 cents a copy. Cerf had tried to get Lardner’s stories for the ML on several occasions before Scribner’s agreed to a reprint edition. He noted in spring 1941 when he requested permission to include the book in the fall, “It is a glaring omission on our list and it has been commented on so many times that I am getting tired of hearing it” (Cerf to Max Perkins, 1 May 1941). There was a second printing of 4,000 copies in March 1942 and a third printing of 3,000 copies in January 1943. 

The ML edition sold 7,800 copies during the 18-month period 1 May 1942–1 November 1943, placing it in the first quarter of regular ML and Giant titles. It did not rank among the 100 best-selling titles in the regular ML during the 12-month period November 1951–October 1952. 

### 345 

**BLAISE PASCAL. PENSÉES; THE PROVINCIAL LETTERS. 1941–1970. (ML 164)** 

#### 345. First printing (1941) 

PENSÉES | [short swelled rule] | THE | PROVINCIAL | LETTERS | *by* | BLAISE PASCAL | [torchbearer D5 at right; 3-line imprint at left] THE | MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK | [rule] 

Pp. [i–iv] v–xvi, [1–2] 3–620 [621–624]. [1–20]<sup>16</sup> 

[i] half title; [ii] blank; [iii] title; [iv] COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC. | FIRST *Modern Library* EDITION, 1941 | *Pensées* translated by W. F. Trotter | *The Provincial Letters* translated by Thomas M’Crie; v–viii CONTENTS; ix–xvi INTRODUCTION signed p. xvi: *July, 1941* <span class="smallcaps">Saxe Commins</span>; [1] part title: PENSÉES; [2] blank; 3–321 text; [322] blank; [323] part title: THE PROVINCIAL LETTERS; [324] blank; 325–620 text; [621–624] blank. 

*Jacket:* Non-pictorial in dark reddish orange (38) and black on cream paper; background of front panel and backstrip in dark reddish orange with titles and torchbearer in reverse and other lettering in black. 

> Front flap:<br> The two works upon which Pascal’s enduring fame rests are *Pensées* and *The Provincial Letters*. Now, at last, they are made available, as they always should have been, in a single, complete and unabridged volume. One of the world’s greatest declarations of faith, *Pensées* has given sustenance over a period of three hundred years to men of inquiring minds who are assailed by doubt. Considered a masterpiece of religious controversy, *The Provincial Letters* are the product of one of the most unusual scientific intellects of all time applied to the humane purpose of liberalizing religious doctrine. (*Fall 1941*) 

Trotter and M’Crie translations previously published in Harvard Classics and other editions. ML edition printed from plates made from a new typesetting. Published November 1941. *WR* 8 November 1941. First printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued 1970/71. 

The estimate for typesetting and making electroplates was \$876.95. 

The ML edition sold 2,523 copies during the 18-month period 1 May 1942 and 1 November 1943, placing it in the fourth quarter of regular ML and Giant titles. It was not among the 100 best-selling titles in the regular ML, November 1951–October 1952. Sales totaled 43,403 copies by spring 19558. 