# MODERN LIBRARY SERIES 1945 

## 1945 

### General 

During the first part of 1945, the lists of out-of-stock Modern Library titles got longer. In the later part of 1945, no Giants were available except the newly published *Anthology of Famous English and American Poetry*. There was no prospect of the Modern Library being completely in-stock again, Cerf wrote, for “a full year from now or even longer, depending entirely on the progress of the global war and the restoration of the normal paper supply in the book business” (Cerf to H. Hugh Herbert, 26 April, 1945). 

### Number of titles 

Eight titles were added and two were discontinued, bringing the total number of ML titles to 245. 

### Format 

All new titles issued in 1945 in the regular ML were published in the standard format used over the war years with the binding measuring 7¼ x 4⅞ in. (183 x 123 mm) and leaves trimmed to 7 x 4¾ (177 x 118 mm). Bindings were red, blue, green or gray. 

Inset panels of red bindings were usually black or dark blue; the panels of blue bindings were usually red; those of green bindings were usually black; and those of gray bindings were usually green. 

The inset panels on the spine and front cover were framed in gold. Kent’s torchbearer (facing right) was stamped in gold above the panel on the spine. The panel on the front cover had a second gold frame outside the colored inner panel, within which Kent’s torchbearer (facing left) was stamped in gold on all titles. 

Rockwell Kent’s endpapers were medium gray (265) and consisted of a central panel of 1¾ x 1⅜ inches featuring the Kent torchbearer, surrounded by a pattern of books and the initials “ml” with the torchbearers. 

### Price 

95 cents. 

### Dating keys 

(Spring) Henry, *Best Short Stories* xIrving, *Selected Writings*; Giants through G66; jackets: 304. (Fall) Irving, *Selected Writings*; xHersey, *Bell for Adano*; Giants through G67; jackets: 306. 

### Titles sought, suggested, declined 

No information available. 

### New titles 
Nevins and Commager, *Short History of the United States* (1945) 376 
Henry, *Best Short Stories of O. Henry* (1945) 377 
Maule, ed., *Great Tales of the American West* (1945) 378 
Fast, *The Unvanquished* (1945) 379 
Linscott, ed., *Best American Humorous Short Stories* (1945) 380 
Dana, *Two Years before the Mast* (1945) 381 
Irving, *Selected Writings of Washington Irving* (1945) 382 
Maupassant, *Best Short Stories* (1945) 383 
Rousseau, *The Confessions of Jean Jacques Rousseau* (384), was scheduled for publication in fall 1945, and the first printing has the statement “FIRST MODERN LIBRARY EDITION, 1945” on the verso of the title page. Publication appears to have been delayed until spring 1946, and it is entered as a 1946 title. 

### Discontinued 
Jessup, ed., *Best American Humorous Short Stories* (1920)\* 
Rabelais, *Gargantua and Pantagruel* (1928)\*\* 

\*Superseded by Linscott, ed., *Best American Humorous Short Stories* (1945) 380 
\*\*Superseded by Rabelais, *Complete Works* (1944) G66 

#### ***Spring*** 

### 376 

**ALLAN NEVINS and HENRY STEELE COMMAGER. A SHORT HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES. 1945– . (ML 235)** 

#### 376.1a. First printing (1945) 

A SHORT | HISTORY OF | THE | UNITED | STATES | *by* | ALLAN NEVINS | *and* | HENRY STEELE COMMAGER | [torchbearer D2] | [rule] | THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK | [rule] 

Pp. [i–viii] ix–xi [xii–xvi], 1–528. [1–17]<sup>16</sup> 

[i] half title; [ii] blank; [iii] title; [iv] COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY LITTLE, BROWN AND COMPANY | [2-line rights statement] | COPYRIGHT, 1945, BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC. | FIRST *Modern Library* EDITION, 1945; [v] poem by Stephen Vincent Benét, “Listen to the People”; [vi] blank; [vii] ACKNOWLEDGMENTS; [viii] blank; ix–xi PREFACE signed p. xi: <span class="smallcaps">Allan Nevins</span> | <span class="smallcaps">Henry Steele Commager</span>; [xii] blank; [xiii] CONTENTS; [xiv] blank; [xv] MAPS; [xvi] blank; 1–511 text; [512] blank; 513–528 INDEX. 

> *Variant:* As 376.1a except p. [iv] lines 6–12 added: [short swelled rule] | The Modern Library edition of *A Short History of the* | *United States* was originally published by Little, Brown | & Company under the title *America: The Story of a | Free People*. It contains, in addition, a special section, | pages 493 to 511, which brings the history up to the | presidential campaign of 1944. (*Fall 1945 jacket*) 

*Jacket A:* Pictorial in deep red (16), grayish olive (110), and black on pale orange yellow (73) paper with decorative illustration of an American eagle; in black and deep red; title in deep red, black, and grayish olive, other lettering in black. Statement at foot of front panel: “With a special chapter by the authors which brings the chronicle up to the summer of 1944.” 

> Front flap:<br> For many years the editors of the Modern Library have sought a concise and compact history of our country which would be both authoritative and eminently readable. In the vast literature of the nation’s development no book so completely and comprehensively fulfills these requirements as the work of Allan Nevins and Henry Steele Commager, both professors of history at Columbia University. They have provided for this edition a special section which brings their chronicle up to the immediate present. (*Spring 1945*) 

Originally published as *America: The Story of a Free People* by Little, Brown & Co., 1942; reprinted in paperback as *The Pocket History of the United States* (Pocket Books, 1943). ML edition printed from plates made from a new typesetting with an added chapter on “The Second World War” (pp. 493–511). Published February 1945. *WR* 24 February 1945. 

Cerf initially expressed interest in adding a concise history of the United States to the ML in 1940. He wrote to Frank Monaghan, an assistant professor of history at Yale: 

> I am crazy to have a clear, concise and up-to-the-minute history of the United States in our Modern Library and wonder if you would be interested in discussing with me the possibility of either writing the book yourself or at least collaborating on such a project. 
> You will be amazed to hear that there is no such book on the market. Thousands of refugees are clamoring for a short history of the country, written without bias and not as a textbook, priced within their reach. In addition, many thousands of native born Americans are more interested in their country today than has ever been the case before (Cerf to Monaghan, 30 October 1940). 

Monaghan was interested and described the book he envisioned: “It should have the epic sweep and the implications of Beethoven and Wagner, the salt and twang of a Woody Guthrie ballad. . . . It should be better than Green’s *Short History of the English People*” (Monaghan to Cerf, 24 November 1940). The contract, signed in February 1941, called for the manuscript to be delivered by 1 July 1942. The book was to be published initially as a Random House trade book followed by a ML edition. The contract called for payment of up to \$1,500 in expenses; Monaghan would receive royalties for the trade edition at the standard sliding scale of 10% of the list price for the first 2,500 copies, 12½% for the next 2,500 copies, and 15% thereafter. Royalties for the ML edition would be 10 cents a copy. 

Cerf reported in May 1941 that the announcement of Monaghan’s book “caused more enthusiasm than any publicity release that was ever sent out from this office” (Cerf to Monaghan, 1 May 1941). In September Monaghan indicated that the book was half written (Monaghan to Cerf, 22 September 1941). Monaghan received an additional advance of \$500 in September 1942, but he had many other ongoing projects and the book was never completed. 

Cerf’s last letter to Monaghan was dated 2 September 1943: 

> At the time we discussed the project I remember begging you not to take it on unless you were absolutely sure you could deliver. I impressed upon you the fact that if you couldn’t do the book in time, we would attempt to find somebody else who would. 
> Obviously I made a colossal mistake in judgment when I entrusted this book to you. Had you turned out nothing else since the time you signed the contract, I could have understood your failure to live up to your promise, but I have seen not only your work on Old New York, but that lengthy manuscript on the History of the World that you brought us yourself and that was obviously done on the time that you should have spent finishing the HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES. 
> It seems to me that the least that you could have done was to tell us that you couldn’t do the job as soon as you decided on taking up your other work, thus giving us the opportunity of finding somebody else to do what we wanted before other publishers beat us to the draw. 
> I simply cannot understand dealings of this sort (Cerf to Monaghan, 2 September 1943). 

Shortly before Cerf wrote his final letter to Monaghan, Klopfer, who was serving in the U.S. Air Force, wrote to Cerf suggesting “a small illustrated book of the documents of democracy and our own history.” He noted that either Allan Nevins or Henry Steele Commager would do a fine job editing the volume (Klopfer to Cerf, 4 July 1943, in Cerf and Klopfer, *Dear Donald, Dear Bennett*, p. 87). 

The following month Cerf expressed interest in a ML edition of Nevins and Commager’s history, titled *America: The Story of a Free People* in its original edition and *The Pocket History of the United States* in the paperback reprint (Pocket Books, February 1943). Cerf referred to it in *Saturday Review of Literature* as “the best short ‘History of the United States’ on the market” and noted that the Pocket Books edition had sold half a million copies (“Trade Winds,” *SRL*, 14 August 1943, p. 14). 

Cerf offered Little, Brown a \$2,500 advance for a ML edition, but Alfred McIntyre, the president of Little, Brown, indicated that it was selling too well for a ML edition to be considered. In any case, he added, Pocket Books controlled all rights to editions selling for less than two dollars (Cerf to McIntyre, Little, Brown & Co., 17 September 1943; McIntyre to Cerf, 20 September 1943). Cerf’s next step was to offer Pocket Books a \$4,000 advance. Robert de Graff of Pocket Books promised to do what he could to secure Little, Brown’s approval (Cerf to Commager, 7 December 1943). It appears to have taken another six months for everything to be settled. By June Cerf was asking Commager about an introduction to the ML edition (Cerf to Commager, 20 June 1944). Klopfer indicated later that the ML’s contract was with Pocket Books and royalties were paid to them (Klopfer to Knopf, 23 March 1962). 

Successive ML editions of *A Short History of the United States* sold over 100,000 copies prior to 1969. It sold 3,685 copies during November 1951–October 1952, placing it high in the second quarter of ML and Giant titles during this 12-month period. 

#### 376.1b. Chapter on Second World War revised and reset (1951) 

Title as 376.1a. 

Pp. [*2*], [i–viii] ix–xi [xii–xvi], [*2*], 1–552 [553–556]. [1–18]<sup>16</sup> 

Contents as 376.1a variant except: [*1*–*2*] blank; [iv] *First* statement omitted; [*1*] fly title; [*2*] blank; 1–532 text; 533–552 INDEX; [553–556] blank. *Note:* The subject matter of the twelve maps remains the same as 376.1a, but all of the maps are redrawn. 

*Jacket B:* As 376.1a except statement at foot of front panel: “With a special chapter by the authors which brings the chronicle up to date.” (*Spring 1951*) 

Chapter 21, “The Second World War,” was substantially revised and completely reset. It was 21 pages longer than 376.1a. The index, which was also completely reset, increased in length by four pages. 

In Chapter 3, “The Conquest of New France and the Movement for Independence,” the sentence “The second era had for its most prominent feature the missionary activity of a band of devoted men, representing the Franciscans, the Recollects, the Ursulines, and above all the Jesuits” (376.1a, p. 64, line 19), was changed to “activity of a band of devoted people” (376.1b, p. 64, line 19). The change from “men” to “people” reflected the realization that the Ursulines were a teaching order of nuns. 

A revised Pocket Books edition containing the new chapter on the Second World War and additional revisions not in ML 376.1b was published in February 1951, but it retained the reading “a band of devoted men” (Pocket Books, rev. ed., 1951, p. 59). 

The “new enlarged edition” (376.2) published in the ML in 1956 was photographically reproduced from the 1956 Pocket Books edition and reverts to the reading “a band of devoted men” (376.2, p. 59). The 5th edition of *A Short History of the United States* (Knopf, 1966), which was reprinted in the ML in 1969, also retains the reading “a band of devoted men” (376.3, p. 63). 

#### 376.2. New bibliographical edition with revised text (1956) 

A SHORT HISTORY | OF THE | UNITED | STATES | *by* | ALLAN NEVINS | *and* | HENRY STEELE COMMAGER | [short french rule] | NEW ENLARGED EDITION | [torchbearer E5] | *The Modern Library* NEW YORK 

Pp. [i–v] vi–viii [ix–x], [*2*], 1–593 [594–596]. [1]<sup>16</sup> [2–8]<sup>32</sup> [9]<sup>16</sup> [10]<sup>32</sup> [11]<sup>16</sup> 

[i] half title; [ii] blank; [iii] title; [iv] *Copyright, 1942, 1951, 1956, by Allan Nevins and* | *Henry Steele Commager*; [v]–vi Preface signed p. vi: A<span class="smallcaps">llan</span> N<span class="smallcaps">evins</span> | H<span class="smallcaps">enry</span> S<span class="smallcaps">teele</span> C<span class="smallcaps">ommager</span>; vii–viii Contents; [ix] List of Maps; [x] blank; [*1*] fly title; [*2*] blank; 1–558 text; [559] part title: BIBLIOGRAPHY; [560] blank; [561–579] Bibliography; [580] blank; [581] part title: INDEX; [582] blank; 583–593 INDEX; [594] blank; [595–596] ML Giants list. (*Spring/fall 1958*) *Note:* The subject matter of the twelve maps remains the same as 376.1b except “The American Empire” (376.1b, p. 419) is replaced by a new map, “War in Korea” (376.2, p. 532). Once again the maps have all been redrawn. 

*Jacket C:* As 376.1a except statement in deep red (16) at foot of front panel: “NEW ENLARGED EDITION.” 

> Front flap revised:<br> “There is no parallel in modern history,” say the authors in their preface to this book, “to the drama of the swift expansion of a small and feeble people across a continent, the growth of a few straggling colonies into the most powerful of nations.” 
> It is this story of a people passionately dedicated to the ideals of democracy that is here told in compact and eminently readable form. The authors, both professors of history at Columbia University, are among the most distinguished historians of our time and this book reflects throughout their authoritative knowledge and perspectives. (*Spring 1958*) 

ML edition (376.2, pp. [v]–viii [ix‑x], [*2*],1–593) printed from offset plates photographically reproduced and slightly enlarged from *A Pocket History of the United States*, New enl. ed. (Pocket Books, 1956), with the fly title (p. [*1*]) revised from “A POCKET HISTORY | OF THE | UNITED STATES” to “A SHORT HISTORY | OF THE | UNITED STATES.” 

The Pocket Books edition added chapters 22–25 (“The Cold War,” “Postwar Problems, 1946–1952,” “The Korean War: Eisenhower President,” and “The Eisenhower Administration”). It also added a bibliography, an additional map (“War in Korea,” p. 532), and a revised index. All of the additions were retained in ML printings. 

#### 376.3. New bibliographical edition with revised text; 7½ inch format (1969) 

[slightly swelled rule] | [6-line title and statement of responsibility within single rules] A | Short History | OF THE | United States | *by Allan Nevins and* | *Henry Steele Commager* | [below frame] [slightly swelled rule] | *Fifth Edition, Revised and Enlarged* | [torchbearer K] | The Modern Library *New York* 

Pp. [i–iv] v–x, [1–2] 3–668, i–xxvi. [1–22]<sup>16</sup> 

[i] half title; [ii] blank; [iii] title; [iv] MODERN LIBRARY EDITION, NOVEMBER 1969 | Copyright 1942 by Little, Brown and Company, Copyright 1945 by | Random House, Inc., Copyright 1951, © 1956, 1966 by Allan Nevins | and Henry Steele Commager.; v–vi PREFACE signed p. vi: ALLAN NEVINS · HENRY STEELE COMMAGER; vii–viii CONTENTS; ix–x MAPS; [1] fly title; [2] blank; 3–651 text; 652–668 Suggested Readings; i–xxvi Index. *Note:* The twelve maps are reprinted from a variety of sources, and their subject matter differs from earlier printings. 

*Jacket D1:* Fujita pictorial jacket in brownish orange (54), deep reddish orange (38), and black on coated white paper with inset illustration of an American eagle perched on a drum draped with an American flag, with two muskets under the drum and banners in the background; authors in black, first two line of title in deep reddish orange, and “UNITED | STATES” in reverse, all against brownish orange background. 

> Front flap:<br> In the twenty-odd years since its first publication this authoritative and clearly written book, by two of our most distinguished historians, has established itself as a standard work for the general reader interested in a broad perspective of his country’s past. This new edition has been revised and updated—through the 1964 elections—and twelve maps have been added. 

*Jacket D2:* As jacket D1 with SBN 394-60235-8 added at foot of back panel. 

Fifth edition originally published by Alfred A. Knopf, 1966. ML edition (pp. [i], v–x, [1]–668, i–xxvi) printed from offset plates photographically reduced from the Knopf edition with illustrations omitted and the list of maps moved to pp. ix–x in place of the list of illustrations; Suggested Readings at the end of the volume renumbered 652–668. ML edition published November 1969 at \$2.45. First printing: 6,000 copies. 

The Suggested Readings in the Knopf edition begin on p. 653 and end on p. 669, with blank verso pages following the last page of text and the last page of Suggested Readings. Utilization of the two blank pages allowed the ML to print its edition in 22 gatherings of 16 leaves (32 pages) each. 

### 377 

**O. HENRY. THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF O. HENRY. 1945– . (ML 4; ML 26)** 

#### 377.1. First printing (1945) 

THE BEST | SHORT | STORIES OF | O. HENRY | *Selected and with an Introduction by* | BENNETT A. CERF | AND | VAN H. CARTMELL | [torchbearer E1] | [rule] | THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK | [rule] 

Pp. [i–iv] v–x, [*2*], [1] 2–338 [339–340]. [1–10]<sup>16</sup> [11–12]<sup>8</sup> 

[i] half title; [ii] blank; [iii] title; [iv] COPYRIGHT, 1899, 1901, 1902, 1903, 1904, 1905, 1906, 1907, | 1908, 1909, 1910, 1911, 1945, | BY DOUBLEDAY, DORAN AND COMPANY, INC. | [8 lines of additional copyright statements and rights statement] | *First* MODERN LIBRARY *Edition*, 1945; v–vi *Contents*; vii–x *Introduction* signed p. x: <span class="smallcaps">Bennett Cerf</span> and <span class="smallcaps">Van Cartmell</span> | *<span class="smallcaps">J</span>anuary <span class="smallcaps">1945</span>*.; [*1*] fly title; [*2*] blank; [1]–338 text; [339–340] blank. 

*Contents:* The Gift of the Magi – A Cosmopolite in a Café – Man About Town – The Cop and the Anthem – The Love-Philtre of Ikey Schoenstein – Mammon and the Archer – Springtime à la Carte – From the Cabby’s Seat – An Unfinished Story – The Romance of a Busy Broker – The Furnished Room – Roads of Destiny – The Enchanted Profile – The Passing of Black Eagle – A Retrieved Reformation – The Renaissance at Charleroi – Shoes – Ships – The Hiding of Black Bill – The Duplicity of Hargraves – The Ransom of Red Chief – The Marry Month of May – The Whirligig of Life – A Blackjack Bargainer – A Lickpenny Lover – The Defeat of the City – Squaring the Circle – Transients in Arcadia – The Trimmed Lamp – The Pendulum – Two Thanksgiving Day Gentlemen – The Making of a New Yorker – The Lost Blend – A Harlem Tragedy – A Midsummer Knight’s Dream – The Last Leaf – The Count and the Wedding Guest – A Municipal Report. 

*Jacket A1:* Pictorial in medium blue (187) on uncoated cream paper with inset multi-color illustration of a couple seated on a park bench, policeman passing by, and a hansom cab in background; lettering in reverse on deep blue background. Typographic design by Joseph Blumenthal; illustration signed: WS [William Sharp]. 

> Front flap:<br> In selecting thirty-eight of the more than 600 stories written by O. Henry, the editors of this volume first chose those honored unanimously by anthologists and then added several of special interest. The most exacting present-day standards were applied as the final test of admission, with the result that this collection in the truest sense represents America’s favorite story-teller at his mellow, humorous and ironic best. It is with such stories as these that O. Henry earned a permanent place beside the world’s great masters of the short story. (*Spring 1945*) 

> Front flap revised:<br> The more than 600 stories written by O. Henry provided an embarrassment of riches for the compilers of this volume. Within the scope of a book of 338 pages, they were guided in their choice by the most exacting present-day standards of admission. The final selection of the thirty-eight stories in this collection offers for the reader’s delight those tales honored almost unanimously by anthologists and those which represent, in variety and balance, the best work of America’s favorite story-teller. They are tales in his most mellow, humorous and ironic moods. They give the full range and flavor of the man, born William Sidney Porter, but known throughout the world as O. Henry, one of the great masters of the short story. (*Spring 1957*) 

Originally published by Sun Dial Press, an imprint of Doubleday, Doran & Co. 1945. ML edition (pp. v–338) printed from Doubleday, Doran plates. Published April 1945. *WR* 5 May 1945. First printing: Not ascertained. 

*The Best Short Stories of O. Henry* was a joint venture between the ML and Doubleday, Doran. Van H. Cartmell, who collaborated with Cerf in the 1940s in editing four anthologies of plays that were published in ML Giants, was an associate editor at Doubleday, Doran and editor-in-chief of the Doubleday reprint subsidiary, Garden City Publishing Co. The Sun Dial Press edition appeared first, followed shortly by the ML edition. Doubleday, Doran made the plates, and the ML paid Doubleday a \$2,000 advance (including \$100 as a plate rental for five years) against royalties of 10 cents a copy. 

Ray Freiman, the Random House art director, authorized Sharp to use full color in the jacket illustration. He also asked him to include a hansom cab in the background (Freiman to Sharp, 14 December 1944). 

The ML printed 20,000 jackets in February 1945. The first printing was probably 20,000 as well. Royalties increased by 1971 to 14 cents a copy. *The Best Short Stories of O. Henry* sold 3,850 copies during the 12-month period November 1951–October 1952, placing it near the top of the second quarter of ML and Giant titles. 

*The Best Short Stories of O. Henry* was shifted from ML 4 to ML 26 in spring 1959 when *The Modern Library Dictionary* (509) was published as ML 4. 

#### 377.2a. Text reset (c. 1959) 

Title as 377.1. 

Pp. [i–v] vi–x, [*2*], [1] 2–340. [1–11]<sup>16</sup> 

[i] half title; [ii] blank; [iii] title; [iv] ] COPYRIGHT, 1899, 1901, 1902, 1903, 1904, 1905, 1906, 1907, | 1908, 1909, 1910, 1911, 1945, | BY DOUBLEDAY & COMPANY, INC. | [9 lines of additional copyright statements and rights statement][v]–vi *Contents*; [vii]–x *Introduction* signed p. x: B<span class="smallcaps">ennett</span> C<span class="smallcaps">erf</span> and V<span class="smallcaps">an</span> C<span class="smallcaps">artmell</span>; [*1*] fly title; [*2*] blank; [1]–340 text. 

> *Variant:* Pagination and collation as 377.2a. Contents as 377.2a except: [iv] COPYRIGHT, 1899, 1901, 1902, 1903, 1904, 1905, | 1906, 1907, 1908, 1909, 1910, 1911, 1945, | BY DOUBLEDAY & COMPANY, INC. | [10 lines of additional copyright statements and rights statement]. 

*Jacket A2:* As jacket A1 except in brilliant greenish blue (168) on coated white paper with revised flap text, including the outdated reference to “a book of 338 pages.” (*Spring 1959*) 

Printed from plates made from a new typesetting. The plates were used by Doubleday & Co. as well as the ML. 

#### 377.2b. Reissue format (1977) 

Title as 377a through line 8; lines 9–10: [torchbearer M] | THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK. 

Pagination as 377.2a. Perfect bound. 

Contents as 377.2a except: [iv] COPYRIGHT, 1907, 1908, 1909, 1910, 1911, 1945, | BY DOUBLEDAY & COMPANY, INC. | [5 lines of additional copyright statements and rights statement]. 

*Jacket C:* Non-pictorial on kraft paper with lettering in dark grayish reddish brown (47) and torchbearer in deep brown (56). 

> Front flap as 377.1 revised text with second sentence omitted. 

Published spring 1977 at \$4.95. ISBN 0-394-60423-7 on back panel of jacket with initial zero omitted. 

### 378 

**HARRY E. MAULE, ed. GREAT TALES OF THE AMERICAN WEST. 1945–1970. (ML 238)** 

#### 378. First printing (1945) 

*Great Tales* | OF THE | *American West* | EDITED, AND WITH AN INTRODUCTION | BY HARRY E. MAULE | [torchbearer D3 at right; 3-line imprint at left] THE | MODERN LIBRARY | NEW YORK | [rule] 

Pp. [i–iv] v–xviii, [1–2] 3–361 [362–366]. [1–12]<sup>16</sup> 

[i] half title; [ii] blank; [iii] title; [iv] COPYRIGHT, 1945, BY THE MODERN LIBRARY, INC.; v–vi CONTENTS; vii–viii ACKNOWLEDGMENTS; ix–xviii INTRODUCTION signed p. xviii: Harry E. Maule | New York— | February 15, 1945.; [1] fly title; [2] blank; 3–361 text; [362–366] blank. 

*Contents:* The Outcasts of Poker Flat, by Bret Harte – Buck Fanshaw’s Funeral, by Mark Twain – The Winning of the Biscuit-Shooter, by Owen Wister – Hearts and Crosses, by O. Henry – A Corner In Horses, by Stewart Edward White – Beyond the Desert, by Eugene Manlove Rhodes – Tappan’s Burro, by Zane Grey – Last Warning, by William MacLeod Raine – Hopalong Sits In, by Clarence E. Mulford – Sunset, by W. C. Tuttle – Routine Patrol, by James B. Hendryx – A Shot in the Dark, by Henry Herbert Knibbs – Dog Eater, by Charles M. Russell – Court Day, by Luke Short – Stage To Lordsburg, by Ernest Haycox – Wine on the Desert, by Max Brand – The Indian Well, by Walter Van Tilburg Clark – To Find a Place, by Robert Easton. 

*Jacket A:* Pictorial on coated cream paper with color reproduction of Frederick Remington’s “The Quarrel” (slightly cropped) in center of front panel, with title and statement of responsibility (“Edited with an Introduction by HARRY E. MAULE”) in black and reverse against moderate olive green (125) panel at top and statement, “Eighteen outstanding stories, including selections by Bret Harte, Mark Twain, Owen Wister . . . .” in reverse and “A MODERN LIBRARY BOOK” in black against moderate olive green panel at foot. 

> Front flap:<br> Here are eighteen stories which prove that the “Western” is literature as well as entertainment. In these exciting stories, from Bret Harte and Mark Twain to Walter Van Tilburg Clark, the reader will find outstanding contributions by the authors who broke the ground for innumerable other writers. This collection is designed to follow the development of the Western short story, and it captures the adventurous spirit of the cowboy, the two-gun man, the desert prospector, the gambler, the dance-hall girl, the cattle rustler, the miner, the builder and the nester—all pioneers of the American West. (*Spring 1945*) 

*Jacket B:* As jacket A in dark olive green (126) with new lettering for title and statement of responsibility in brilliant yellow (83) with “HARRY E. MAULE” in reverse; statement at foot as jacket A except “Eighteen outstanding stories, including selections by Bret Harte, Mark Twain, Owen Wister . . . .” in brilliant yellow. (*Fall 1946*) 

Original ML anthology; also published as *The Pocket Book of Western Stories* by Pocket Books, Inc., 1945. ML edition published April 1945. *WR* 5 May 1945. First printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued 1970/71. 

*Great Tales of the American West* was a joint venture between the ML and Pocket Books, Inc. The Pocket Books edition, published in June 1945 and printed from plates made from a different typesetting, ran to 320 pages, forty pages shorter than the ML edition. It omitted Robert Easton’s “To Find a Place” (ML ed., pp. 331–61) but the content of the two editions was otherwise identical. The composition and manufacturing costs for each set of plates was split equally between Pocket Books and the ML. Maule, a RH editor, received a \$250 advance against royalties of 3 cents a copy on the ML edition. 

Hal Borland’s review of the ML edition in the *New York Times Book Review* noted the absence of Will James, Andy Adams, and B. M. Bower. Maule had tried to get something by James but the estate was tied up with legal problems and had been unable to grant permission. Adams and Bower wrote no short stories and Maule did not want to include selections from novels. In a letter to Borland he noted, “There is another omission which we are correcting because the Modern Library feels that the permanence of the volume justifies the trouble and expense. Through a mix-up I failed to include a WOLFVILLE story by Alfred Henry Lewis but I am in touch with the estate now, and the next printing will have one” (Maule to Borland, 3 July 1945). 

No story by Lewis was ever included. The inflation that followed the Second World War together with relatively slow sales of Maule’s anthology may have ruled out incurring additional costs for permissions, typesetting, and plate making. 

Unlike *Great Modern Short Stories* (361) and *Best American Humorous Stories* (380), *Great Tales of the American West* did not rank among the 100 best-selling titles in the regular ML during the twelve-month period, November 1951–October 1952. 

#### ***Fall*** 

### 379 

**HOWARD FAST. THE UNVANQUISHED. 1945–1952. (ML 239)** 

#### 379. First printing (1945) 

THE | *Unvanquished* | A NOVEL BY | HOWARD FAST | WITH A NEW FOREWORD | BY THE AUTHOR | [torchbearer D3] | [rule] | THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK | [rule] 

Pp. [*14*], [1–2] 3–316 [317–322]. [1–10]<sup>16</sup> [11]<sup>8</sup> 

[*1*] half title; [*2*] blank; [*3*] title; [*4*] COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY HOWARD FAST | COPYRIGHT, 1945, BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC. | FIRST *Modern Library* EDITION, 1945; [*5*–*6*] FOREWORD signed p. [*6*]: HOWARD FAST | *May, 1945*; [*7*] dedication; [*8*] blank; [*9*–*10*] *CONTENTS*; [*11*] blank; [*12*] map: *Retreat through the Jerseys* | *Aug. 27, 1776 – Dec. 25,1776*; [*13*] map: *Retreat through Manhattan* | *and Westchester*; [*14*] blank; [1] part title: *The Unvanquished* | PART ONE · BROOKLYN; [2] blank; 3–316 text; [317–322] ML list. (*Fall 1945*) *Note: First* statement retained on spring 1946 printing. 

*Jacket:* Pictorial on coated cream paper depicting a wooden sign in moderate yellowish brown (77) with multi-color portrait of George Washington in left-profile; lettering in brownish black (65), background in grayish yellow (90). Signed: Riki. 

> Front flap:<br> Howard Fast stands foremost among the younger generation of writers in America. His historical novels of the critical first years of the Republic have been notable for their insight and dramatic impact; their heroes are motivated by a deep but simple humanity, and their dedication to man’s struggle for liberty has made his books unique contributions to an understanding of the forces and personalities that shaped our nation. Carl Van Doren says: “Reading *The Unvanquished* is the next thing to having been on the scene at the time.” (*Fall 1945*) 

Originally published by Duell, Sloan and Pearce, 1942. ML edition (pp. [*7–10*], 3–316) printed from Duell, Sloan and Pearce plates with page numerals removed from table of contents and newly drawn maps added on pp. [*12–13*] to replace the endpaper maps of the original edition. Published fall 1945. *WR* 3 November 1945. First printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued fall 1952. 

Charles Duell suggested a ML edition of Fast’s *Conceived in Liberty* in 1942. Cerf responded that it wouldn’t have a chance in the ML but that Fast’s recently published novel *The Unvanquished* would be a different matter (Duell to Cerf, 18 December 1942; Cerf to Duell, 24 December 1942). The reprint contract was signed two-and-a-half years later, in May 1945. 

Four years after *The Unvanquished* was added to the ML, Fast contacted Cerf about a rumor that the novel and his volume devoted to Tom Paine in ML Giants (G69) were being dropped from the series. Fast had joined the Communist Party in 1944 and in recent testimony before the House Committee on Un-American Activities had refused to reveal the names of contributors to a home for orphans of American veterans of the Spanish Civil War (“Howard Fast,” *Wikipedia*, accessed 27 July 2010). He wrote: 

> I do hope I am needlessly perturbed, but I thought it best to write you and ask whether the rumor that my books have been dropped from the Modern Library has any basis in fact. It came to me from several places in the industry that you were cleaning people like myself out of the Modern Library, and that two of the initial adjustments were THE UNVANQUISHED and CITIZEN TOM PAINE. 
> I don’t have to tell you that I find this most difficult to believe. Whatever our political differences have been—and they have been very considerable—I always considered you a person of independence and integrity. I cannot believe that any circumstances would cause you to give aid and comfort to the unspeakable group of people who both fear and hate books, and attack them. (Fast to Cerf, 7 December 1949). 

Cerf replied: 

> The rumor you quote in your letter of December 7th to the effect that your books were going to be dropped from the Modern Library because “we were cleaning people like yourself out of the series” is 100% incorrect. I would be interested in learning where you heard this rumor. . . . 
> Your THE UNVANQUISHED and CITIZEN TOM PAINE were added to the Modern Library because we believed they belonged there. Any opinions that we may have of your political ideas, or you personally, do not alter those beliefs in any degree whatsoever. The only thing that will ever make us drop either or both of these books from the series is a drop-off in general sales so marked as to make their retention no longer desirable from a commercial point of view (Cerf to Fast, 9 December 1949). 

*The Unvanquished* was dropped from the ML in fall 1952, presumably because of poor sales. *The Selected Work of Tom Paine*, edited by Fast, coupled with Fast’s novel *Citizen Tom Paine* (G69), remained in ML Giants until 1970. 

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span> 
Fast, Howard, *Citizen Tom Paine*; *The Selected Work of Tom Paine*, ed. Howard Fast (1946) G69 

### 380 

**ROBERT N. LINSCOTT, ed. THE BEST AMERICAN HUMOROUS SHORT STORIES. 1945–1971. (ML 87)** 

#### 380. First printing (1945) 

THE BEST AMERICAN | *Humorous Short Stories* | Edited, with an Introductory Note by | ROBERT N. LINSCOTT | [torchbearer D2] | THE MODERN LIBRARY 

Pp. [*2*], [i–iv] v–x, [1–2] 3–436. [1–14]<sup>16</sup> 

[*1*] half title; [*2*] blank; [i] title; [ii] Copyright, 1945, by Random House, Inc. | First Modern Library Edition, 1945; [iii] dedication; [iv] blank; v–vi *Introductory Note* signed p. vi: *R. N. Linscott*; vii–x *Contents*; [1] fly title; [2] blank; 3–434 text; 435–436 *Index*. 

*Contents:* Swallowing an Oyster Alive, by John S. Robb – How Daddy Played Hoss, by George W. Harris – The Shakers, by Artemus Ward – Mrs. McWilliams and the Lightning, by Mark Twain – Journalism in Tennessee, by Mark Twain – Brother Rabbit Takes Some Exercise, by Joel Chandler Harris – How Brother Rabbit Frightened His Neighbors, by Joel Chandler Harris – How Mr. Rooster Lost His Dinner, by Joel Chandler Harris – Colonel Starbottle for the Plaintiff, by Bret Harte – A Piece of Red Calico, by Frank R. Stockton – Mr. Dooley on the Game of Football, by Finley Peter Dunne – Pigs Is Pigs, by Ellis Parker Butler – The Ransom of Red Chief, by O. Henry – Little Gentleman, by Booth Tarkington – Three Without Doubled, by Ring Lardner – Mr. and Mrs. Fix-It, by Ring Lardner – Death of Red Peril, by Walter D. Edmonds – Travel Is So Broadening, by Sinclair Lewis – The Crazy Fool, by Donald Ogden Stewart – Mr. and Mrs. Haddock Abroad, by Donald Ogden Stewart – Benny and the Bird-Dogs, by Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings – The Legislature, by James M. Cain – The Little Hours, by Dorothy Parker – But the One on the Right, by Dorothy Parker – The Snatching of Bookie Bob, by Damon Runyon – An Interesting Cure, by Frank Sullivan – Gendarmes and the Man, by Donald Moffat – Carnival Days in Sunny Las Los, by Robert Benchley – The Guest, by Marc Connelly – Primrose Path, by Sally Benson – The Secret Life of Walter Mitty, by James Thurber – The Night the Bed Fell, by James Thurber – The Night the Ghost Got In, by James Thurber – University Days, by James Thurber – The Man Who Hated Moonbaum, by James Thurber – Father and His Hard-Rocking Ship, by Clarence Day – The Prince, by Ruth McKenney – Chocolate for the Woodwork, by Arthur Kober – The Terrible Vengeance of H\*Y\*M\*A\*N K\*A\*P\*L\*A\*N, by Leonard Q. Ross – Hand in Nub, by St. Clair McKelway – Down with the Restoration, by S. J. Perelman – Kitchen Bouquet, by S. J. Perelman – Dental or Mental I Say It’s Spinach, by S. J. Perelman. 

*Jacket:* Pictorial on coated cream paper with color portraits of Dorothy Parker, Mark Twain, and Robert Benchley at top, James Thurber at lower left, and S. J. Perelman at lower right; lettering in strong red (12) and black on pale yellow (89) background. Title on backstrip in reverse against inset panel in deep brown (59). 

> Front flap:<br> Forty-three stories are included in this collection; the work of thirty-one authors, ranging from Mark Twain and Artemus Ward to James Thurber and S. J. Perlman, and including such top-flight performers as Dorothy Parker, Ring Lardner, Donald Ogden Stewart, Robert Benchley, Frank Sullivan, Sally Benson and Arthur Kober. It’s an all-star cast that contains [±offers] the best work of the present-day humorists, and as many selections from those of the past as the average contemporary is likely to enjoy. (*Fall 1945; [Fall 1963]*) 

Original ML anthology superseding *Best American Humorous Short Stories*, ed. Alexander Jessup (1920). Published fall 1945. *WR* 17 November 1945. First printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued 1971/72. 

Linscott became a Random House editor in 1944 after a long career at Houghton Mifflin. His work on *Best American Humorous Short Stories* was not part of his regular responsibilities, and he received a \$250 advance against royalties of 3 cents a copy (Cerf to Linscott, 19 January 1945). Jessup’s anthology had an average sale of 1,500–2,000 copies a year before the Second World War. Linscott expected the revised edition to sell over 5,000 copies in the first year and then gradually decline to the same level as the earlier anthology. He predicted a total sale of 20,000–30,000 copies before it needed to be revised again (Linscott to R. Hawley Traux, *New Yorker*, 1 March 1945). 

*Best American Humorous Short Stories* sold 3,643 copies during the 12-month period November 1951–October 1952, placing it high in the second quarter of ML and Giant titles. 

### 381 

**RICHARD HENRY DANA. TWO YEARS BEFORE THE MAST. 1945–1970. (ML 236)** 

#### 381a. First printing (1945) 

[torchbearer E5] | [6-line title and statement of responsibility within single rules] TWO YEARS | BEFORE | THE MAST | BY | RICHARD HENRY DANA | *Foreword by JAMES D. HART* | [below frame] THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK 

Pp. [i–iv] v–xvii [xviii], [1–2] 3–423 [424–430]. [1–14]<sup>16</sup> 

[i] half title; [ii] blank; [iii] title; [iv] Copyright, 1945, by Random House, Inc.; v–vi CONTENTS; vii–xiv FOREWORD | BY JAMES D. HART; xv–xvii ORIGINAL PREFACE signed p. xvii: R. H. D., J<span class="smallcaps">r</span>. | <span class="smallcaps">Boston</span>, *July* 1840.; [xviii] blank; [1] fly title; [2] blank; 3–386 text; [387] part title: TWENTY-FOUR YEARS | AFTER; [388] blank; 389–423 TWENTY-FOUR YEARS AFTER signed p. 423: R. H. D., J<span class="smallcaps">r</span>. | <span class="smallcaps">Boston</span>, *May* 6, 1869.; [424] blank; [425–430] ML list. (*Fall 1944*) *Note:* Based on the “Weekly Record” listing in *Publishers’ Weekly* the ML edition of *Two Years before the Mast* appears to have been published in August 1945. There was a second printing in fall 1945 with the 1945 copyright date on the verso of the title page. 

> *Variant:* Pagination and collation as 381a. Contents as 381a except: [iv] Copyright, 1936, by Random House, Inc. (*Fall 1945*) *Note:* The correction in the copyright date was made because Hart’s introduction was initially written for the limited edition of *Two Years before the Mast* printed by the Grabhorn Press in San Francisco and published by Random House in 1936. 

*Jacket* *A:* Pictorial in dark blue (183) and medium gray (264) on coated cream paper with inset multi-color illustration adapted from the poster for the 1946 film version starring Alan Ladd and Brian Donlevy; lettering in dark blue on medium gray panels above and below illustration; all surrounded by dark blue background. 

> Front flap:<br> The test of time by which classics are proved has certainly been applied to Richard Henry Dana’s *Two Years Before the Mast*, for it is now just over one hundred years since it was first published. During that century it has constantly risen in the admiration of succeeding generations of readers, and today is as revered as a masterpiece of the literature of the sea as it ever has been in all its long history. It takes an honored place in the Modern Library series, introduced by James Hart of Harvard University. (*Spring 1945*) *Note:* There was a second printing. 

*Jacket B1:* Pictorial on cream paper in light blue (181), light yellow 86), light orange yellow (70) and black with inset illustration of clipper ship at dock and title and author in reverse against light blue background and series in black. 

> Front flap as jacket A. (*Spring 1946*) 

> Flap: <br> “James D. Hart of the University of California” fall 1948; “of Harvard University” fall 1954 sans serif type, later corrected (F55) 

ML edition based on the text of the limited edition of 1,000 copies printed by Edwin and Robert Grabhorn in San Francisco and published by Random House, 1936. ML edition printed from plates made from a new typesetting. Published summer 1945 (publication originally announced for fall 1944 and then for spring 1945). *WR* 4 August 1945. First printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued 1970/71. 

James D. Hart, the author of the Foreword, had suggested a ML edition of *Two Years before the Mast* in 1935 and indicated that it would have a steady sale to schools and colleges (Hart to Cerf, 19 February 1935). Later that year Cerf offered Hart \$75 to write an introduction to the Grabhorn Press edition with the understanding that the introduction could also be used in due course in a ML edition (Cerf to Hart, 12 November 1935). Hart also advised Edwin and Robert Grabhorn about the best edition to use as a copy-text when setting their edition. 

Hart stated in his introduction to the Grabhorn edition, “The text for this edition is the last corrected by Dana during his life, and to it is added the chapter of reminiscences he wrote ‘twenty-four years after.’ To this have been added the concluding chapter of the first edition, omitted by Dana in his revisions, but interesting as showing the original purpose of his account” (p. [xiv]). The second sentence is altered in ML ed. as follows: “To this have been added the preface and epilogue of the first edition, omitted by Dana in his revisions, but interesting as showing the original purpose of his account” (p. [xiv]). The preface appears in both the Grabhorn and ML editions; the epilogue (titled “Concluding Memorandum” in the Grabhorn edition) appears on pp. 413–23 of the ML edition as part of “Twenty-four Years After.” The concluding chapter referred to in Hart’s introduction to the Grabhorn edition is omitted from 381a. The ML edition also omitted the penultimate paragraph of Dana’s preface which referred to the concluding chapter: “In preparing this narrative I have carefully avoided incorporating into it any impressions but those made upon me by the events as they occurred, leaving to my concluding chapter, to which I shall respectfully call the reader’s attention, those views which have been suggested to me by subsequent reflection” (Grabhorn ed., p. 4). 

The film of *Two Years before the Mast* starring Alan Ladd was released by Paramount Pictures in April 1945. It is possible that publication of the ML edition was postponed to coincide with the release of the film. 

The last paragraph of Hart’s foreword in 381a reads as follows: 

> The text for this edition is the last corrected by Dana during his life and to it is added the chapter of reminiscences he wrote “twenty-four years after.” To this have been added the preface and the epilogue of the first edition, omitted by Dana in his revisions, but interesting as showing the original purpose of his account. (p. xiv) 

*Two Years before the Mast* was not among the 100 best-selling titles in the regular ML during the 12-month period, November 1951–October 1952. 

#### 381b. “Concluding Chapter” added (1954) 

Title as 381a. 

Pp. [i–iv] v–xvii [xviii], [1–2] 3–443 [444–446]. [1]<sup>16</sup> [2–7]<sup>32</sup> [8]<sup>8</sup> [9]<sup>16</sup> 

Contents as 381a variant through p. 386; 387‑406: CONCLUDING CHAPTER; 3–406 text; [407] part title: TWENTY-FOUR YEARS | AFTER; [408] blank; 409–443 TWENTY-FOUR YEARS AFTER signed p. 443: R. H. D., <span class="smallcaps">Jr</span>. | <span class="smallcaps">Boston</span>, *May* 6, 1869.; [444–446] blank. 

> *Variant:* Pagination as 381b. [1]<sup>16</sup> [2–6]<sup>32</sup> [7]<sup>8</sup> [8]<sup>32</sup> [9]<sup>16</sup>. Contents as 381b except: [iv] COPYRIGHT, 1936, AND RENEWED, 1964, | BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC. (*Fall 1966*) 

*Jacket B2:* As 381a jacket B except flap text as jacket B except for last sentence. (*Fall 1954*) *Note:* The ML began using sans serif type on the flaps and back panel of jackets in fall 1953. When the jacket for *Two Years before the Mast* was reset in sans serif type, the ML’s printers appear to have copied the flap text from jacket A, and the last sentence reverts to “James D. Hart of Harvard University.” (*Fall 1954*). 

*Jacket B3:* As jacket B2 with flap text corrected to “James D. Hart of the University of California.” (*Fall 1955*) 

*Jacket B4*: As jacket B3 except on coated white paper. (*Spring 1957*) 

The last paragraph of Hart’s foreword in 381b is revised as follows: 

> The text for this edition is the last corrected by Dana during his life and to it is added the chapter of reminiscences he wrote “twenty-four years after.” As preface and epilogue there have been appended the original opening of Chapter I and the Concluding Chapter of the first edition. These sections were omitted in later revisions but they have great value in giving further insight into the purposes of Dana’s book. (p. xiv) 

The earliest printing examined with the Concluding Chapter (pp. 387–406) has a fall 1954 jacket, but the Concluding Chapter may have been added earlier. 

### 382 

**WASHINGTON IRVING. SELECTED WRITINGS OF WASHINGTON IRVING. 1945–1970. (ML 240)** 

#### 382. First printing (1945) 

[within a frame of row ornaments curved at the corners] *Selected Writings of* | WASHINGTON | IRVING | EDITED, WITH AN INTRODUCTION | <span class="smallcaps">by Saxe Commins</span> | [torchbearer D5] | THE MODERN LIBRARY | *NEW YORK* 

Pp. [i–iv] v–xix [xx], [1–2] 3–669 [670–676]. [1–21]<sup>16</sup> [22]<sup>12</sup> 

[i] half title; [ii] blank; [iii] title; [iv] COPYRIGHT, 1945, BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC | *First Modern Library Edition* | 1945; v–vi *Contents*; vii–xix *Introduction* signed p. xix: <span class="smallcaps">Saxe Commins</span>; [xx] blank; [1] part title: I. From *The Sketch Book*; [2] blank; 3–669 text; [670] blank; [671–676] ML list. (*Fall 1945*) *Note:* *First* statement seen on printings through spring 1947. 

> *Variant:* Pp. [i–iv] v–xix [xx], [1–2] 3–669 [670–684]. [1]<sup>16</sup> [2–11]<sup>32</sup> [12]<sup>16</sup>. Contents as 382 except: [iv] *First* statement omitted; [677–678] ML Giants list; [679] American College Dictionary advertisement; [680–684] blank. (*Spring 1959*) 

*Contents:* <span class="smallcaps">from The Sketch Book</span>. Rip Van Winkle – The Legend of Sleepy Hollow – The Spectre Bridegroom – The Broken Heart – The Boar’s Head Tavern, Eastcheap – Roscoe – Traits of Indian Character – The Mutability of Literature. <span class="smallcaps">from Bracebridge Hall</span>. The Stout Gentleman – The Haunted House – Dolph Heyliger. <span class="smallcaps">from Tales of a Traveller</span>. The Bold Lagoon – Literary Life – A Literary Dinner – The Club of Queer Fellows – The Poor-Devil Author. <span class="smallcaps">from The Alhambra</span>. Palace of the Alhambra – Inhabitants of the Alhambra – The Hall of Ambassadors – The Mysterious Chambers – The Court of Lions – Local Traditions – Legend of the Arabian Astrologers – Legend of the Moor’s Legacy. <span class="smallcaps">from Wolfert’s Roost and Other Papers</span>. Wolfert’s Roost – “A Time of Unexampled Prosperity” – The Great Mississippi Bubble. <span class="smallcaps">A History of New York</span>. 

*Jacket A:* Pictorial in dark blue (183), moderate orange yellow (71), deep pink (3), moderate pink (5), light bluish gray (191) and brownish black (65) on coated cream paper with title in reverse with letters bordered in moderate orange yellow, lettering at foot (“Including selections from <span class="smallcaps">The Sketch Book</span> | <span class="smallcaps">Brackbridge Hall, Tales of a Traveller, | The Alhambra, Wolfert’s Roost</span>, | *and the complete and unabridged* | <span class="smallcaps">Knickerbocker’s History of New York</span> | *A MODERN LIBRARY BOOK*”) in moderate orange yellow; in inset oval illustration color in brownish black frame; title in reverse highlighted in moderate orange yellow, other lettering in moderate orange yellow, all on dark blue background. Printed in six colors. Designed by Nat Farmer; unsigned. 

> Front flap:<br> In the proud re-discovery of our past, Americans are turning with more and more enthusiasm to our first renowned national literary figure. Because Washington Irving’s writings retain their freshness and excitement, they are having a renaissance a century after they had reached the crest of their popularity during his lifetime. This comprehensive volume of 700 pages offers generous selections, each given in its entirety, from *The Sketch Book*, *Bracebridge Hall*, *Tales of a Traveller*, *The Alhambra*, *Wolfert’s Roost*, and the unabridged *Knickerbocker’s History of New York*. (*Fall 1945*) 

*Jacket B:* As jacket A in light brown and black on coated white paper with oval illustration and frame in black and white; all lettering in reverse on light brown background. Printed in four colors. (*Probably fall 1947 or spring 1948*; *Spring 1958* *examined*) 

Original ML collection. Published fall 1945. *WR* 17 November 1945. First printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued 1970/71. 

Cerf authorized Commins to prepare a volume of Irving’s writings for the ML in August 1944. Commins was to provide an introduction, and the length of the book was to be no more than 700 pages. Commins submitted a preliminary table of contents about seven weeks later, noting that he proposed to include Irving’s burlesque *History of New York* by Diedrich Knickerbocker in complete form. “First, it’s the best thing he wrote and his greatest fame rests on it. Second, and very important, it is a wonderful selling point to be able to say that we give the History complete and unabridged. . . . The History is hard to get outside conventional sets of Irving.” Commins received a \$250 advance against royalties of 3 cents for every copy sold in the ML (Cerf to Commins, 17 August 1944, Commins to Cerf, 5 October 1944; Saxe Commins Papers, Box 2, Princeton University Library). 

Cerf announced the forthcoming publication of *Selected Writings of Washington Irving* in his “Trade Winds” column six months before the book was published. He stated, “The editors of the Modern Library expect it to be one of the most popular volumes in the entire series” (“Trade Winds,” *SRL*, 12 May 1945, p. 17). 

Jacket B was printed in four instead of six colors and appears to have been introduced in 1947 or early 1948. Ray Freiman asked Nat Farmer, the artist responsible for the original ML jacket, to devise a color scheme utilizing four colors, indicating that the ML could not afford six-color printing in 1947 (Freiman to Farmer, 9 May 1947). 

*Selected Writings of Washington Irving* was not among the 100 best-selling titles in the regular ML during the 12-month period, November 1951–October 1952. 

### 383 

**GUY DE MAUPASSANT. THE BEST STORIES OF GUY DE MAUPASSANT. 1945–1971. (ML 98)** 

#### 383. First printing (1945) 

THE BEST | STORIES OF | Guy | De Maupassant | *Selected, and with an Introduction by* | SAXE COMMINS | [torchbearer D5] | [rule] | THE MODERN LIBRARY · NEW YORK | [rule] 

Pp. [i–iv] v–xiv, [1–2] 3–551 [552–562]. [1–18]<sup>16</sup> 

[i] half title; [ii] blank; [iii] title; [iv] COPYRIGHT, 1945, BY RANDOM HOUSE, INC.; v–vi *Contents*; vii–xiv *Introduction* signed p. xiv: <span class="smallcaps">Saxe Commins</span>; [1] fly title; [2] blank; 3–551 text; [552] blank; [553–558] ML list; [559–560] ML Giants list; [561–562] blank. (*Fall 1945*) 

*Contents:* Mademoiselle Fifi – Vain Beauty – The Horla – Madame Tellier’s Excursion – The Piece of String – The Story of a Farm-Girl – That Pig of a Morin – The Umbrella – Was It a Dream? – The False Gems – Hautot Senior and Hautot Junior – A Family Affair – A Normandy Joke – The Diamond Necklace – In the Moonlight – Love – The Little Cask – Clochette – A Fishing Excursion – Humiliation – Julie Romain – The Specter – My Uncle Sosthenes – The Duel – A Vagabond – Madame Parisse – One Phase of Love – Simon’s Papa – The Vendetta – The Farmer’s Wife – A Matter of Business – The Signal – Love’s Awakening – The Olive Grove – Saved – A Country Excursion – The Diary of a Madman – Two Little Soldiers – The White Wolf – The Devil – A Lucky Burglar – Moonlight – The Mad Woman – A Costly Outing – Ball-of-Fat. 

*Jacket A:* Non-pictorial in deep red (13), medium blue (182) and black on cream paper with title in reverse on deep red panel at top, other lettering and torchbearer in reverse on smaller black panel at foot with a rule in medium blue separating the two panels. Backstrip with “DE MAUPASSANT” in medium blue within inset rectangular panel framed in medium blue. 

> Front flap:<br> The world owes to that unchallenged master of the short story, Guy de Maupassant, an immense and increasing debt for having given it an [±a new] insight into life as true as it is powerful and exciting [±stirring]. The forty-five tales in the 550 pages of this volume represent the flower of his work, [+work in the field of the short story, each] chosen with the purpose of giving variety, balance and sustained interest [+to the whole]. These stories [±tales] are as vital and as applicable [±meaningful] today as they were when they were first written during the feverish ten years of Maupassant’s creative life [+, from 1883 to 1893]. (*Fall 1946; [Spring 1956]*). *Note:* Fall 1945 jacket not seen. 

*Jacket B:* As jacket A in vivid red (11) and dark blue (183) on coated white paper with lettering in reverse on vivid red panel at top, other lettering in reverse on smaller dark blue panel at foot, with a rule in reverse separating the panels. Front flap with spring 1956 text. (*Fall 1963*) *Note:* The elimination of a third color meant that the jacket was cheaper to print, but the inset backstrip panel with “DE MAUPASSANT” is unframed, making the backstrip less distinctive. 

> The flaps and back panel of the jacket are also printed in vivid red and dark blue. 

Original ML collection superseding *The Best Stories of Guy de Maupassant*, translated by Michael Monahan (1932). Published fall 1945. *WR* not found. First printing: Not ascertained. Discontinued 1971/72. 

*The Best Short Stories of Guy de Maupassant* was originally entrusted to Aaron Sussman, a partner in the firm that handled Random House’s advertising, and Whit Burnet, the editor of *Story* magazine. They were unable to complete the volume, perhaps because Sussman’s advertising agency was reorganized in 1944 from Franklin Spier & Aaron Sussman to Sussman & Sugar. Commins took over the editing of the volume and received a flat fee of \$300 for his efforts—the same amount that had been offered to Sussman and Burnet (Cerf to Commins, 26 January 1945; Saxe Commins Papers, Princeton University Library). 

Commins used the anonymous translations in *The Life and Work of Henri Rene Guy de Maupassant* (17 vols., M. W. Dunne, 1903) because they were in the public domain. The alternative was to use translations by several hands with many copyright complications (Commins to Alfred A. Knopf, 21 February 1950). 

Commins’s edition of *The Best Short Stories of Guy de Maupassant* was not among the 100 best-selling titles in the regular ML during the 12-month period, November 1951–October 1952. 

<span class="smallcaps">Also in the Modern Library</span> 
Maupassant, Guy de, *Best Stories*, trans. Monahan (1940) 243b 
Maupassant, Guy de, *Love and Other Stories* (1919) 72 
Maupassant, Guy de, *Mademoiselle Fifi and Twelve Other Stories* (1917) 8 
Maupassant, Guy de, *Short Stories*, trans. Monahan (1932) 243a (jacket title: *Best Stories*). Original ML collection combining two ML volumes originally published by Boni & Liveright: *Love and Other Stories* and *Mademoiselle Fifi and Twelve Other Stories*. *The Short Stories of Guy de Maupassant* was renamed *The Best Stories of Guy de Maupassant* in 1940—a title that was retained by Commins’s newly edited collection. 
*Maupassant*, Guy de, *Une Vie* (1918) 54 
Maupassant, Guy de, *Une Vie; Bel Ami* (1932) 54.2 