<!-- llmmeta -->
<script type="application/ld+json">
{
"@context": "http://schema.org",
"@type": "BoardMeeting",
"name": "Board Minutes",
"startDate": "1817-07-28",
"endDate": "1817-07-28",
"location": {
"@type": "Place",
"name": "University of Virginia Library",
"address": {
"@type": "PostalAddress",
"addressLocality": "Charlottesville",
"addressRegion": "Virginia"
}
},
"organizer": {
"@type": "Organization",
"name": "University of Virginia, Board of Visitors"
},
"keywords": "Board of Visitors, Governance, University of Virginia, Minutes",
"description": "Minutes of the Board of Visitors meeting held at the University of Virginia to discuss appointments, construction, and other board actions.",
"attendee": \[
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Thomas Jefferson"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "James Madison"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "John Hartwell Cocke"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Joseph C. Cabell"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Nelson Barksdale"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Alexander Garritt"
}
],
"about": \[
{
"@type": "Event",
"name": "Appointment of Proctor",
"description": "Nelson Barksdale appointed as the successor to Alexander Garritt for the office of Proctor."
},
{
"@type": "Event",
"name": "Importing a Stone Cutter",
"description": "Authorization granted to Mr. Jefferson to import a stone cutter from Italy."
},
{
"@type": "Event",
"name": "Professorship Agreement",
"description": "Agreement to offer a Professorship of Languages, Belles Lettres, Rhetoric, History and Geography to Doctor Knox."
}
]
}

</script>
<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1817) July 28, 1817

## Board of Visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

July 28, 1817

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

## Board of Visitors minutes

### Public minutes

2 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a called meeting of the Visitors of the Central College, held at the House of Mr. Madison in Orange, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, John Hartwell Cocke, and Joseph C. Cabell, being present:

The plan of the first Pavilion to be erected, and the proceedings thereupon, having been stated and agreed to.

It is agreed that application be made to Doctor Knox of Baltimore to accept the Professorship of Languages, Belles Lettres, Rhetoric, History and Geography, and than an independent salary of five hundred dollars, with a perquisite of twenty five dollars, from each pupil, together with chambers for his accommodation, be allowed him as a compensation for his services, he finding the necessary assistant ushers.

Alexander Garritt requesting to resign the office of Proctor, it is agreed that Nelson Barksdale of the county of Albemarle be appointed his successor.

It is also agreed that it be expedient to import a stone cutter from Italy, and that Mr. Jefferson be authorized & requested to take the requisite measures to effect that object.
