## **BIBLIOGRAPHICAL PROCEDURES AND FORMAT**  

 **Scope**nThere were 781 titles published in the Modern Library and its twonrelated series, Modern Library Giants and the Illustrated ModernnLibrary, from 1917 through 1985; 642 of these titles were published innthe main Modern Library series. This bibliography covers 1925–59 for thenregular Modern Library series during the most profitable and prolificnyears of the series. First printings and major bibliographical variantsnof each title (reset texts, reset title pages, introductions added andndropped, etc.) are fully described. Publishing history information,nincluding which titles were discontinued each year, is provided.  

 **Format**nWithin each section of the bibliography, entries are arrangednchronologically. For each title published in the series between 1925 andn1959, subsequent variants of each title are described if they appearednprior to 1992. The entry numbers reflect the chronological arrangementnof the bibliography and are unrelated to Modern Library numbers assignednby the publisher.  

 **Editions, Printings, States, Issues**nThe descriptive bibliography of a reprint series like the Modern Librarynpresents special challenges in terms of bibliographical methodology.  

 Basic to any descriptive bibliography is the identification andndistinction of editions, printings, states, and issues. An *edition* isndefined as the copies of a book printed from a single setting of type,nincluding all reprintings. Many Modern Library books were printed fromnrelief plates previously used by other publishers or from offset platesnmade by photographing books originally typeset for other publishers.nModern Library printings of such a title are bibliographically part ofnan edition that was created before its publication in the ModernnLibrary. Other Modern Library books, on the other hand, are printed fromnrelief or offset plates made from new settings of type (most of thesenplates were made for and owned by the Modern Library; sometimes theynwere owned jointly by the Modern Library and an original publisher; in anfew cases they were made by an original publisher and rented to thenModern Library for its printings). All printings from plates made fromnan original typesetting constitute an edition in their own right. ModernnLibrary books identified in the bibliography as having been printed fromnnewly set plates constitute new editions. For Modern Library printingsnthat belong to an earlier edition, an attempt has been made to identifynthe source of the plates and to indicate precisely which pages of thenModern Library “edition” were printed from them. (The term “first ModernnLibrary edition,” as loosely applied by collectors and booksellers,nrefers to the first Modern Library printing.)  

 The widespread practice of printing from plates in the nineteenth andntwentieth centuries has led bibliographers to speak of “parent editions”nand “subsidiary editions.” Plates used by an original publisher for theninitial printing of a work are commonly used by one or more reprintnpublishers (such as the Modern Library) for “reprint editions.” Thenoriginal publisher may use the plates for a special printing marketed asna “limited edition,” printings of the “trade edition,” and laternprintings of one or more “popular editions” at a lower price and oftennin a smaller format. All printings from plates made from the same typensetting belong bibliographically to the same edition or “parentnedition.” Printings by the original publisher marketed inndistinguishable formats and printings by other publishers marketed underntheir imprints can be considered “subsidiary editions.” Bowers notesnthat a “basic list of possible subsidiary editions to the parent editionntypesetting” includes American and English editions (including cheapneditions), limited editions, colonial editions, editions by othernpublishers, revised editions, and enlarged editions. He continues:n“These terms are not pure bibliographical terms and at best are onlynconveniences. They do not replace the necessity of being precise in anbibliography about the origin of a subsidiary edition. Thus a firstnAmerican edition may actually be a re-issue of an impression of annEnglish edition, or an American state of one of its impressions whichncomprises a separate American issue, or it may be a first Americannimpression from the English plates, or a new American type-setting. Fornthe arrangement of a bibliography, any one of these is most convenientlyntreated as the first American edition, but the bibliographical factsnmust be present” (1975, pp. 383–84).  

 The term “Modern Library edition” is used for the sake of convenience innthe printing and publishing history statement (where the precisenbibliographical facts about its origins are set forth) and in thenpublishing history notes. The term “bibliographical edition” is usednoccasionally when it might otherwise be unclear that “edition” is beingnused in its bibliographical sense. The numbering system as describednbelow distinguishes Modern Library printings that belong to differentneditions or parent editions.  

 *Printing*. All the copies of a book printed at one time withoutnremoving the type or plates from the press are considered a printing.nAll Modern Library books were printed from plates. Printings occur onlynwithin editions. *Impression* is the same as *printing*, but *printing*nis used here for consistency.  

 *State*. States are created by an alteration of the text to *somencopies* of a particular printing (usually by stop-press correction orncancellation of leaves). States occur within printings; there cannot bena first state without a second state. The first printing of Calverton’sn*Anthology of American Negro Literature*, published in the ModernnLibrary in 1929, omitted copyright notices from the pages containingnfive blues lyrics by W. C. Handy. When Handy granted permission forntheir inclusion, he stipulated that copyright notices were to be printednon the same pages as the lyrics. He protested the omission a few weeksnafter publication. The Modern Library ordered its bindery to collect allnunsold copies on hand, to cancel the leaves without copyright notices,nand to replace them with six newly printed leaves containing thencopyright notices. Copies of the first printing distributed before thencancellation was made constitute the first state of the printing; copiesnwith the corrected leaves constitute the second state of the printing.nAll subsequent printings included the copyright notices. Cancellednleaves do not always create separate states of a printing. SeveralnModern Library books contain cancellations that appear to have been madenin *all* copies of the first printing.  

 *Issue*. Issues are created by an alteration of the text that affectsnthe conditions of publication or sale of some copies of a particularnprinting. The alteration usually consists of a change in the title page.nIssues occur only within printings; there cannot be a first issuenwithout a second issue. Franz Werfel’s *Forty Days of Musa Dagh*,npublished as a Modern Library Giant in 1937, offers a good example. Thenprinted sheets came from two sources. In addition to securing reprintnrights to the work, the Modern Library acquired 3,984 sets of sheetsnfrom Viking Press, the original American publisher. The first fournleaves of these copies were canceled and replaced with new preliminarynleaves, including the Modern Library title page. The copies thusnpublished under the Modern Library imprint represent the second issue ofnthe final Viking Press printing. With the creation of the second issue,ncopies of the printing previously sold by Viking Press under its ownnimprint became the first issue of the final Viking Press printing. IfnViking Press retained a few copies in its warehouse for subsequent salenthey would also form part of the first issue of the printing. Thenavailability of Viking Press sheets allowed the Modern Library to reducenits own first printing from 10,000 copies to 5,000 copies. These 5,000ncopies, printed from Viking plates and placed on the marketnsimultaneously with the Modern Library issue of the final Viking Pressnprinting, constitute the first Modern Library printing.  

 **Families of Printings**nThe bibliographical description of books printed over a period of yearsnfrom the same set of plates, or from multiple sets of plates made fromnthe same typesetting, presents special difficulties. All such printingsnbelong to the same bibliographical edition. The plates may be usednconcurrently or in succession by different publishers. The plates ofnTheodore Dreiser’s *Sister Carrie* that the Modern Library first used inn1932 had previously been used for printings by Doubleday, Page & Co.n(1900), B. W. Dodge & Co. (1907), Grosset & Dunlap (1908), Harper &nBrothers (1912), and Boni & Liveright (1917). Printings within a parentnedition can be organized into subsidiary editions but a further level ofnordering is needed. Publishers may change their names or addresses withnthe result that later printings appear under new or revised imprints.nThere were printings of *Sister Carrie* under the successive imprints ofnBoni & Liveright and Horace Liveright, Inc., for example. A publishernmay also bring out printings in different formats. The Macmillan Co. innNew York published Louis Hémon’s *Maria Chapdelaine* in three formats.nIt first appeared in 1921 in a two-color format using one set of platesnfor the text and a second set of plates for matter printed in blue (thentwo-color title page, large initials at the beginning of each chapter,nand decorative part titles and chapter heads). There were severalnprintings in this format. In 1924 Macmillan published an “IllustratednEdition” using the original text plates together with newly set platesncontaining the illustrations and different large initials, both of whichnwere printed in grayish yellow. Five years later the novel appeared innMacmillan’s Modern Readers’ Series with an introduction and notes bynCarl Y. Connor. Printings in the Modern Readers’ Series did not includenillustrations, but the large initials from the “Illustrated Edition”nwere added to the original text plates (or to a duplicate set of thesenplates) to make possible one-color printing. The Modern Library used thenModern Readers’ Series plates when it published *Maria Chapdelaine* inn1934, omitting Connor’s introduction and notes but adding a newnintroduction by Hugh Eayrs.  

 *Sister Carrie* remained in the Modern Library for forty years; *MarianChapdelaine* remained in the series for seventeen years. Both titlesnwere reprinted regularly. In fall 1939 the Modern Library introduced annew and larger format that featured individually designed title pages.nBacklist titles were put into the new format as they were reprinted.nModern Library printings of *Sister Carrie* and *Maria Chapdelaine*nbefore 1940 were in the smaller format with a uniform title-page design;nsubsequent printings were in the larger format with individuallyndesigned title pages. The Modern Library “subsidiary edition” of each ofnthese works thus includes two bibliographically distinct sequences ofnprintings distinguished by the title page design and the size of thenvolumes.  

 Any sequence of printings from a set of plates with a givenncharacteristic in common can be regarded as a family of printings.nCharacteristics that distinguish a family of printings can include fullynor partially reset title pages (including changes in the publisher’sndevice or imprint), introductions added and dropped, printings with andnwithout illustrations, substantive changes in the back matter such asnthe addition of an index, and substantive changes in the body of thentext such as the addition of one or more works to a previously publishednanthology.  

 Modern Library printings of *Sister Carrie* or *Maria Chapdelaine* fallninto two distinct families based on the title page. Macmillan printingsnof *Maria Chapdelaine* could be regarded either as three subsidiaryneditions or three families of printings. The concept of families ofnprintings is especially useful for the ordering of books printed fromnthe same set of plates over an extended period of time. It should bennoted that while there are usually multiple printings within a givennfamily, there can also be families that consist of a single printing.  

 Since many Modern Library titles remained in the series for decades andnwere reprinted every year or two, a decision about the level ofnbibliographical ordering to be attempted had to be made at the outset.nNo attempt has been made to identify and describe every printing ofnevery title. Bibliographical ordering at this level may be justified inna bibliography of the works of a single author or editions of a singlenwork. It would be impracticable—and not particularly useful—in anbibliography of a series as large and long-lived as the Modern Library.nThe first level of ordering in the bibliography is the identification ofneditions as defined above. The second level of ordering is thenidentification of families of printings within editions. States andnissues as defined above occur within specific printings; there are onlyna few examples of these.  

 For each family of printings, the *earliest* printing seen has beenndescribed. Modern Library books can be dated precisely or approximatelynon the basis of several kinds of evidence. Books that include lists ofnModern Library titles in the back matter can usually be dated by springnor fall of a given year. Between fall 1925 and spring 1967 these listsnwere revised twice a year, and the current list was usually included innbooks printed during a given season. (The list in the first ModernnLibrary printing of books printed from offset plates commonly appearsnwithout change in later printings.) Modern Library jackets can be datednon the basis of the lists of titles that were printed inside nearly allnjackets through 1963. The jacket date can provide useful (but notnconclusive) evidence as to the date of the book inside the jacket,nsubject to the cautions noted below in the section on jackets. Thendating key can be used to date any list of Modern Library titles bynspring or fall of a given year.  

 The numbering system begins by identifying works published in the ModernnLibrary in approximate chronological order as described above. Thisnbibliographic numbering system is distinct from the Modern Librarynsystem. Numbers in the bibliography that are not preceded with an MLnpertain to the internal chronological numbering system. *Madame Bovary*nwas the twenty-fifth title published in the Modern Library and hasnremained in print in the series from 1917 to the present. Thenbibliography number 25 is used for all regular Modern Library printingsnof *Madame Bovary*. Modern Library printings of *Madame Bovary* betweenn1917 and 1991 fall into three editions numbered 25.1, 25.2 and 25.3.nFive families of printings have been identified within the firstnedition, all based on partially or fully reset title pages. These arennumbered 25.1a through 25.1e. The Modern Library reset the work in 1927ncreating the second edition. Three families of printings have beennidentified within this edition, including a reset title page in 1940 andnthe addition of an introduction by Henri Peyre in 1950. These arennumbered 25.2a, 25.2b and 25.2c. The first and second editions use thenEleanor Marx Aveling translation; both typesettings were made for thenModern Library. In 1957 Random House published *Madame Bovary* in a newntranslation by Francis Steegmuller. Later that year the Modern Librarynused the Random House plates for its first printing of the Steegmullerntranslation, creating the third Modern Library edition. Three familiesnof Modern Library printings have been identified within the thirdnedition, including reset title pages in 1969/70 and 1978. These arennumbered 25.3a, 25.3b and 25.3c. All Modern Library printings within thenthird edition are bibliographically part of the parent editionnoriginally published by Random House.  

 Several of the families within the Modern Library’s first edition ofn*Madame Bovary* appear to have consisted of a single printing. The othernfamilies of printings consist of multiple printings. Bibliographicalnordering at the level of families of printings makes it possible to seenhow Modern Library printings of *Madame Bovary* evolved over a period ofnseventy-five years and to place any copy of a Modern Library printingnunambiguously within a family of printings.  

 Most Modern Library titles exist in a single bibliographical edition.nFor these titles the entry number begins with the number for the worknfollowed by letters designating families of printings. For *ThenPhilosophy of Spinoza*, three families of printings have beennidentified, all within the same edition. These entries are numberedn136a, 136b and 136c.  

 The author believes that the first printing of every Modern Libraryntitle has been examined and described (new evidence may prove thisnbelief to be unfounded). Subsequent families of printings are describednon the basis of the earliest printing examined; the dating of thesenfamilies and the identification of the earliest printing within eachnwill be improved on the basis of information that comes to light as anresult of the publication of this bibliography.  

 The printing and publishing history statement (see below) indicatesnwhether Modern Library printings were from newly set plates (in whichncase the printings constitute an edition in their own right) or whethernthe printings were from an original publisher’s plates (in which casenthe printings constitute a subsidiary edition within the parentnedition).  

 **Binding and Jacket Variants**nThe terms *issue* and *state* apply only to the sheets of a book withinna single printing. Binding and jacket variants have no bearing onn*state* and *issue* as correctly applied. The Modern Library did notnalways bind an entire printing at the same time. A portion of a printingncould be stored as unbound sheets and cased as needed, with the resultnthat books printed at the same time are sometimes found in variantnbindings. Boni & Liveright printings can be found in Modern Library,nInc., bindings, for example. Cerf and Klopfer acquired the remainingnBoni & Liveright stock when they bought the Modern Library in 1925. Mostnof the books they acquired had not been cased; the sheets were foldednand sewn with Boni & Liveright endpapers tipped onto the outer leaves.nCerf and Klopfer had the sheets cased in the Modern Library, Inc.,nbinding featuring the newly designed torchbearer device. They alsonprinted new Modern Library, Inc., jackets. There is one Boni & Liverightntitle that was discontinued shortly after 1925 and never reprinted bynCerf and Klopfer, yet they printed a new jacket for it in which thenremaining Boni & Liveright copies were sold.  

 The format and design of Modern Library titles, including binding andnjacket variants, are described as much as possible for the series as anwhole. The only descriptions of format and design in the entries are fornaspects unique to particular titles. The size of the books is indicatednonly when it differs from the standard format (a few titles werenslightly larger so that they could be printed from original plates). ThenModern Library always used uniform binding designs and endpapers.nEndpapers are described only for the few titles that did not use thenstandard endpapers of the period. Uniform jacket designs were used fornall titles through spring 1928 and for some newly published titles intonthe 1930s. Descriptions of uniform jackets in the entries refer to thenillustrations where they are reproduced; text describing the work fromnthe front panel or jacket flap is reproduced in the entries. An attemptnhas been made to note all of the variant jackets used within a givennfamily of printings.  

 **Elements of the Entry**n*Heading*. The boldface heading includes the following elements: (1)nbibliography number; (2) author or editor; (3) title; (4) year ofnpublication followed by the year the Modern Library edition wasndiscontinued; (5) Modern Library catalogue number. The bibliographynnumber is unique to this bibliography. Modern Library catalogue numbersnwere assigned by the publisher and appear in the heading withinnparentheses. Catalogue numbers of discontinued titles were usuallynreassigned the following season to newly published titles; somencatalogue numbers were used over the years for four or five titles. ThenModern Library occasionally changed a title’s catalogue number; in suchncases both numbers appear in the heading. Additional information aboutnthe change appears in the publishing history notes.  

 *Subheads for families of printings*. The boldface subhead for eachnfamily of printings includes the following elements: (1) expandednbibliography number identifying a specific family of printings, ornbibliography number in unexpanded form for Modern Library titles that donnot exist in multiple families of printings; (2) short description suchnas *First printing*, *Text reset*, or *Introduction added*; (3) year ofnfirst printing within a family of printings.  

 *Title page transcription*. Title pages are described usingnquasi-facsimile transcription. Quasi-facsimile transcription describesneach line of the title page. Lines may consist of text, rules,nornaments, publisher’s devices, or an illustration. Line endings arenindicated by a vertical stroke \[ | ]. References to specific linesnlater in the entry are by line number; it is the reader’s responsibilitynto ascertain the line number by counting the vertical strokes indicatingnline endings. Quasi-facsimile transcriptions reproduce roman, *italic*,nscript, and gothic types and distinguish capital and lowercase letters.nFull and small roman capitals are distinguished when both appear *in thensame line*. No further attempt is made to distinguish the size or stylenof type. Rules, ornaments and illustrations are described in lowercasentype enclosed in square brackets. The word “rule” in square bracketsnrefers to a rule that extends the full width of the text page; any rulenshorter than this is described as a “short rule” and can range in lengthnfrom a few millimeters to nearly the full width of the text page.nPublisher’s devices such as the Boni & Liveright device and the MLntorchbearer are identified with a reference to the illustrations wherenthey are reproduced. The description of a title page that is enclosednentirely within a double rule-frame begins with a statement such as:n\[within double rules]. A rule-frame is not regarded as a line of thentitle page and the statement describing it is not followed by a verticalnstroke. The first line of the title page is the first line within anrule-frame.  

 *Pagination statement and collational formula*. The pagination statementnaccounts for every page of the book and is based on the printed pagennumerals in the book being described. Unnumbered pages at the beginningnor end of a sequence that can be inferred as part of a sequence ofnnumbered pages are indicated within square brackets. Unnumbered pagesnthat cannot be inferred as part of a sequence of numbered pages arenindicated as an italicized total within square brackets, as follows:n\[*6*], 1–280 \[281–282]. Unnumbered pages within a sequence ofnnumbered pages are not noted. Two characteristics found in some of thenpagination statements require explanation. When the Modern Library usednoriginal publishers’ plates it sometimes added new matter to thenpreliminaries without repaginating the preliminaries of the originalnedition. The result could be two incompatible sequences of pagination innthe preliminaries. These have been transcribed as they appear followingnthe guidelines indicated above.  

 Leaves containing a fly title (a second half title preceding the openingnpage of the text) have also presented problems. The fly title isnproperly regarded as part of the text; when a fly title leaf is present,nthe text usually begins with p. 3. Occasionally a fly title leaf cannotnbe inferred as part of the text because the text begins with p. 1. Innsuch cases the fly title and its verso (usually blank) have beenntranscribed as \[*2*] following the guidelines for unnumbered pagesnthat cannot be inferred as part of a sequence of printed page numerals.  

 The collational formula appears after the pagination statement. Thencollation indicates how the printed sheets were folded and how a givennbook was physically put together. This information is primarily ofninterest to professional bibliographers, but it also reveals usefulninformation about trends in printing and bookmaking practices over thencourse of the twentieth century. Gatherings in Modern Library books arenrarely signed and the number of gatherings is indicated by numeralsnwithin square brackets. The number of leaves in each gathering isnindicated in superscript numerals outside the square brackets. Abnormalngatherings with inserted or canceled leaves are recorded usingnconventional formulas containing the symbols “+,” “-,” or “±.” A handfulnof Modern Library books were printed from older plates containingnprinted signatures. None of these was printed as signed and the printednsignatures are ignored in the collation.  

 Collational statements are customary in scholarly bibliographies ofnearly printed books. Many bibliographers consider them less importantnfor bibliographies of twentieth century books and they are commonlynomitted. I would like to add a personal statement in support of theirnvalue. Collations are intensely time consuming: the bibliographer has tongo through each book leaf by leaf to determine the number of gatheringsnand the number of leaves in each. In most Modern Library books thengatherings consist of 8, 16, or 32 leaves. A leaf is a physical unit ofna book that can be grasped between the thumb and forefinger; each leafnhas two pages, the recto and the verso. Rectos are odd-numbered pages,nversos are even-numbered pages. A gathering of 8 leaves consists of 16npages; a gathering of 16 leaves consists of 32 pages. Not all pages havenprinted page numbers. Before “perfect” (glued) bindings became the normnin the American trade publishing industry, most hardbound books werensewn. If you open a book at the center of a gathering you can see thenthread in the gutter. To compile the collational formula, thenbibliographer examines a book leaf by leaf, noting the thread in thencenter of a gathering, and noting the number of gatherings. If the totalnnumber of leaves in a book is not a multiple of 8, 16, or 32, gatheringsnat the beginning or end of the volume may have fewer leaves than thenrest of the volume. Leaves at the end of the volume that are not needednfor a book’s printed content may be left blank; with Modern Librarynbooks they were often used for lists of titles.  

 Going through a book with great care and noting the number of leaves inneach gathering is a time-consuming process. When I decided to includencollations in the bibliography, I had already done title-pagentranscriptions and pagination statements for the books in my ownncollection and those of two other major Modern Library collectors I hadnthe benefit of examining during the early stages of the project. Doingnthe collations for the books in my own collection took about a year.nThis work was worthwhile in three respects. First, it gave me a level ofnintimacy with the books as physical objects that a bibliographer ideallynshould have. Second, it saved me from several errors in recordingnpaginations. The pagination statement records the total number of pagesnin a book, whether or not the pages are numbered; the collation recordsnthe total number of leaves. When correctly recorded, the number of pagesnis twice the number of leaves. When the Modern Library printed fromnoriginal publisher’s plates but added material unique to the ModernnLibrary edition such as a new introduction, it was sometimes necessarynto omit or add leaves in order to make the ML printing fit a typicaln8-leaf format. Third, it revealed trends in printing practices over thencourse of the twentieth century.  

 *List of contents*. The list of contents amplifies the paginationnstatement by indicating the contents of every page of the book,nincluding blank pages. Some statements in the contents list employnquasi-facsimile transcription (for example: v–xiii; INTRODUCTION signednp. xiii: <span class="smallcaps">Pearl S. Buck</span>). Genericnstatements in the contents list are entirely in lower-case letters (fornexample: \[*1*] half title; \[i] title; 3–\[375] text; \[376]nblank); any statement entirely in lower-case letters is not part of anquasi-facsimile transcription. Lists of Modern Library titles in volumesnpublished after August 1925 are dated by spring or fall of a given year.nThe date appears in parentheses following the list of contents. Exceptnfor books printed from offset plates, lists of titles in Modern Librarynbooks were normally updated in each printing. Any Modern Library listnfrom fall 1925 on can be dated using the dating key.  

 The verso of the title page is subject to greater change from onenprinting to another than any other part of Modern Library books exceptnfor lists of Modern Library titles, which from 1925 to 1963 were updatedntwice a year. The verso of the title page is described selectively innthe contents list. Publication and manufacturing statements are onlynnoted when they are the *only* printed matter on the page. Copyrightnstatements are given in full using quasi-facsimile transcription, as aren*First* statements such as “First Printing” or “FIRST *Modern Library*nEDITION.” From fall 1925 on it was customary for first Modern Librarynprintings to include a *First* statement on the verso of the title page.n*First* statements were normally removed after the first printing, butnthere are numerous examples of *First* statements that were retainednthrough two or more printings. The retention of *First* statements onnlater printings is noted whenever this has been observed. If not notednotherwise, it should be assumed that the *First* statement was removednfrom subsequent printings within a family. Not all first printings ofnModern Library titles had a *First* statement. If a *First* statement isnnot noted in the description of the first printing it can be assumednthat the first printing lacked such a statement. The presence or absencenof a *First* statement is never conclusive evidence of priority innModern Library printings.  

 Except for books printed from offset plates, Modern Library lists in thenback matter usually offer the most conclusive evidence for dating anprinting. Books printed from offset plates generally did not includenthese lists because they were produced from photographic copies ofnearlier printings. The lists would have been outdated and were excluded.  

 *Variant printings*. Subsequent printings within a family of printingsnthat vary significantly from the printing described are noted in annindented paragraph headed *Variant*. If more than one variant printingnhas been noted, the indented paragraphs are headed *Variant A*, *VariantnB*, etc. Most variants result from a change in the total number ofnleaves, a change in the pagination statement because of the removal of anbattered page numeral from the plates, or a change in the copyrightnstatement. Variants within a family of printings that are encounterednroutinely are not noted. These include changes in Modern Library listsnin the back matter (including the allocation of pages in the back matternbetween lists and blank pages), changes in publisher’s notes, andnchanges in the collational formula that do not result from a change innthe number of leaves. (It was common for the plates to be imposedndifferently from one Modern Library printing to another. Modern Librarynbooks were printed initially in 8’s, then in 16’s, then mostly in 32’s.nA gathering printed in 16’s in one printing might be printed as two 8’snin another printing. Books that did not consist of an even multiple ofnsixteen leaves usually placed the gathering of four, eight, or twelvenleaves at the end of the book until the late 1940s when such gatheringsnbegan to appear in the penultimate position followed by a gathering inn16’s.  

 *Contents note*. A contents note headed *Contents* lists the worksnincluded in original Modern Library collections and anthologies unlessnthese have been fully listed in the list of contents. I have used thenterm “collection” to refer to a volume consisting of multiple works by ansingle author, and the word “anthology” to refer to a volume consistingnof the works of multiple authors. (As noted above, the “List ofncontents” is primarily concerned with the physical make-up of a book andnaccounts for the contents of every page. The “Contents note” isnconcerned solely with intellectual contents and does not indicate pagennumbers.) Some contents notes for poetry anthologies list the poetsnincluded and the number of poems by each but do not attempt to listnindividual poems by title.  

 *Jackets*. Jacket descriptions appear in separate paragraphs headedn*Jacket*. Each jacket design used within a family of printings isndescribed separately; if there are multiple jackets, the paragraphs arenheaded *Jacket A*, *Jacket B*, etc. Uniform typographic jacket designsnare identified with reference to structure and composition. Othernjackets are described individually. Jacket descriptions include enoughninformation to distinguish successive jackets within a family ofnprintings but do not fully describe each jacket. Most descriptions ofnindividually designed jackets describe the front panel only; the jacketnspine is described when it differs significantly from the design of thenfront panel. Colors have been described according to *ISCC-NBSnColor-Name Charts Illustrated with Centroid Colors* published by thenNational Bureau of Standards. Back panels of Modern Library jackets werenuniform; successive back panel designs are described and illustrated innthe section on format and design.  

 Jacket descriptions transcribe the descriptive paragraphs about thenwork. These descriptive paragraphs appeared on the front panel ofnuniform typographic jackets used from 1917 through spring 1928 and onnthe front flap of jackets from fall 1933 on. (Jackets printed from falln1928 through spring 1933 had brief blurbs on the front panel but nondescriptive paragraphs about the work.) The descriptive paragraphsnsometimes indicate why a work was included in the Modern Library andnprovide valuable information about how canonical and semi-canonicalnworks were presented to American readers at given periods. Descriptivenparagraphs for works that remained in the Modern Library for decadesnwere commonly rewritten several times. The transcription of successivendescriptive paragraphs for a work like *Madame Bovary*, which was in thenModern Library since 1917, can be especially interesting.  

 Beginning in fall 1953, the text on the flaps and back panels of ModernnLibrary jackets was reset in sans-serif type. Most of the descriptivenparagraphs were reset without change but some were extensively rewrittennand others were slightly revised. Major changes are fully described. Annattempt has been made to incorporate minor revisions in thentranscriptions of the original paragraphs using square brackets aroundnalterations together with the symbols “-,” “+,” and “±” to indicatendeletions from the original text and additions or substitutions in thenreset text.  

 Jackets from fall 1925 through fall 1963 included a complete list ofncurrent Modern Library titles that were updated twice a year. Eachnprinting of Modern Library jackets used the current list. Jacketndescriptions from fall 1925 through fall 1963 are dated by spring ornfall of a given year on the basis of the list of titles. Any ModernnLibrary jacket containing a list of titles can be dated using the datingnkey. It must be remembered that a date assigned to a jacket does notnconclusively date the book inside the jacket. Most Modern Librarynprintings were distributed with newly printed jackets that correspond tonthe date of the printing, but there were occasions when older jacketsnwere used on at least some copies of a printing. At one period in then1930s, Modern Library sales representatives carried stocks ofnreplacement jackets so they could freshen Modern Library displays innbookstores; sales representatives were encouraged to offer to freshennModern Library stocks as a way of getting their foot in the door whennbooksellers protested they did not need additional books. Switchingnjackets from one copy of a book to another has always been a commonnpractice among collectors and booksellers. The only reasonably certainnway of dating a given printing of a Modern Library book is by means of anModern Library list at the end of the book. But not all titles or allnprintings of a given title include Modern Library lists. And while listsnat the end of the book were normally updated in each printing fromnletterpress plates, lists in books printed from offset plates were notnalways updated.  

 *Printing and publishing history statement and sources*. A paragraphnwith printing and publishing history information follows thenbibliographical description. The original American publisher isnidentified for modern works. Modern Library printings have been comparednwith the original publisher’s printings to ascertain the source of thenplates. For titles printed from an original publisher’s plates, thenprecise pages printed from the plates are identified, making it easy tondistinguish content that is original to Modern Library printings.nContent omitted from original publishers’ printings (such asnillustrations, introductions or indexes) is also noted. The phrasen“printed from newly set plates” indicates that the Modern Librarynprinted from plates made from an original typesetting; Modern Librarynprintings from newly set plates constitute a new bibliographical editionnas defined above. The publication date as announced by the ModernnLibrary is indicated; the date is rarely more precise than the month ornseason of a given year. Following the announced publication date is thendate the Modern Library edition was listed in the “Weekly Record”nsection of *Publishers’ Weekly*, designated with the initials *WR*. Thennext element of the printing and publishing history statement is thennumber of copies in the first Modern Library printing, if this has beennascertained. The last element is the date the Modern Library edition wasndiscontinued, if applicable.  

 The publishing history notes are based primarily on research in thenRandom House archives at Columbia University Library. Other archivalncollections consulted include the Horace Liveright Papers at thenUniversity of Pennsylvania Library, Boni & Liveright archives in thenpossession of the W. W. Norton Co., and several other manuscriptncollections. The publishing history notes include information aboutnreprint negotiations, financial arrangements with original publishers,nnegotiations with authors of introductions, and information onnprintings, and sales. The information provided under each entry variesnaccording to which records survived in the archival collectionsnconsulted. Collectively the publishing history notes make a significantncontribution to our knowledge of twentieth-century reprint publishing.n