##**PREFACE**  

 The Modern Library was the most important American reprint series ofnsignificant works of literature and thought published in the twentiethncentury. The series was founded in spring 1917 and published initiallynby Boni & Liveright. It was purchased in 1925 by Bennett Cerf, a youngnBoni & Liveright vice-president, who established a new firm, The ModernnLibrary, Inc., in partnership with Donald S. Klopfer. Initially Cerf andnKlopfer focused their attention on developing the Modern Library. Inn1927 they began to publish and distribute fine limited editions undernthe imprint Random House. Occasional trade books, including the firstnauthorized American edition of James Joyce’s *Ulysses*, followed. Inn1936 they reorganized the firm as Random House, Inc., and the ModernnLibrary became a subsidiary of its offspring.  

 The Modern Library differed from British reprint series like Everyman’snLibrary and The World’s Classics in that its list was not limitednprimarily to older classics in the public domain but also includednmodern works that were reprinted by arrangement with the originalnpublishers. Modern Library books were the only inexpensive editions ofnserious literary works that were widely distributed and readilynavailable in bookstores and major department stores throughout thenUnited States prior to the advent of quality paperbacks in 1953. Fornmost readers of serious books, the Modern Library was the most tangiblenrepresentation of the literary canon in the American culturalnmarketplace.  

 The current project covers the titles that came into the series betweenn1925 and 1959 during the years Bennett Cerf was at Random House and thenModern Library was the most prolific. This is part of a largernunpublished project covering the entire span of the Modern Library, 1917nthrough 1986.  

 The current project contributes to bibliographical knowledge at severalnlevels. It provides a detailed bibliographical description of everyntitle that initially came into the Modern Library over 25 years andnfollows it over time through multiple printing variants. It describesnthe major variants of each title, documenting the historical evolutionnof each title through reset texts, reset title pages, revisedntranslations, introductions added and dropped, redesigned dust jackets,netc. The chronological arrangement, with indications of titles droppednas well as added each year, provides a barometer of trends in literaryntaste over time, and also reveals trends in printing and publishingnpractices. The descriptive blurbs on the dust jackets tell us somethingnabout the publisher’s conception of works in the series and thenintellectual context in which they were marketed to the reading public.nThe transcription of blurbs from successive jackets reveals changes innthe ways Modern Library titles were presented to the public over time.  

 The publishing history notes, based on research in the Random Housenarchives, constitute a pioneering contribution to our knowledge ofntwentieth-century reprint publishing. The publishing history andnbibliographical analysis of reprint editions have received surprisinglynlittle scholarly attention; yet it is the reprint publisher whongenerally disseminates a work to its largest audience, who determinesnwhether a work remains in print or ceases to be commercially available,nand who may even contribute something to the shaping of the canon. Thenpublishing history notes frequently provide information about reprintnnegotiations between original publishers and the Modern Library. Wenlearn who initiated discussions, what the concerns of each party were,nand what the conventions of reprint agreements were at different periodsnof the Modern Library’s history. Financial arrangements between thenModern Library, original publishers, and authors are indicated whenevernpossible, as is information about printings and sales. Much newninformation is also provided about the publishing histories ofnindividual authors.  

 The bibliography also contributes something to bibliographical method.nMany Modern Library titles remained in the series for decades and werenreprinted every year or two. The description of such books presents annumber of bibliographical challenges. I have not attempted to tracknevery printing of every title. My approach has been to distinguishnbibliographical editions resulting from reset plates and then withinneditions to establish what I call families of printings based on majornbibliographical variants, such as reset title pages and introductionsnadded and dropped. This approach is described below in thenBibliographical Procedures section of the Introduction. I believe itnoffers a useful approach to the bibliographical ordering ofntwentieth-century books that exist in numerous printings made from thensame set of plates.  

 The origins of the bibliography go back to the fall of 1976 when Inlearned about the Random House archives at Columbia University. I was innNew York investigating possible source materials for a dissertation onnAmerican publishing history. The topic I was considering dealt with annearlier period, and when I became aware of the depth and wealth of thenRandom House archives, my first reaction was simply that someone wouldnhave a lot of fun going through them. It was several days before Inconsidered the possibility that that person could be me. On my lastnevening in New York, Terry Belanger, then of the School of LibrarynService at Columbia University, casually mentioned at dinner that thenModern Library series would be a good dissertation topic. I had justnenough time before my flight the next morning to stop by the ManuscriptnReading Room at Butler Library to confirm that the Random House archivesnincluded sources for the Modern Library. When I returned to thenUniversity of Chicago I had a new dissertation topic.  Dr. Belanger’sninterest in the project is woven through its history, and decades laternhe, as a member of the Council of the Bibliographical Society of thenUniversity of Virginia, encouraged the Society to undertake itsnpublication.  

 I spent fourteen months in 1977and 1978 immersed in the Random Housenarchives. That research gave me a vast amount of information about thenpublication of individual Modern Library titles. Toward the end of myntime in New York I decided that I would eventually compile anbibliography of the Modern Library in addition to writing a history ofnthe series. I began collecting Modern Library books systematically andnthinking about the kind of bibliography I would prepare. I’m anself-taught bibliographer and it took me a few years to figure out whatnI was doing. Meanwhile I was acquiring more and more books andnestablishing contacts with other Modern Library collectors. Thesencontacts were facilitated by *The Modern Library Collector*, annewsletter established in 1981 by Alan Oestreich, a collector innCincinnati. I have contributed a biannual column, "Bibliographical Notesnand Queries," to *The Modern Library Collector* since 1982 and havenbenefitted immeasurably from the exchange of information it has madenpossible.  

 The bibliography is based on my research in the Random House archivesnand the examination of nearly 20,000 Modern Library books in my ownncollection and other major collections throughout the United States. Inam grateful to the private collectors who welcomed me into their homesnand provided hospitality and assistance. I am also grateful to thenNational Endowment for the Humanities for a Travel to Collections grantnthat partially supported visits to seven private collections during thensummer of 1992.  

 David Vander Meulen, Professor of English at the Universitynof Virginia, and the Council of the Bibliographical Society of thenUniversity of Virginia under its long-term president G. Thomas Tansellenhave given invaluable support for this project for many years and arenresponsible for leading the effort to publish it.  Dr. Vander Meulen’snpatience and support have been extraordinary.  Anne Ribble, ExecutivenSecretary for the Bibliographical Society of the University of Virginia,nand Elizabeth Lynch, Assistant to the Editor for the BibliographicalnSociety, have contributed in multiple ways to the project. Their abilitynto identify errors, ambiguities, and similar problems has beenninvaluable and has led to significant improvements in the text.  I alsongratefully acknowledge the support of the co-publisher of this work, thenUniversity of Virginia Library, which is providing the technology tonmake the bibliography available to the world.  The imaginative andnmeticulous work of Mike Durbin and his team has given fresh evidence ofnthe UVa Library’s preeminence in digital humanities.  

 I would like to express my sincere appreciation to my wife, Mary AnnnSheble, who has lived with this project our entire married life and hasnspent many hours assisting me with the technical and organizationalnaspects of the project.n