**SOURCES AND WORKS CITED**  nThe number of bibliographies and other works that were consulted overnthe decades in which this work was in progress is very large. Onlynpublished works that are cited in the bibliography are included.  n**Archival collections and documents**  nBennett Cerf Papers, 1898–1977. Rare Book & Manuscript Library, ColumbianUniversity Library.  nBerg Collection. Norman Douglas Papers. New York Public Library.  nHorace Liveright Collection. W. W. Norton Company. Used with thenpermission of Victor Schmalzer, formerly vice president, W. W. Norton.  nHorace Liveright papers, 1902–32, Ms. Coll. 896, Kislak Center fornSpecial Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts, University ofnPennsylvania.  n   nManuel Komroff Papers, 1890–1974. Rare Book & Manuscript Library,nColumbia University Library. The Komroff Papers include the typescriptsnof Komroff’s unpublished biography of Liveright, and Liveright’snunpublished, untitled autobiography.  nRandom House Records, 1925–99. Rare Book & Manuscript Library, ColumbianUniversity Library.  nSaxe Commins Papers, 1930–73. Special Collections, Princeton UniversitynLibrary.  nSherwood Anderson Papers, 1872–1992. Newberry Library, Chicago.  nStephen Crane Papers, 1847–1945. Accession \#5505. Special Collections,nUniversity of Virginia Library.  n**Oral histories**  nBoni, Albert. Oral History. Interviewed by Dr. Alex Baskin, October 20,n1972. Tamiment Library, New York University. Consulted with thenpermission of Alex Baskin.  nBook-of-the-Month Club Project Oral History. Oral History Archives atnColumbia, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Columbia University, recordedn1955. Transcript available.  nCerf, Bennett. Reminiscences of Bennett Alfred Cerf: Oral HistorynArchives at Columbia, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, ColumbianUniversity, recorded 1967–68. Audio and transcript available online.nTranscript originally consulted with the permission of Phyllis CerfnWagner. Available online at:n<http://www.columbia.edu/cu/lweb/digital/collections/nny/cerfb/index.html>  nKlopfer, Donald S. Reminiscences of Donald Simon Klopfer Oral History.nOral History Archives at Columbia, Rare Book & Manuscript Library,nColumbia University, recorded 1962 and 1975. Originally consulted withnthe permission of Donald S. Klopfer.  n**Works cited**  nAlpert, Hollis. *The Life and Times of Porgy and Bess: The Story of annAmerican Classic*. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1990.  nAltick, Richard D. *A Little Bit of Luck: The Making of an AdventurousnScholar*. Bloomington, Ind.: Xlibris Corporation, 2002.  n*American Literary Publishing Houses, 1900–1980: Trade and Paperback*,ned. Peter Dzwonkoski. Dictionary of Literary Biography, vol. 46.nDetroit, MI.: Gale Research, 1986.  nBannister, Henry S. *Donn Byrne: A Descriptive Bibliography, 1912–1935*.nNew York: Garland Publishing, 1982.  nBloomfield, B. C. and Edward Mendelson. *W. H. Auden: A Bibliography,n1924–1969*. 2nd ed. Charlottesville: Published for the BibliographicalnSociety of the University of Virginia by the University Press ofnVirginia, 1972.  nBonn, Thomas L. *Heavy Traffic & High Culture: New American Library asnLiterary Gatekeeper in the Paperback Revolution*. Carbondale: SouthernnIllinois University Press, 1989.  nBonnell, F. W. and F. C. Bonnell. *Conrad Aiken: A Bibliographyn(1902–1978).* San Marino, CA: Huntington Library, 1982.  nBowden, Edwin T. *James Thurber: A Bibliography*. Columbus: Ohio StatenUniversity Press, 1968.  nBowers, Fredson. *Essays in Bibliography, Text, and Editing*.nCharlottesville: Published for the Bibliographical Society of thenUniversity of Virginia by the University Press of Virginia, 1975.  nBoyer, Paul S. *Purity in Print: Book Censorship in America from thenGilded Age to the Computer Age*. 2nd ed. Madison: University ofnWisconsin Press, 2002.  nBruccoli, Matthew J. *John O’Hara: A Descriptive Bibliography*.nPittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1978.  n———. *The O’Hara Concern: A Biography of John O’Hara*. New York: RandomnHouse, 1975.  n———. *Some Sort of Epic Grandeur: The Life of F. Scott Fitzgerald*. 2ndnrev. ed. Columbia, SC: University of South Carolina Press, 2002.  n———. “Textual Variants in Sinclair Lewis’s *Babbitt*.” *Studies innBibliography* 11 (1958): 263*–*68. Available online:nhttp://xtf.lib.virginia.edu/xtf/view?docId=StudiesInBiblio/uvaBook/tei/sibv011.xml  nBrussel, I. R. *A Bibliography of the Writings of James Branch Cabell: AnRevised Bibliography*. Philadelphia: Centaur Book Shop, 1932.  nCerf, Bennett. *At Random: The Reminiscences of Bennett Cerf*. New York:nRandom House, 1977.  n——— and Donald Klopfer. *Dear Donald, Dear Bennett: The WartimenCorrespondence of Bennett Cerf and Donald Klopfer*. New York: RandomnHouse, 2002.  nCharvat, William. *The Profession of Authorship in America, 1800–1870:nThe Papers of William Charvat*. Ed. Matthew J. Bruccoli. Columbus: OhionState University Press, 1968.  nCommins, Dorothy. *What Is an Editor? Saxe Commins at Work*. Chicago:nUniversity of Chicago Press, 1978.  n———, ed. *“Love and Admiration and Respect”: The O’Neill-ComminsnCorrespondence*. Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 1986.  nCoustillas, Pierre. *George Gissing: The Definitive Bibliography*. HighnWycombe, Eng.: Rivendale Press, 2005.  nCrandell, George W. *Ogden Nash: A Descriptive Bibliography*. Metuchen,nNJ: Scarecrow Press, 1990.  nDardis, Tom. *Firebrand: The Life of Horace Liveright*. New York: RandomnHouse, 1995.  nDzwonkoski, Peter, ed. *American Literary Publishing Houses 1900–1980:nTrade and Paperback.* Detroit: Gale Research, 1986.  nEgleston, Charles, ed. *The House of Boni & Liveright, 1917–1933: AnDocumentary Volume*. Dictionary of Literary Biography, vol. 288.nDetroit: Thompson Gale, 2004.  nFirmage, George J. *E. E. Cummings: A Bibliography*. Middletown, CT:nWesleyan University Press, 1960.  nGarrison, Stephen. *Edith Wharton: A Descriptive Bibliography*.nPittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1990.  nGelb, Arthur and Barbara Gelb. *O’Neill*. New York: Harper & Brothers,n1962.  nGetscher, Robert H. and Paul G. Marks. *James McNeill Whistler and JohnnSinger Sargent: Two Annotated Bibliographies*. New York: GarlandnPublishing, 1986.  nGrimshaw, James A., Jr. *Robert Penn Warren: A Descriptive Bibliography,n1922–79*. Charlottesville: Published for the Bibliographical Society ofnthe University of Virginia by the University Press of Virginia, 1981.  nHackett, Alice Payne and James Henry Burke. *80 Years of Best Sellers,n1895–1975*. New York: R. R. Bowker, 1977.  nHansen, Thomas S. *Classic Book Jackets: The Design Legacy of GeorgenSalter*. New York: Princeton Architectural Press, 2005.  nHarter, Evelyn. *The Making of William Faulkner’s Books, 1929–1937: AnnInterview with Evelyn Harter Glick*. Columbia, SC: Southern StudiesnProgram, University of South Carolina, 1979.  nKinnamon, Kenneth. “Anthologies of African-American Literature from 1845nto 1994.” [*<u>Callaloo</u>*](about:blank) 20, no. 2 (Spring 1997):n461*–*81.  nKirkpatrick, B. J. *A Bibliography of E. M. Forster*. 2nd ed. Oxford:nClarendon Press, 1985.  n———. *A Bibliography of Virginia Woolf*. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1980.  nLee, Marshall. *Bookmaking: The Illustrated Guide tonDesign/Production/Editing*. 2nd ed., rev. and exp. New York: R. R.nBowker, 1979. Excerpt also in Proquest’s *One Literature Database*.nPermission provided by Proquest LLC.  nLehan, Richard. “Note on the Texts,” in Theodore Dreiser, *SisternCarrie; Jennie Gerhardt; Twelve Men,* 1159–63*.* Library of America. NewnYork: Literary Classics of the United States, 1987.  nLevin, Alexandra Lee. *Dare to Be Different: A Biography of Lewis H.nLevin of Baltimore, a Pioneer in Jewish Social Service.* New York: BlochnPublishing Co., 1972.  nLevin, Harry. “Toward Stendhal: An Essay, to Which Is Appended an “OpennLetter” by George Mayberry to the Publisher of the Modern Library.”n*Pharos* 3 (Winter 1945).  nLewis, Sinclair. *Main Street & Babbitt*. Notes by John Hersey. NewnYork: Library of America, 1992.  nLiveright, Horace. Autobiography (typescript of unpublished, untitlednautobiography). *In* Manuel Komroff Papers, Columbia University Library.  nMadison, Charles A. *Book Publishing in America*. New York: McGraw-Hill,n1966.  n*Modern Library Collector*, nos. 1–55 (1981–2008). Semi-annualnnewsletter edited by Alan Oestreich; nos. 4–55 include a column,n“Bibliographical Notes and Queries,” by Gordon B. Neavill.  nMorgan, Kathleen. “Frances Steloff and the Gotham Book Mart.” *Journalnof Modern Literature* 4 (April 1975): 737*–*48.  nMyers, Andrew B. “‘I Am Used to Being Dunned’: F. Scott Fitzgerald andnthe Modern Library.” *Columbia Library Columns* 25 (February 1976):n28*–*39.  nNadeau, Luis. *Encyclopedia of Printing, Photographic, andnPhotomechanical Processes: A Comprehensive Reference to ReproductionnTechnologies, Containing Invaluable Information on over 1500 Processes*.nOne-volume edition. Fredericton, New Brunswick: L. Nadeau, 1994.nOriginally published in 2 vols., 1989*–*90.  nNadel, Ira B. “The American Ulysses: ‘A Lasting Boom.’” *James JoycenQuarterly* 28, no. 4 (Summer 1991): 967*–*81.  nNeavill, Gordon B. “Publishing in Wartime: The Modern Library Seriesnduring the Second World War.” *Library Trends* 55, no. 3 (Winter 2007):n583*–*96.  n*Northwestern University on the Air, The Reviewing Stand*. Evanston, IL:nNorthwestern University Radio Dept., 1943–49.  nPayne, John R. *W. H. Hudson: A Bibliography*. Folkstone, Eng.: Dawson;nHamden, CT: Archon, 1977.  nPenzler, Otto, ed. *The Black Lizard Big Book of Black Mask Stories*.nNew York: Vintage Books, 2010.  nPolk, Noel. *Eudora Welty: A Bibliography of Her Work*. Jackson:nUniversity Press of Mississippi, 1994.  n———. “The Text of the Modern Library *A Curtain of Green*.” *EudoranWelty Newsletter* 3, no. 1-A (Winter 1979): 6*–*9.  nRider, Philip R. “The Three States of the Text of Kosinski’s *ThenPainted Bird*.” *Papers of the Bibliographical Society of America* 72n(1978): 361*–*84.  nRoberts, Warren. *A Bibliography of D. H. Lawrence*. 2nd ed. Cambridge:nCambridge University Press, 1982.  nSlocum, John J. and Herbert Cahoon. *A Bibliography of James Joyce,n1882–1941*. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1953.  nTanselle, G. Thomas and Jackson R. Bryer. “The Great Gatsby: A Study ofnLiterary Reputation.” *New Mexico Quarterly* 33, no. 4 (Wintern1963*–*64): 409*–*25.  nTebbel, John. *A History of Book Publishing in the United States*. 4nvols. New York: R. R. Bowker, 1972*–*81.  nTurnbull, Andrew. *Scott Fitzgerald*. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons,n1962.  nWest, James L. W.. III. “The Composition and Publication of *SisternCarrie*,” *Dreiser Web Source* (2000) Philadelphia: University ofnPennsylvania Library.  nWhite, E. B. *Letters of E. B. White*, ed. Dorothy Lobrano Guth. NewnYork: Harper & Row, 1976.  nWilson, Edmund. *Axel’s Castle: A Study in the Imaginative Literature ofn1870–1930*. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1931.  

 Woolf, Cecil. *A Bibliography of Frederick Rolfe, Baron Corvo*. Rev. andnenl. ed. London: Rupert Hart-Davis, 1972.  

 ———. *A Bibliography of Norman Douglas*. London: Rupert Hart-Davis,n1954.n