<!-- altadded -->
<!-- altadded -->

<!-- llmmeta -->

<script type="application/ld+json">
{
"@context": "http://schema.org",
"@type": "BoardMinutes",
"name": "Board of Visitors minutes",
"startDate": "1923-07-13",
"endDate": "1923-07-13",
"location": {
"@type": "Place",
"name": "University of Virginia",
"address": "Charlottesville, Virginia"
},
"organizer": {
"@type": "Organization",
"name": "University of Virginia, Board of Visitors"
},
"keywords": "Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, Pediatrics, Professor election",
"description": "Minutes of the special meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia held on July 13, 1923, to discuss the establishment of a chair of Pediatrics and the election of Dr. Lawrence T. Royster as Professor of Pediatrics.",
"attendee": \[
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "C. Harding Walker",
"role": "Rector"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Duke",
"role": "Visitor"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Greever",
"role": "Visitor"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "McIntire",
"role": "Visitor"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Oliver",
"role": "Visitor"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Williams",
"role": "Visitor"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Alderman",
"role": "President"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Dr. Hough",
"role": "Dean of the Department of Medicine"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Lawrence T. Royster",
"role": "Elected Professor of Pediatrics"
}
],
"about": \[
{
"@type": "EducationalOrganization",
"name": "University of Virginia",
"description": "The University of Virginia is a public research university in Charlottesville, Virginia."
},
{
"@type": "MedicalOrganization",
"name": "Department of Medicine",
"description": "The Department of Medicine at the University of Virginia is responsible for medical education and patient care."
}
]
}

</script>

<!-- llmformatted -->

# Board of Visitors minutes (1923) July 13, 1923

## board of visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

July 13, 1923

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

## Board of Visitors minutes

### Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date to consider the question of creating a chair of Pediatrics in the University of Virginia and the election of a professor to fill the same. There were present the Rector, Hon. C. Harding Walker, and Visitors Duke, Greever, McIntire, Oliver and Williams.

President Alderman, being unable to be present, sent a communication to the Board in which he advocated the creation of the chair of Pediatrics and the election of a professor to fill the same, in which he was joined by Dr. Hough, Dean of the Department of Medicine.

On motion duly made and seconded the following resolution was unanimously adopted:

**RESOLVED, BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA**, That a chair of Pediatrics be and is hereby established in the Department of Medicine of this University.

On motion, duly made and seconded, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:

**RESOLVED, BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA**, That Dr. Lawrence T. Royster, (M.D., 1897) of Norfolk, Va., be and is hereby elected Professor of Pediatrics in the University of Virginia upon the following terms and conditions; he is to receive a salary of $4,500 per annum and all fees for his services in the Hospital shall go to the University, except that after one year of service the receipts from fees for his services in the University Hospital, in excess of the assured salary of $4,500 shall be divided between him and the Hospital upon such basis as may be agreed upon between him and the constituted authorities of the University.

On motion the meeting then adjourned.
