 TEI to HTML

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University called & held on the 22d March 1842 to take into consideration the profered resignation of J. J. Sylvester Professor of Mathematics in the University. Present Chapman Johnson (Rector) John H. Cocke, Thomas J. Randolph & Samuel Taylor the following resolutions were adopted

1\. Resolved that the resignation of Mr. Sylvester, be accepted, to take effect from and after the 29th day of the present month or at any earlier period that he may elect;- that a copy of this resolution be forthwith communicated to him by the Secretary, and that he be informed that in accepting his resignation the Board has not deemed it necessary to investigate the merits of the matter in difference between himself and the Student Ballard, and does not mean to impute to Mr. Sylvester any blame in that matter.

2\. Resolved that Mr. Pike Powers be appointed professor of Mathematics in the University of Virginia from and after the 29th day of the present month until the end of the session with a salary of five hundred dollars and with a right to receive such fees of Students now belonging to the Mathematical School as have not been paid and of such Students as may hereafter enter the School.

3\. Resolved that, if the appointment to the Chair of Mathematics which has been tendered to Pike Powers Esq. be declined by him, the Executive Committee, with the concurrence of any other Visitor or Visitors be authorised to fill the Chair by a temporary appointment, to terminate at the end of the session.

4\. Resolved that the Proctor be required to notice by public advertisement that the Chair of Mathematics having become vacant, by the resignation of Professor Sylvester, the Board will proceed at their annual meeting in July to fill the vacancy.

The Board then adjourned sine die.