 TEI to HTML

Officers' Salaries

$2,778.10

Labour

609.81

Repairs & Improvements

3,683.45

Library and apparatus

406.85

Advertising & printing

236.00

Appropriations for 2 years

To the school of Anatomy & Surgery

246.21

To the school of Natural Philosophy

35.00

Diplomas

18.12

Clock & Bell

25.00

Contingent Expenses

309.03

Assessment against Dr. Kraitzer refunded

54.00

Sinking fund

2,581.25

19,197.82

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors called to assemble at the University on Tuesday January 20th 1846 for the purpose of meeting the legislative Committee appointed to Examine into the Condition of the University, the following members attended viz. Joseph C. Cabell (Rector) Wm. C. Rives, Thomas J. Randolph and Andrew Stevenson. The session continued for the remainder of the Week, & during it the following proceedings were had.

January 21st the Rector, by direction of the Board, addressed a letter to the legislative committee, apprizing them of the meeting of the Board and of it's desire to facilitate the enquiries of the Committee by affording all information in its power; which letter is on file & marked A.

On the same day a reply was received from the Committee (On file & marked B) propounding certain enquiries which were answered by the Board as follows & in the order of their numerical arrangemnt.

1\. Answer to the 1st Enquiry.

Considering the great importance of commanding, by adequate inducements, the highest grade of qualifications & ability in the several departments of instruction at the University, the Board of Visitors are of opinion that neither the salaries nor fees of professors can, at this time be reduced without detriment to the public interests; but if the number of Students attending the University should be materially augmented, as it is hoped will be the case, the Visitors are of opinion that, in that case, it would be expedient to make a corresponding abatement in the fees, so as to leave the aggregate compensation of the professors at about what it now is,— less than which the Visitors apprehend would not be adequate to secure that high order of attainment for the several professorships with which it is so much to be desired, for the interests of the State & of the University that they should be filled. In confirmation & illustration of the preceding views the Board of Visitors beg leave to refer the legislative Committee to what is said on this subject in the address of the Society of Alumni to the people of Virginia & which will be found at page 18 of House document No. 15 of the present session of the General Assembly.

2\. Answer to the 2d Enquiry.

The Board of Visitors at their last meeting, modified the duties of Proctor & patron & reduced his salary $500.

The Board are of opinion that no other office connected with the administration of the affairs of the University can safely be dispensed with. The Salary of the Bursar is only $100. A small saving would arise from the discontinuance of his office, but this the Board would consider as detrimental to the interests of the University.

The financial organization of the University had been framed somewhat upon the plan of that of the State viz: The Proctor holding somewhat the position of the Auditor- the Bursar that of Treasurer; so that the officer who was charged with the settlement of accounts should not have charge of the Funds, and he who had charge of the Funds should have nothing to do with the settlement of the various accounts of the Institution, a system deemed very important to ensure the safety of its funds.

3\. Answer to the 3d Question.

The Board of Visitors are impressed with the belief that no reduction can, at this time, be made in the charge for the use of the Library & public rooms consistently with the public policy & the interests of the University. This charge constitutes one of the sources of the present revenue of the Institution, any reduction of which would be incompatible with it's maintenance upon it's present scale of utility, & the timely payment of the debt now amounting to $17,000 & originally contracted for the Buildings of the University.

4\. Answer to the 4th Enquiry.

In reply to this enquiry, the Board of Visitors are of opinion that it would be advantageous to educate a limited number of State pupils free of charge at the University, and to state that a proposition was made by the University thro' the late committee of colleges at Richmond to the Legislature, to educate free 32 Boys to be selected one from each of the Senatorial districts of the State in such manner as the Legislature might deem most expedient. In educating 32 Boys free of expense a charge upon the University of $3136 would be made; thus educating free of charge nearly 1/4 of the whole number of Students now in the Institution.

In relation to the additional charge of Board, the Visitors are of opinion that the present financial revenues of the University would not allow that to be done without injury to the Institution.

5\. Answer to the 5th Enquiry.

In relation to the fifth Enquiry relative to the causes of the frequent breaches of discipline by Students of the University & especially of the late riots, the Board of Visitors would remark that it would be extremely difficult to form an opinion as to all the causes of the aforesaid disturbances; but they feel justified in expressing the opinion that the riots which occured in April last were mainly attributable to the insubordination of the parties implicated urged on by disorderly and dissipated Students who remained in the neighbourhood after having been dismissed from the University and who themselves were believed to have committed the greater part of the injury done to the buildings, as appears by evidence collected by the Court of Justices which met to enquire into the said riots.

In relation to the latter clause of the enquiry as to the inability of the Authorities of the University to enforce the regulations, the Board would respectfully invite the attention of the Committee to a resolution of the Board of Visitors passed in July last and directing that in the annual report of the Rector & Visitors it is strongly represented to the General Assembly that the Interests of the University imperatively require such legislation as will enable the Faculty to give effect to those enactments interdicting students who are dismissed, expelled, or suspended from remaining within five miles of the University.

To the above answer to the 5th enquiry adopted by the Board Mr. Rives offered a substitute which, being rejected was at his request directed by the Board to be spread upon it's records in the following words: to wit:

In answer to the 5th enquiry of the Committee, to wit: "whether the frequent breaches of discipline by the Students of the University, and especially the late riots are attributable to the insubordination of the students,- a defect in the system of regulations,- or the inability of the Authorities of the University to enforce them"- the Board of Visitors are of opinion that the breaches of discipline, & especially the late riots alluded to by the Committee, are attributable to the combined operation of all the causes indicated in the above enquiry. In the origin & progress of the late riots, a very reprehensible spirit of insubordination was manifested on the part of a certain number of the Students; but the Board of Visitors feel constrained, in the impartiality of the high of ice with which they are charged, to state that, in their judgment some unfortunate errors, to say the least were committed by the Executive authority of the University in the manner of proceeding in regard to those disturbances, which contributed both to prolong & to aggravate them, and finally to involve in the censures & penalties inflicted by the Faculty many young men of unexceptionable general deportment & guiltless of any participation in the disorderly occurrences complained of. But the Board of Visitors believing that the breaches of discipline referred to by the committee are, in great part to be traced to a deeper and more lasting source in a fundamental defect in the government of the University, are of opinion, that a new organization of its authorities is greatly to be desired which would assign to the Executive administration a permanent and responsible head in a President, charged with the moral discipline, supervision and general management of the University, standing in loco parentis to the Students and having his own character, by the singleness & elevation of his position, indissolubly identified with the character and good order of the Institution. Such an organization the Visitors are persuaded, would furnish by far the best, if not the only, remedy for the breaches of discipline which have hitherto occurred in the University; and as some doubts have been expressed as to the competency of the Board of Visitors, of their own authority, to institute the proposed change, they strongly recommend that provision be made for it by Law.

6\. Answer to the 6th Enquiry.

In answer to the sixth enquiry by the Legislative Committee the Board of Visitors would beg leave to refer the Committee to the printed enactments of the Visitors at page 30 par: 3 in the folowing words viz: "No Student shall be admitted into the mathematical school or that of Natural philosophy who is not an adept in"all the Branches of numerical Arithmetic; and none into the school of Antient languages, unless qualified, in the judgment of the professor, to commence reading the higher Latin classics; nor to receive instruction in Greek, unless qualified in the same degree in that Language."

7\. Answer to the 7th Enquiry.

Over and above the professors Salaries the following disbursements were made in the last fiscal year: viz.

For more particular details see page 14 of House document No. 15 of the present session of the General Assembly.

The preceeding replies were transmitted on the 22d January to the committee accompanied by a letter from the Rector which is on file marked C.

On the Evening of the 21st Jany: a letter was received from the Committee filed & marked D.

To this letter the Committee returned answer marked E.

On the 21st Jany: the Rector, by direction of the Board addressed a letter to the Chairman of the Faculty accompanied by a request for information on the following subjects. Letter marked F.

TOPICS OF ENQUIRY.

1\. Finances.

1\. Original cost of erecting the University.

2\. The cost of Library and apparatus.

3\. The cost of alterations & repairs.

4\. The present condition of the Buildings & other property of the Institution.

5\. The annual expense of maintaining the Institution.

In respect of professors' salaries.

\- - - - Officers' ditto.

\- - - - Repairs.

\- - - - Appropriation to Library & apparatus.

\- - - - Miscellaneous objects.

6\. Comparison of annual revenues with that of other colleges; and particularly with those of Harvard, Yale, Wm. & Mary & S. Carolina College.

7\. The necessity of extrinsic sources of revenue from all Colleges.

2\. The Organization.

1\. The Board of Visitors. 2. The Faculty: their duties, & what additional professorships.

2\. Proctor & Patron. Police duties & his duty as an accounting officer.

3\. Chairman of Faculty. His functions as Executive head of the University.

4\. Other Officers. Librarian & Secretary to the Faculty. Secretary to the Board of Visitors. Bursar. Janitor.

3\. Instruction.

1\. Plan of Instruction. Lectures. Examinations, daily, semiannual & degrees.

2\. Extent of Instruction. 1. As compared with what it formerly was in Virginia. 2. As compared with what it was elsewhere- & what it now is.

3\. Success of Instruction.

As inferred from increasing number of graduates,

As inferred from Character of Alumni.

As inferred from no. of Alumni Teachers.

Prof.s in colleges.

Teachers in private schools.

As inferred from average annual no. of new Students.

As inferred from average total number of Students annually.

4\. System of collegiate Honors.

5\. Professional Departments.

In respect to combining academic & professional education.

Thoroughness of teaching.

Extent of course of Study.

Cheapness of professional education.

4\. Expenses of Students.

1\. Board, 2. Tuition. 3. Room rent. 4. Use of Library & public rooms. 5. Aggregate Expenses,

As proved by individual examples.

Relatively with other institutions, & more expecially with Harvard, Yale, Princeton & Wm. & Mary.

The following resolutions were then adopted.

1\. Resolved that the Proctor, for the payment of small expenditures of the University shall be authorised to draw on the Bursar in warrants not exceeding fifty dollars at a time, nor in the aggregate of the session exceeding two hundred dollars & the Bursar is directed to pay the same.

2\. Resolved that the patron be required to deposit in his name as Patron the funds belonging to Students in the Branch of the Farmers' Bank at Charlot esville & to draw checks for the payment of all sums exceeding five dollars payable to the order of the parties to whom payment is made and that for the purpose of meeting claims amounting to sums less than five dollars the patron is further authorised to draw weekly such checks as will enable him to keep on hand at all times a balance not exceeding twenty five dollars.

3\. Resolved, that with a view to effect the arrangement contemplated in the preceeding resolution, the patron is authorised to require each Student to give a check for the balance now standing to his credit on the Books of the Farmers' Bank.

The Board adjourned, Saturday January 24th, sine die.