 TEI to HTML

Actual expenses

$18702.19

Expenditures

17525.48

1176.66

Receipts

$20,176.66

Expenditures

15,005.50

5,171.16

$2000

Investment of Madison Legcy

1500

Arrears of Int: due Library

540

Increased allowance to professors on acct. of excess of State Students

575

4615

Actual balance

$556.16

On Friday, the 25th day of June 1847. the day appointed in the enactments for the regular annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, no quorum appeared. Messrs. Joseph C. Cabell, Rector, John H. Cocke, & R. M. T. Funter being the only members present.

On Saturday the 26th June, Thomas J. Randolph appeared, & the Board was organized.

The following Committees were appointed.

Of Finance Messrs. Randolph & Rives.

Of Inspection Messrs. Cocke & Hunter.

The remainder of the day was employed by the committees in making the requisite investigations & no further business was done.

The Board adjourned to meet again on Monday morning.

On Monday June 28th the Board met according to adjournment: Present as on Saturday, with the addition of Mr. Stevenson who appeared & took his seat. The following proceedings were had.

A letter was received from Dr. James L. Cabell resigning his office of Professor of Anatomy & Surgery in the University of Virginia; which being read and accepted,

On motion by Mr. Stevenson it was

1\. Resolved, that the Rector be requested to communicate to Dr. James L. Cabell the sincere regret of the Board of Visitors at the necessity which is about to separate him from the University of Virginia; & to express to him the deep sense which the Board entertain of the distinguished & exemplary manner in which he has uniformly discharged the duties of his chair, & the able and efficient service he has rendered to the Institution; & also to convey to Doct: Cabell the cordial wishes of the individual members of this board for his prosperity & happiness.

On motion of the Rector:

2\. Resolved that Mr. Stevenson be authorised & requested to communicate to Doct: James L. Cabell the resolution of the Board of Visitors, accepting his resignation.

3\. Resolved that the Board of Visitors will proceed on the 1st day of September next to fill the vacancy in the chair of Anatomy and Surgery in this Institution occasioned by the resignation of Jas: L. Cabell, M.D. and that the Proctor be directed to give the usual public notice of such appointment.

4\. Resolved that Dr. James L. Cabell be authorised to retain the use of his pavilion and grounds adjacent until required for the use of his successor.

5\. Resolved that when more than ten of the number of State Students authorised to be admitted into the University shall enter the class of any professor, such professor shall be entitled to receive at the rate of $25 each for such excess to be paid by the proctor by warrant on the Bursar.

6\. Resolved that experience having proven that three schools are generally as much as well prepared Students, can attend advantageously; State Students in future will be admitted into only three schools at any one session, unless in cases of exception to be authorised by the Faculty.

7\. Resolved that the State Students before admission into the University shall give a pledge to teach either in some private or public school in Virginia during the two years after leaving the University; they being entitled to all emoluments for such tuition to be applied to their own usesProvided however that this pledge shall not be exacted from those who have been already admitted or from those who are dismissed or expelled or who leave with the permission of the Faculty before the usual term of instruction prescribed for such Students by the Visitors has expired.

At 1/2 after 12 O. Clock M. Mr. Rives appeared and took his seat at the Board.

The Committee of Inspection made their report.

8\. Resolved that, in future, the fire wood taken by the Steward from the lands of the University be cut under the direction of the Proctor.

The Finance Committee made a report which being read was adopted accompanied by a resolution as follows

Exhibiting a deficiency of the estimates in the receipts of $3184.87 to be accounted for in part from a change in the fiscal year, and in part by a change of the time of the payment of the annuity. An apparent lessened expenditure of $3, 172.02 caused by want of funds to apply $2000 to sinking fund $1500 to investment of Madison Legacy and $450 arrearage of Interest due to Library therefrom.

The estimates of the Proctor for the current year are as follows viz:

This estimate omits an appropriation to the sinking fund of

Your committee would earnestly urge the necessity and manifest propriety of enforcing the fulfilment of the previous requirements of the Board in relation to these additional items of Expenditure, and respectfully with this report recommend the following resolution. viz.

9\. Resolved that the Proctor & Bursar be directed to purchase four of the Bonds given by the University for the Randolph loan or twenty shares of State Stock, if they cannot be obtained upon reasonable terms. Also fifteen shares of State Stock as an investment of the Madison Legacy and that the arrearages of Interest due the Library thereon viz. $540 be applied to the purposes of the Library as previously ordered by this Board.

Th: J. Randolph

Wm. C. Rives.

10\. Resolved that the application of Professor Minor for permission to open a door of communication between his dining room & the adjacent Dormitory be referred to the Executive Committee.

11\. Resolved that the Selection of State Students be hereafter committed to the Faculty, under the provisions of the enactments on that subject.

12\. Resolved that the Steward be allowed $150 for washing for the State Students during the past session.

13\. Resolved that hereafter the University will not be liable for the washing for the State Students.

14\. Resolved that the price of the stone fence executed by Majr. Broadus, under agreement between him and the proctor be referred to the proctor & the Executive Committee to be ascertained.

15\. Resolved that Doct: Gessner Harrison be appointed Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year.

16\. Resolved that the commission of 2 per cent heretofore assessed on the fees of professors & on the Board paid to Hotel Keepers by Students, be remitted.

17\. Resolved that the regulation ( See Ch: 1 Sec: 2 page 18 of the last edition of the printed enactments) be so changed as that the payments of board to the Hotel Keepers shall be made at the commencement instead of the expiration of each quarter.

18\. Resolved that hereafter Students attending the school of political economics, shall pay for tickets in that school a full fee instead of the fee of $15 as provided for in the late edition of the printed enactments ( See page 51 ); unless such Student shall have taken the entire ticket in the school of moral Philosophy, in which event he shall pay for the whole as one ticket.

19\. Resolved that State Students who may attend the school of Anatomy & Surgery shall pay the usual fee for providing subjects for dissection in said school.

20\. Resolved that the annual advertisement of the University shall hereafter be made in two papers in Richmond & two in Washington only; & the advertisement respecting State Students shall be made in two papers in Richmond only.

21\. Resolved that the Salary of the Janitor shall be $150 instead of $200 as is provided in the late edition of the printed enactments (See page 25.)

22\. Resolved that the 11th paragraph in the late edition of the printed enactments 2. Sect: 1. Ch: be amended by adding the following proviso: viz:- Provided however that he shall pay to the professor the fees received for them severally immediately after they are paid and deposit their receipts with the Bursar, that he may report the amount of payments so evidenced in his annual accounts presented to the board of Visitors.

The Board then adjourned till tomorrow morning.

Tuesday June 29th 1847. The Board met pursuant to adjournment: Present as yesterday.

The following proceedings were had.

The 10th resolution in the proceedings of yesterday relative to Professor Minor's application was on motion reconsidered, when on motion it was resolved

1\. As the sense of the Board of Visitors that the appropriation of Dormitories rented by Professors to other uses than for studies, Libraries or for lodging students, who may board with such professors, is inconsistent with the interests of the University & inadmissible.

The 5th Resolution in the proceedings of yesterday relative to State Students was, on motion reconsidered, when on motion it was resolved:

2\. That when more than ten of the number of State Students authorised to be admitted into the University, shall enter the class of any professor such professor shall be entitled to receive at the rate of $25 each from the University for such excess to be paid by the proctor by warrant on the Bursar: Provided however that the whole sum to be paid by the University under this enactment should not exceed $1000; that then the said sum of $1000 shall be rateably divided amongst said professors in proportion to the number of State Students attending each.

3\. Resolved that the Faculty assign to the Professor of Modern languages the lecture room of Dr. Howard at any hours to be selected by him when Doct: Howard is not lecturing.

4\. Resolved that the Proctor & Faculty are enjoined to see that the existing regulations in relation to the Board and attendance to be furnished by the Steward and Hotel Keepers to the Students be strictly enforced.

5\. Resolved that in future the appointment of Hotel Keepers shall be for a term not exceeding three years, one to be appointed each year to be reappointed at the discretion of the appointing power. The leases of the present incumbents shall end in one, two and three years from the first of August next, to be determined among them by lot, drawn by the Faculty.

6\. Resolved, that the Steward shall furnish sleeping apartments for eight Students, & not twelve as heretofore provided.

7\. Resolved that with the assent of the Steward, the Proctor is at liberty to commute the occupancy of the Dawson Farm, for the sum of two hundred dollars per annum; and, upon such commutation being had, to lease and improve the Farm upon terms to be approved by the Executive Committee.

8\. Resolved, that the lands in the Occupancy of the former proctor being assigned to the Steward, the present salary is found inadequate, and the Proctor's Salary shall be increased at the rate of $200 per annum from the 26th of the present month.

The Board having received and taken into consideration the application of the Washington Society asking for the assignment to their use of a more convenient hall than the one they now have.

9\. Resolved that the Board regret that it is not in their power to comply with the request of the Washington Society.

Formula for weekly reports. The following formula shall be observed in the weekly class reports of the Professors of the University.

Formula for weekly reports.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA.

SCHOOL \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_,

Class report for the week ending the \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_, 18\_\_

\* Here is to be written the day of the week.

Here is to be written the initial of the day of the week.

Here, the names of students.

Here an "a" indicating the absence of those not present.

11\. It shall be duty of the Chairman to prepare and lay before the Visitors, at the commencement of every annual meeting of the Board, a consolidated report founded on the weekly class reports. The said consolidated report shall be divided into two distinct and separate parts, as follows

Part I. A concise and clear statement of the heads of the lectures, or subjects of Instruction, delivered or taught by each of the professors during the preceding course.

Part II. A statement of 1. the number of times which any professor shall have fail'd to lecture on the regular days appointed for his lecture. 2. The number of times which any professor shall have fail'd to examine his class on the days appointed for such examination. 3. The average time occupied by each professor in the delivery of his lectures. 4. The average time occupied by each professor in the examination of his classes. 5. The number of times that each professor shall have fail'd promptly to make his weekly class reports as required by the enactments. All enactments or parts of enactments found in conflict with this enactment are hereby repeal'd.

The Board then adjourned till tomorrow morning.

Wednesday June 30th 1847. The Board met pursuant to adjournment: Present as yesterday, with the exception of Messrs. Hunter and Stevenson. The following proceedings were had.

1\. Resolved that the advertisement of the vacancy in the Chair of Anatomy and Surgery be withheld until after the 15th July, and if in the interim Dr. Cabell should desire to withdraw his resignation he shall be at liberty to do so upon notification to the Rector.

2\. Resolved that the meeting of the Board of Visitors for supplying the vacancy in the Chair of Anatomy & Surgery, if the necessity for that meeting should not be superseded, shall take place on the 10th day of September next, instead of the 1st of that month, as directed by a previous resolution.

Ordered that the Board do now adjourn.

Teste