 TEI to HTML

The meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University called for Wednesday the 17th October 1849 did not assemble till Thursday the 18th when Joseph C. Cabell, John H. Cocke, Thomas J. Randolph and Andrew Stevenson appeared and a Board was organized:

The Rector presented his annual Report to the President of the Board of Directors of the Literary Fund which having been read was on motion of Mr. Stevenson approved.

Mr. Stevenson offered the following preamble and resolution which were adopted.

The Rector submitted to the Board his reasons for the present called meeting of the Visitors, growing out of the late proceedings of the Legislature in relation to this Institution, and more especially those portions making it the duty of the University to board and support as well as educate the 32 State Students:- This Board approving the call of the Rector, proceeded to consider the subject and adopt the following resolution.

1\. Resolved that this Board are still impressed with the importance & value to the best interests of the University of the several improvements adopted by the last Board and which were directed to be carried into effect; but in consequence of the late legislative enactments, and the absence of three of the Visitors, the Board deem it expedient to suspend & postpone until their next annual meeting such of the proposed measures as require aid from the funds of the University and that the Rector be requested to make a supplementary report to the President and Directors of the Literary fund setting forth the proceedings of this Board.

The Rector submitted to the Board the following letter of Wm. A. Bibb the Commissioner appointed to settle the accounts of the Proctor & Bursar.

Letter.

In obedience to a resolution of the Board of Visitors of the University of Va. I have examined the Books of Alex: Garrett, Bursar, from the 31st May 1848 to the 1st June 1849, and find all his charges supported by vouchers, except 25 cents paid for a blank book. I find two small errors in his addition amounting to 5 cents. The discrepancy between his books and those of the Proctor on the 1st June 1849, occurred by his not having paid and charged a warrant drawn by the Proctor on the 14th May in fav. of P.S. Duval for $111. This warrant he charges on the 2d June, after his Books were balanced. When this entry is brought into his account, his books will shew a balance on hand less than the balance shewn by the Proctor's books of $6.78 after the Proctor gives him credit by the 25 cents paid for the blank book. The discrepancy of $6.78, I am told happened some years past and it still exists as shewn by the statement on this sheet.

After examination the Board direct that the discrepancy in the accounts of the Bursar of $6.78 be placed to the account of profit and loss & that the Bursar be credited by it.

The Rector submitted the following communication from the Faculty.

At a meeting of the Faculty Oct: 9th 1849, a committee consisting of Professors Schele, Courtnay & Harrison was appointed to lay a plan before the Board of Visitors at their meeting on the 17th Inst: to reorganize the scheme of lectures.

At a meeting held on the 16th October, the Committee made a report to the Faculty which was adopted and ordered to be laid before the Board of Visitors.

"The duty of arranging the lectures in the different schools of the University so as to prevent any interference or serious inconvenience to the Students has become from year to year a more difficult task. This session, however, it has been found utterly impossible to make such an arrangement, owing partly to the considerable increase of the number of Students, and partly to the number of schools attended by each one of them. The Faculty have, after repeated fruitless attempts, come to the conclusion that by a radical change in the hours allotted by law alone, time can be obtained for the regular & so called extra hours which every school requires.

The present scheme having proved totally insufficient they therefore propose to reduce all the earlier lectures to one hour's time, by which room for at least one additional lecture, daily, would be gained- Besides, they do not intend to let this change affect the hour from 12 1/2 to 2 O.Clock leaving two lectures daily of 1 1/2 hour (one before & one after dinner) for those particular classes where time is either most precious or more difficult to obtain.

The Faculty convinced of the absolute necessity of making such a change, beg leave to lay before the Board of Visitors a copy of the proposed scheme accompanied by one of the present scheme, and ask most respectfully their sanction of the intended alteration.

They beg, at, the same time, once more to lay before the Board of Visitors the urgent want of additional lecture rooms-A want heretofore productive of most serious inconvenience and calculated materially to affect the usefulness of their instruction, should the present number of Students continue or increase- Only two schools, that of Natural Philosophy and Chemistry, having the exclusive use of their rooms, the five schools of Antient Languages, Modern Languages, Mathematics, Moral Philosophy and Law are compelled to content themselves with two lecture rooms only. One of which the Professor of Mathematics requires for a considerable portion of each day.

The professors of the Medical department who do not lecture to the Academic Students, and are therefore not likely to suffer inconvenience from any interference with the other professors, might be allowed to retain their present arrangement as long as more convenient to them, and does not conflict with the general scheme."

(signed) Wm. Wertenbaker Secty. of the Faculty.

On consideration of the subject the Board are not prepared to express any decided opinion upon the propriety of reorganizing the proposed scheme of lectures, but in consequence of the want of rooms for the purposes of lecturing, and the representation of the Faculty, the Board deem it expedient to consent to the scheme for the present session and until further order can be taken upon the subject.

Resolved that the Proctor make the proper arrangements and accommodations in the Rotunda for the exercises of the public day, under the direction of the Executive Committee.

The Board then adjourned sine die.

In obedience to a resolution of the Board of Visitors of the University of Va. I have examined the Books of Alex: Garrett, Bursar, from the 31st May 1848 to the 1st June 1849, and find all his charges supported by vouchers, except 25 cents paid for a blank book. I find two small errors in his addition amounting to 5 cents. The discrepancy between his books and those of the Proctor on the 1st June 1849, occurred by his not having paid and charged a warrant drawn by the Proctor on the 14th May in fav. of P.S. Duval for $111. This warrant he charges on the 2d June, after his Books were balanced. When this entry is brought into his account, his books will shew a balance on hand less than the balance shewn by the Proctor's books of $6.78 after the Proctor gives him credit by the 25 cents paid for the blank book. The discrepancy of $6.78, I am told happened some years past and it still exists as shewn by the statement on this sheet.

In obedience to a resolution of the Board of Visitors of the University of Va. I have examined the Books of Alex: Garrett, Bursar, from the 31st May 1848 to the 1st June 1849, and find all his charges supported by vouchers, except 25 cents paid for a blank book. I find two small errors in his addition amounting to 5 cents. The discrepancy between his books and those of the Proctor on the 1st June 1849, occurred by his not having paid and charged a warrant drawn by the Proctor on the 14th May in fav. of P.S. Duval for $111. This warrant he charges on the 2d June, after his Books were balanced. When this entry is brought into his account, his books will shew a balance on hand less than the balance shewn by the Proctor's books of $6.78 after the Proctor gives him credit by the 25 cents paid for the blank book. The discrepancy of $6.78, I am told happened some years past and it still exists as shewn by the statement on this sheet.