 TEI to HTML

Appropriations
--------------

Net amount for appropriation

$3,778.65

$110.63

Deficiency called for by Prof. Page

1600.00

Towards Prof. Page's Salary

320.00

Towards Prof. Mallet's Salary

180.00

Towards Prof. Thornton's Salary

75.00

Publication

1000.00

Experimental Farm

50.00

Wood to burn tiles & Erect Kiln

150.00

Barn

100.00

To utilize sewage

$3583.63

3585.63

Reserved to meet contingencies

$ 193.02

1\. Salaries of Profs

14 @

$3000

$42,000

2\. Adj. Profs

2 @

$2000

4,000

3\. Demonstrator of Anatomy

800

800

4\. Demonstrator of Officers - Chairman Proctor $2000 Librarian $700 Assistant Librarian $400 Secy Board $100 Com. of Accounts $200. Janitor $480

500

$4,380

Advertising

600

Catalogue

500

Printing

140

Repairs & Improvements (to be itemized as far as practicable by Proctor & S.G.& B.)

3,000

Labor

1,200

Contingent Acct. (to be itemized as far practicable by P. & S.G. & B.)

1,250

Interest on Debt

7,500

Sinking Fund (invest. to be stated by Proctor)

1,000

Library

300

Fuel

500

Gas

500

Insurance (including Nat. His. Building)

650

Diplomas

350

Apparatus (Chem. $150. Nat. Phil. 150. Eng. $50

350

Commutation of rents

900

Fitting up house for Prof. Dunnington (not to exceed)

150

Addition to Mess Hall (not to exceed)

125

Special Miller Approp. Deficiency

110.63

Publication

75

Farm

1,000

Wood to burn tiles

50

Barn

150

To utilize Sewage

100

Special appropriation for Ass. Prof. Smith

200

Total

$71,880.63

At the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Va. held this 24th day of June 1878. Present- Messrs Bocock, Gilmore, Hart, Marye, Randolph & Whitehead.

In the absence of the Rector, on motion of Dr. Randolph Mr. Bocock was chosen Rector pro.tem. who thereupon called the Board to order.

On motion the Secretary was instructed to wait upon the Chairman of the Faculty and inform him that the Board is in session and request him to present before the Board such matters as he may have for their consideration, which was done by the Secretary and Prof. Harrison, Chairman of the Faculty appeared before the Board and submitted with his annual communication the following reports:

1\. Faculty Report.

2\. Report of the Proctor & Superintendent.

3\. Report of the Commr of Accounts.

4\. Proctor's Report of Agrl Dept. for the Miller Board

5\. Letter of Genl F. H. Smith of the Miller Institute.

6\. Report of the Infirmary Board.

7\. Report of the Librarian.

8\. Report on Apparatus in School of Genl and App. Chemistry.

9\. Letter of application of C. C. Holden.

10\. Application of Adj. Prof. F. P. Dunnington for quarters.

11\. Professors Reports of Classwork.

12\. Application of the Proctor for leave of absence.

13\. Application for additional room for Y. Mens Christian Assoc. Reading Room.

Also a letter from the Rector stating that he was prevented by sickness from attending the meeting of the Board at this time.

On motion, resolved that the application of G. Peyton, Esqr. Proctor & Superintendent for leave of absence be referred to Messrs Marye and Gilmore as a Committee for report thereon.

Ordered, That, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty, Messrs Floyd, Hughes and H. E. Harris, be allowed special examinations in German & Greek respectively at the beginning of the next session.

Ordered, that those points of the Report of the Faculty which relate to salaries and the general financial estimates for the Session 1878-9 be referred to the Finance Committee. That the application for Reading Room for Y. M. C. Association, and other requests involving any change in the existing arrangements of Rooms &c be referred to the Committee on grounds & buildings.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 8 A.M.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday with the addition of Mr. Conrad who arrived this morning.

On motion the following resolution was adopted: The Board of Visitors having maturely considered the recommendation of the Faculty for the appointment of a Committee of their body, with whom the Board may confer in certain cases, doth Resolve

That this Board deems it very desirable that it should have an opportunity to obtain information and suggestions, from the Faculty, without delay, on important recommendations contained in their reports, and on any other subjects of difficulty that may come before it, and doth therefore declare, that on the notification of this Board, that such information and suggestions are desired, the Faculty may be heard through a Committee of their own selection, unless in any case a different mode may be deemed advisable.

On motion, Resolved, that a Committee of three be appointed to consider and report on the following subjects.

1\. How much is given or surrendered to each student messing by the University- Whether or not it is expedient to return to the plan formerly followed of assigning to each Boarding House certain dormitories for the year; the Mess being treated as a Boarding House.

3\. Whether the Board paid by each student should not be reduced and how much?

Messrs Randolph, Whitehead and Hart were appointed Committee under the foregoing resolution.

Mr. Stuart, the Rector, appeared and assumed his position in the Board.

The following Reports &c were received through the Chairman of the Faculty, viz-

Annl Report of the School of Anl. & Agl Chemistry.

Inventory of apparatus &c in charge of Mr. Dunnington Adj. Prof. of Anl & Agl Chemistry.

Application of Mrs. S. E. Massie, widow of Henry Massie decd for the Hotel lately kept by her husband.

Class Reports of such of the Schools as were not submitted on yesterday all of which were referred to the appropriate Committees.

The Committee on the Conduct of Schools submitted the following report, which upon being read and considered on motion was approved and adopted.

Gentlemen- Your Committee on the "Conduct of the Schools" beg leave to submit the following report.

1\. To express their gratification at the full report furnished by each professor.

2\. To congratulate the Board of Visitors and the Faculty on the orderly conduct and studious habits of the past session and the number & high grade of graduates reported.

3\. The mode of applying discipline to students absent from class or neglecting class work is slow and cumbrous; and inefficient because ending in leave to withdraw from College or expulsion in incorrigible cases the punishment would not be wisely inflicted where the fault was in one school only. We recommend therefore that the Professor in whose class such neglect has occurred should be empowered on consultation with the Chairman, who should also decide whether to bring the special case before the Faculty or not, and with his consent to drop the offender from the Roll of his class. The student having the right to appeal from the Professor and Chairman to the Faculty.

4\. The committee is fully aware of the numerous difficulties surrounding the subject of the length of examinations. In written examinations the tendency is always too great length, it is to be feared in some instances that they degenerate into physical rather than mental tests.

Your Committee therefore urge upon Professors the importance of making every effort to make their examinations as short as is consistent with a fair and full test of the candidates knowledge.

5\. Your Committee have been much impressed with the importance of the establishment of a School of English in the Institution as urged by three of the Professors. We quote the following extracts— Prof. Price says "If the authorities of the University could so act by establishing a professorship of the English language here, as to encourage and require the study of the English both at the University itself and in the Schools that feed the University, immense impulse would be given to the successful study of the Greek, to all other philological studies of the University and to the general culture of our undergraduates and graduates. The young men in the great majority of cases, come up to us so grossly ignorant of their own language as to be wantonly unfit to learn the other languages that they try to study", Prof. Schele in speaking of the state of preparation in his class as compared with previous years says—"Inferior in the whole, an inferiority especially perceptible in the want of a thorough English education". This subject is beginning to much agitate the educational world and the necessity of a more careful and scientific study of the English language both with regard to its effective use and with respect to its relations to other studies is generally recognized. In many other institutions chairs of the English language have been established and courses of instruction are now offered their students much superior to anything the University now offers. We are not willing that the University of Va. shall be behind in this matter and we greatly lament that our financial condition seems to render the immediate erection of such a Chair perilous if not impossible.

6\. The Professor of Modern languages requests than an additional hour should be given time for his senior classes of French and German each week. The Catalogue shows only two hours during the week assigned him for Senior French; if practicable we would suggest to the Faculty that an additional hour should be assigned Prof. Schele for his Senior French Class. The Senior German Class having three hours per week we fear additional time could not be assigned.

We regret to be obliged to disapprove of the Professor's request to be allowed to decline to form a class in any one of the Modern Languages when there is not at least three students in that class as also the request that students be prohibited from studying more than two modern languages in one session. While we may regret the labor imposed on the Professor we do not think it right that the Institution should fail to afford instruction in any study embraced in her recognized schools that a student may select.

7\. The Professor of Natural Philosophy urgently requests an appropriation in addition to his annual appropriation to enable him to purchase certain articles necessary for his School. He states that his school has no good Air Pump, nor Spectroscope, nor modern electroscope of any kind nor a gramme machine.

Thes\[e\] articles seem to us of such prime importance that notwithstanding the urgent need of the greatest economy we recommand if possible n appropriation of two hundred dollars for that purpose.

8\. Your Committee hope that at their next meeting the Faculty will be ready to report a plan for modifying the Degrees to improve the present requirements of the Institution on that subject. In our opinion it is a matter of great importance to the institution.

9\. Your Committee ask that the Board of Visitors will request the Faculty to prepare a printed form for their reports as being more convenient for them and also for the Committee.

Your Committee asks leave to make a special report on the subject of the School of applied Mathematics & Anal. Chem. They have not as yet such information as they may obtain by consultation with the Professor.

For the same reason we ask leave to be allowed to make a similar report on the School of Analytical and Agricultural Chemistry.

The Rector laid before the Board the letter of Prof. H. A. Ward, addressed to him and conveying the information of the proposed donation by the Brook's heirs of the sum of $4000 to the Botanical Department of the Brooks Museum of Natural History.

On motion the same was referred to the Finance Committee.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 9 A.M.

Jas D. Jones, Secretary

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. The Rector in the Chair. Present the same members as on yesterday.

The Committee to whom was referred the application of the Proctor for leave of absence reported the following resolution which on motion was adopted: viz

Resolved- That the Board accede to the request of the Proctor that he may be absent from the University from about the 10th of July until the first week in September, it being understood that the Proctor will see to it that all matters needing his attention during that period shall be cared for by a competent person.

The Chairman of the Faculty presented to the Board the Applications respectively of Messrs Henry E. Harris and T. W. Harrison, (with his remarks appended to each), to be allowed to stand special examinations which being read and considered-on motion- Ordered- That the applications of T. W. Harrison and Henry E. Harnis for leave to stand re-examinations on certain subjects, be recommitted to the Faculty with the recommendation that the applications be granted, if in the opinion of the Faculty the circumstances of each case make it proper and the interests of the University will not suffer thereby.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 9 A.M.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday.

Ordered- That the scheme proposed by the Miller Board for the distribution of the sum of $3585.63 appropriated by that Board for the Miller Fund of the University be adopted by this Board & that this resolution be communicated to the Miller Board.

The scheme referred to in the foregoing resolution is as follows:

The joint Committee of this and the Miller Board upon the present condition of the Agricultural School having been submitted and read- on motion

Ordered- That the report of the joint Committee of Messrs Randolph & McBryde be laid over until the next meeting of the Board for consideration.

Ordered- That the Rector be requested to apply to the General Assembly at its next session for appropriate legislation, confirming and ratifying the deed of trust heretofore executed by this Board on the personal property of the University to secure the bonds for $10,000 delivered to the Miller Board.

Resolved- That section 3 of the Report of the Committee on the Conduct of Schools, empowering a Professor under certain circumstances, in concert with the Chairman of the Faculty to drop the name of a student from his Class Book, be hereby suspended from operation and that the whole subject be referred to the Faculty with the request that they present their views on it to this Board at its next annual meeting.

A letter was received from Mr. Goode stating that he was prevented from attending the present meeting of the Board by engagements in Court.

Whereas this Board desires to preserve in permanent form some record of the public opening of the Brooks Museum both in grateful appreciation of the munificence of Mr. Brooks, and to give enduring form to the addresses delivered on the occasion-

Therefore Resolved-

1\. That we hereby request of Hon. A. H. H. Stuart and Dr. James C. Southall copies of the addresses delivered by them this day.

2\. That the Executive Committee cause to be printed 1000 copies of said addresses with such other matter as they may judge suitable, of which 200 copies shall be bound.

3\. That 10 copies of said publication as bound shall be deposited in the University Library, and the others disposed of as the Executive Committee may deem best.

4\. That the Executive Committee be authorized to draw on the Proctor for the cost of publication.

5\. That Mr. Hart be requested to ask of Dr. Southall a copy of his address.

The Com. on Grounds & Buildings submitted their report which upon being read and considered on motion was received approved & adopted, and is as follows.

To the Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia.

The Committee on Grounds & Buildings beg to report that they have made a careful examination of both and are gratified to be able to state that there is a manifest improvement in the appearance of both since your last annual meeting.

They have considered the application of Prof. Dunnington & recommend that the pavilion next to the old boarding house be assigned to him as he requests. They have also considered the application of Prof. Davis asking for a change in the sewer & recommend that said sewer be removed from the lands of Prof. Davis & be constructed through the grounds of the University west so as to connect with the sewer running from the western lawn. Said change can be made at an estimated cost not exceeding two hundred dollars. Your Committee have also considered the application of Mrs. Massie & recommend her appointment as boarding house keeper. They have also considered the application of the Young Mens Christian Association & beg to recommend that the present lecture room of Prof. Schele be assigned to said association upon the same terms as the rooms now occupied by the Washington & Jefferson Societies, are assigned to them. They recommend that the Old Chemical Lecture Room be assigned to Prof. Schele for a lecture room.

Your Committee recommend that the lecture room in the Natural History building be assigned to Prof. Page & that the lecture room now occupied by Prof. Page be assigned to Prof. Smith for his uses.

Your Committee recommend that the Proctor be ordered to select two dormitories and have a door made in the partition between them so that said dormitories can be used as rooms for the Secretary of this Board, the Secretary of the Faculty and the Secretary of the Miller Board- and that said rooms hen selected be assigned to said officers for that purpose. They recommend that the manner of using the appropriation of $100 made by the Miller Board for utilizing sewage be referred to the Health Committee of the Faculty.

The Committee on the Conduct of Schools submitted the following supplementary report, which upon being read and considered on motion was received, approved & adopted and reads as follows:

The Committee to which was referred the Reports from the several schools submit the following supplementary report and recommendations-

We find that some modifications of the courses of Study and requisitions for Degrees in the School of Applied Mathematics, are made in the Report of Adjunct Professor Thornton with the approbation of Prof. Venable. We have also considered the question whether, under all the circumstances, the Salary of Prof. Thornton ought not to be reduced, and that of Adjunct Prof. Dunnington increased. And further whether it is expedient to continue the appointment of a Drawing Master in the School of Applied Mathematics, we present our conclusions in the following recommendations.

1\. That the Scheme presented by Adjunct Prof. Thornton for Courses of Study and Requisitions for Degrees in the School of Applied Mathematics is hereby ordered as follows:

Courses of Study:

1\. Civil Engineering

Junior - Engineering Geodesy: Theory of Parallel Projections; Construction and Setting out of Roads and Railways.

Senior - Theory of Central Projections; Resistance of Materials and Stability of Constructions; Hydraulics

2\. Mining Engineering

Junior: Theory of Underground Surveying and Setting out Underground works; Theory of Parallel Projections.

Senior:- Theoretical and Constructive Mechanism; Mechanics of Machines; Theory of Prime Movers; Construction and Use of Mining Machinery.

Requisitions for Degrees

1\. Degree of Civil Engineer: Graduation in Schools of N. P., Ch. or Ind. Ch., proficiency in M. & G. and in Maths. Satisfactory attainments in a prescribed course on Infinitessimal Calculus, Graduation in the School of Ap. Math. Course of Civil Engineering.

2\. Degree of Mining Engineer: Graduation in schools of Ch. & Ind. Ch., An. Ch., Proficiency in Physics in Min. & Geol. and in Math., Satisfactory attainments in a prescribed course on Infinitesimal Calculus, Graduation in School of Ap. Math. Course of Mining Engineering.

2\. That the services of a Drawing Master be dispensed with in the School of Applied Math. and that the Professor of that School do the work heretofore done by the Drawing Master.

3\. That the Salary of Adjunct Professor Thornton, for the ensuing session shall be two thousand dollars ($2000) with provision for quarters as heretofore.

4.That the Salary of Adjunct Professor Dunnington in the School of Chemistry for the next session shall be two thousand dollars ($2000) with provision for quarters as recommended by the Com. of Grounds & Buildings.

5\. That the Secretary address to Mr. Santos, the Teacher of Drawing, a letter imforming him of this action of the Board so far as it concerns him, with the assurance that it is dictated only by financial reasons.

6\. That Prof. Venable be authorized to employ, without expense to the University, an assistant in the School of Mathematics, to be confirmed by the Executive Committee.

W. C. N. Randolph

Paul Whitehead

John Hart

Whereas it is the opinion of some of the members of this Board that the interests of the University might be promoted by making a radical change in the matter of Boarding Houses for Students so as to leave Boarding House Keepers, either within or without the University, free to fix their own rates, and Students free to select their Boarding places, only requiring them to occupy the Dormitories of the University.

And whereas there is doubt the expediency of such change at present.

Resolved, that the Faculty be requested to consider carefully this whole question and report their views to this Board at its next annual meeting.

The following report was submitted by the Committee to which the subjects therein mentioned were referred, which upon being read & considered on motion the same was received, approved & adopted, and is as follows:

The Committee instructed to report on the subjects indicated below, beg leave to report as follows:

The amount surrendered to each member of the mess clubs by the University is the amount paid by each hotel keeper and not paid by the student in the mess - seven dollars and fifty cents The proportion of rent of the Mess Hall (not paid to the institution) three dollars, in all ten dollars and fifty-cents

They recommended the adoption of the following

1 That the chairman of the faculty and the Proctor shall assign the dormitories in the University of each hotel and the mess club and equal number in such way seem to them most equitable and convenient provided however that should the mess not need all the rooms assigned, the vacant rooms shall be divided between the hotels

2 That a student occupying a room assigned to one of the hotels shall board at that hotel as long as he occupies said room

3 That at the expiration of the first or second quarter (January 1st and April 1st) any student may change from one hotel to the other or from either to the mess club or from the mess club to either if he so desires

4 The hotel keeper and the manager of the mess shall promptly report to the Chairman of the Faculty any disorderly conduct on the part of the boarders or members of the mess, and the failures to make such reports may be punished by a fine of not more than five dollars to be assessed by the Chairman of the Faculty

That hereafter hotelkeepers shall not be required to furnish or have washed towels for their boarders

They think that the board at the University is too high and recommend that it be fixed at Eighteen Dollars per month instead of twenty dollars.

W. C. N. Randolph

Paul Whitehead

John Hart

On motion the following was adopted:

The Resolution of the Faculty allowing special examinations to T. W. Harrison of Leesburg, Va., Henry E. Harris of Albemarle Co. and George S. Thomas of Richmond, who failed in the final examinations on German in the first case and in the other two on History was reviewed and considered by the Board and on motion-

Ordered- That the resolution be approved and adopted, and the said examinations be allowed and the privilege be granted the applicants without the usual matriculation fees.

The Finance Committee submitted the following report which on being read and considered on motion was approved & adopted-

To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

Your Committee to whom was referred for consideration and report so much of the Report of the Faculty as relates to the Finances of the University respectfully report-

That the course pursued by the Board with regard to many of the subjects that have heretofore engaged the attention of this Committee has proven so far successful as to relieve us from further consideration of them at this time.

The debt due to the Va. Mil. Institute is again brought to our attention by a letter from the Superintendent, Genl Smith, urging with fervent importunity its immediate payment. This matter which has been the subject of frequent consideration by the Board and of active correspondence with Genl Smith, was made a conspicuous feature in the Annual Report made by the Visitors through the Rector to the last General Assembly, and was then referred to that body for its action. It is of interest however to know that of the principal debt of $20,000 $4000 has been funded or converted into the new 8% bonds, and a reasonable hope is entertained that the residuum of $16000 will be taken up with the proceeds of sale of other of the 8% bonds to be taken by the Miller Board with funds to be paid them on amount of certain Va. Central R. R. Bonds held by that Board and soon to be paid. The only course your Committee can now recommend is the communication of this hope to Genl Smith with the renewed assurance of our hearty desire to discharge the debt.

As to the application of Mr. Charles C. Holden to have refunded to him so much of the fee paid by him for tuition in Mathematics as is not due to the University. Your Committee in view of the circumstances stated by the Chairman of the Faculty recommend that the application be granted.

Your Committee recommend that the following appropriations be made for the fiscal year ending the 1st of June 1879.

It will be observed that we have exceeded the Faculty Estimate by some two hundred dollars and this in the face of the fact that we have added only one additional appropriation of two hundred dollars, viz. the special approp. to the School of Nat. Philosophy to their appropriation and had not increased their specific appropriations on the contrary have reduced the appropriations of the two schools of Applied Math. & Analyt. & Agricul. Chem. by a net reduction of $900: The deficit notwithstanding this reduction is due to the increased specific appropriations of the Miller Trustees.

To enlarge the Pavillion occupied by Prof. Minor- not to exceed $2000. It is recommended that the Proctor be authorized to insure the University property for a term of five years. Provided that the insurance can be effected on the terms of payment in cash of a sum equal in amount to the aggregate of three annual premiums, and in Companies of unquestionable solvency and soundness.

It is recommended that the sum of $35.00 be appropriated for the payment of clerk hire for the Committee on the codification of the bye laws. That the sum of $200 be appropriated for the purchase of additional apparatus for the School of Nat. Philosophy.

That a sum be appropriated sufficient for the publication of the addresses delivered by Dr. J. C. Southall and Hon. A. H. H. Stuart at the dedication of the Brooks Museum.

That a sum not exceeding $2000 be appropriated for the improvement of the Pavilion occupied by Prof. Minor.

Holmes Conrad.

On motion

Resolved, that the Faculty be requested to report at our next meeting whether or not it is best to charge in lieu of the present charges for matriculation, Library, diplomas infirmary fees and room rent the sum of sixty dollars as a matriculation fee. This sum to be paid by all students except students residing with their parents or guardians who shall pay a matriculation fee of forty dollars in lieu of such fees.

Dr. James F. Harrison was reellected Chairman of the Faculty for the sensuing year.

The following resolutions were adopted:

The Rector laid before the Board the letter addressed to him by Prof. Henry A. Ward informing the Rector that Rev. Lemuel Brooks, Mr. Gary Brooks and Royal C. Knopp, relatives of the late Lewis Brooks had authorized Mr. Ward to state that they had determined to donate to the University a complete Botanical Cabinet to be placed in the Lewis Brooks Museum, and that Mr. Ward, at their request, had agreed to undertake the work of preparing and placing the Cabinet in the Museum. Whereupon, it was resolved,

1st That the Board, in behalf of the University accept, with grateful sensibility, this generous offer; and hereby record their sense of the enlightened liberality displayed by the donors in their praiseworthy purposes to complete the equipment of the splendid Museum founded by their honored Kinsman.

2d That the Secretary of the Board transmit four copies of this minute to Prof. Ward with the request that he deliver a copy to each of these three gentlemen.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock.

Jas. D. Jones, Secretary

Alex. H. H. Stuart Rector

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday, with the exception of Mr. Gilmore, absent.

The Com. on Apparatus submitted the following report which upon being read and considered, on motion was approved and adopted, and is as follows.

The Committee on Apparatus beg leave to report that they have made the usual inspection, which has been necessarily brief. They regret the brevity and superficial nature of their examination less than they otherwise would, because of the fact that the two Professors in charge (Profs. Mallet & Smith) are men who take every possible precaution for the preservation of the property of the University in their hands.

Your Committee are pleased to report a few additions to the apparatus in the School of Natural Philosophy, specially a valuable Reflecting Telescope, with silvered glass Speculum-which is immensely more useful and valuable than the old and very inferior instruments which were the only telescopes in our possession.

The Finance Committee having already reported a recommendation that a special appropriation in addition to the Customary annual appropriation be made for the purchase of some very necessary articles in the School of Nat. Phy. Your Committee deem it needless to say more of those articles named in the report of Prof. Smith of the Conduct of the School. Everything in the departments of both Chemistry and Natural Philosophy is arranged with the greatest system and preserved with scrupulous neatness and care.

On motion, resolved, That the sum of one hundred dollars be appropriated from the funds of the University to aid the Y.M.C.Asso. in fitting up their new Hall provided the income of the Institution should exceed the amount previously appropriated.

The Report of the Library Com. was presented and ordered to be filed.

On motion, Resolved, that the Action of the Executive Committee in regard to the temporary management of the Brooks Natl History Museum is hereby sanctioned and it is ordered that it shall continue for the ensuing year.

On motion the Executive Committee as constituted for the past year was continued for the ensuing year.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet on the Monday before the last Thursday next preceding the 4th of July next.

At the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Va. held this 24th day of June 1878. Present- Messrs Bocock, Gilmore, Hart, Marye, Randolph & Whitehead.

In the absence of the Rector, on motion of Dr. Randolph Mr. Bocock was chosen Rector pro.tem. who thereupon called the Board to order.

On motion the Secretary was instructed to wait upon the Chairman of the Faculty and inform him that the Board is in session and request him to present before the Board such matters as he may have for their consideration, which was done by the Secretary and Prof. Harrison, Chairman of the Faculty appeared before the Board and submitted with his annual communication the following reports:

1\. Faculty Report.

2\. Report of the Proctor & Superintendent.

3\. Report of the Commr of Accounts.

4\. Proctor's Report of Agrl Dept. for the Miller Board

5\. Letter of Genl F. H. Smith of the Miller Institute.

6\. Report of the Infirmary Board.

7\. Report of the Librarian.

8\. Report on Apparatus in School of Genl and App. Chemistry.

9\. Letter of application of C. C. Holden.

10\. Application of Adj. Prof. F. P. Dunnington for quarters.

11\. Professors Reports of Classwork.

12\. Application of the Proctor for leave of absence.

13\. Application for additional room for Y. Mens Christian Assoc. Reading Room.

Also a letter from the Rector stating that he was prevented by sickness from attending the meeting of the Board at this time.

On motion, resolved that the application of G. Peyton, Esqr. Proctor & Superintendent for leave of absence be referred to Messrs Marye and Gilmore as a Committee for report thereon.

Ordered, That, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty, Messrs Floyd, Hughes and H. E. Harris, be allowed special examinations in German & Greek respectively at the beginning of the next session.

Ordered, that those points of the Report of the Faculty which relate to salaries and the general financial estimates for the Session 1878-9 be referred to the Finance Committee. That the application for Reading Room for Y. M. C. Association, and other requests involving any change in the existing arrangements of Rooms &c be referred to the Committee on grounds & buildings.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 8 A.M.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday with the addition of Mr. Conrad who arrived this morning.

On motion the following resolution was adopted: The Board of Visitors having maturely considered the recommendation of the Faculty for the appointment of a Committee of their body, with whom the Board may confer in certain cases, doth Resolve

That this Board deems it very desirable that it should have an opportunity to obtain information and suggestions, from the Faculty, without delay, on important recommendations contained in their reports, and on any other subjects of difficulty that may come before it, and doth therefore declare, that on the notification of this Board, that such information and suggestions are desired, the Faculty may be heard through a Committee of their own selection, unless in any case a different mode may be deemed advisable.

On motion, Resolved, that a Committee of three be appointed to consider and report on the following subjects.

1\. How much is given or surrendered to each student messing by the University- Whether or not it is expedient to return to the plan formerly followed of assigning to each Boarding House certain dormitories for the year; the Mess being treated as a Boarding House.

3\. Whether the Board paid by each student should not be reduced and how much?

Messrs Randolph, Whitehead and Hart were appointed Committee under the foregoing resolution.

Mr. Stuart, the Rector, appeared and assumed his position in the Board.

The following Reports &c were received through the Chairman of the Faculty, viz-

Annl Report of the School of Anl. & Agl Chemistry.

Inventory of apparatus &c in charge of Mr. Dunnington Adj. Prof. of Anl & Agl Chemistry.

Application of Mrs. S. E. Massie, widow of Henry Massie decd for the Hotel lately kept by her husband.

Class Reports of such of the Schools as were not submitted on yesterday all of which were referred to the appropriate Committees.

The Committee on the Conduct of Schools submitted the following report, which upon being read and considered on motion was approved and adopted.

Gentlemen- Your Committee on the "Conduct of the Schools" beg leave to submit the following report.

1\. To express their gratification at the full report furnished by each professor.

2\. To congratulate the Board of Visitors and the Faculty on the orderly conduct and studious habits of the past session and the number & high grade of graduates reported.

3\. The mode of applying discipline to students absent from class or neglecting class work is slow and cumbrous; and inefficient because ending in leave to withdraw from College or expulsion in incorrigible cases the punishment would not be wisely inflicted where the fault was in one school only. We recommend therefore that the Professor in whose class such neglect has occurred should be empowered on consultation with the Chairman, who should also decide whether to bring the special case before the Faculty or not, and with his consent to drop the offender from the Roll of his class. The student having the right to appeal from the Professor and Chairman to the Faculty.

4\. The committee is fully aware of the numerous difficulties surrounding the subject of the length of examinations. In written examinations the tendency is always too great length, it is to be feared in some instances that they degenerate into physical rather than mental tests.

Your Committee therefore urge upon Professors the importance of making every effort to make their examinations as short as is consistent with a fair and full test of the candidates knowledge.

5\. Your Committee have been much impressed with the importance of the establishment of a School of English in the Institution as urged by three of the Professors. We quote the following extracts— Prof. Price says "If the authorities of the University could so act by establishing a professorship of the English language here, as to encourage and require the study of the English both at the University itself and in the Schools that feed the University, immense impulse would be given to the successful study of the Greek, to all other philological studies of the University and to the general culture of our undergraduates and graduates. The young men in the great majority of cases, come up to us so grossly ignorant of their own language as to be wantonly unfit to learn the other languages that they try to study", Prof. Schele in speaking of the state of preparation in his class as compared with previous years says—"Inferior in the whole, an inferiority especially perceptible in the want of a thorough English education". This subject is beginning to much agitate the educational world and the necessity of a more careful and scientific study of the English language both with regard to its effective use and with respect to its relations to other studies is generally recognized. In many other institutions chairs of the English language have been established and courses of instruction are now offered their students much superior to anything the University now offers. We are not willing that the University of Va. shall be behind in this matter and we greatly lament that our financial condition seems to render the immediate erection of such a Chair perilous if not impossible.

6\. The Professor of Modern languages requests than an additional hour should be given time for his senior classes of French and German each week. The Catalogue shows only two hours during the week assigned him for Senior French; if practicable we would suggest to the Faculty that an additional hour should be assigned Prof. Schele for his Senior French Class. The Senior German Class having three hours per week we fear additional time could not be assigned.

We regret to be obliged to disapprove of the Professor's request to be allowed to decline to form a class in any one of the Modern Languages when there is not at least three students in that class as also the request that students be prohibited from studying more than two modern languages in one session. While we may regret the labor imposed on the Professor we do not think it right that the Institution should fail to afford instruction in any study embraced in her recognized schools that a student may select.

7\. The Professor of Natural Philosophy urgently requests an appropriation in addition to his annual appropriation to enable him to purchase certain articles necessary for his School. He states that his school has no good Air Pump, nor Spectroscope, nor modern electroscope of any kind nor a gramme machine.

Thes\[e\] articles seem to us of such prime importance that notwithstanding the urgent need of the greatest economy we recommand if possible n appropriation of two hundred dollars for that purpose.

8\. Your Committee hope that at their next meeting the Faculty will be ready to report a plan for modifying the Degrees to improve the present requirements of the Institution on that subject. In our opinion it is a matter of great importance to the institution.

9\. Your Committee ask that the Board of Visitors will request the Faculty to prepare a printed form for their reports as being more convenient for them and also for the Committee.

Your Committee asks leave to make a special report on the subject of the School of applied Mathematics & Anal. Chem. They have not as yet such information as they may obtain by consultation with the Professor.

For the same reason we ask leave to be allowed to make a similar report on the School of Analytical and Agricultural Chemistry.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. The Rector in the Chair. Present the same members as on yesterday.

The Committee to whom was referred the application of the Proctor for leave of absence reported the following resolution which on motion was adopted: viz

Resolved- That the Board accede to the request of the Proctor that he may be absent from the University from about the 10th of July until the first week in September, it being understood that the Proctor will see to it that all matters needing his attention during that period shall be cared for by a competent person.

The Chairman of the Faculty presented to the Board the Applications respectively of Messrs Henry E. Harris and T. W. Harrison, (with his remarks appended to each), to be allowed to stand special examinations which being read and considered-on motion- Ordered- That the applications of T. W. Harrison and Henry E. Harnis for leave to stand re-examinations on certain subjects, be recommitted to the Faculty with the recommendation that the applications be granted, if in the opinion of the Faculty the circumstances of each case make it proper and the interests of the University will not suffer thereby.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 9 A.M.

Net amount for appropriation

$3,778.65

$110.63

Deficiency called for by Prof. Page

1600.00

Towards Prof. Page's Salary

320.00

Towards Prof. Mallet's Salary

180.00

Towards Prof. Thornton's Salary

75.00

Publication

1000.00

Experimental Farm

50.00

Wood to burn tiles & Erect Kiln

150.00

Barn

100.00

To utilize sewage

$3583.63

3585.63

Reserved to meet contingencies

$ 193.02

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday.

Ordered- That the scheme proposed by the Miller Board for the distribution of the sum of $3585.63 appropriated by that Board for the Miller Fund of the University be adopted by this Board & that this resolution be communicated to the Miller Board.

The scheme referred to in the foregoing resolution is as follows:

The joint Committee of this and the Miller Board upon the present condition of the Agricultural School having been submitted and read- on motion

Ordered- That the report of the joint Committee of Messrs Randolph & McBryde be laid over until the next meeting of the Board for consideration.

Ordered- That the Rector be requested to apply to the General Assembly at its next session for appropriate legislation, confirming and ratifying the deed of trust heretofore executed by this Board on the personal property of the University to secure the bonds for $10,000 delivered to the Miller Board.

Resolved- That section 3 of the Report of the Committee on the Conduct of Schools, empowering a Professor under certain circumstances, in concert with the Chairman of the Faculty to drop the name of a student from his Class Book, be hereby suspended from operation and that the whole subject be referred to the Faculty with the request that they present their views on it to this Board at its next annual meeting.

A letter was received from Mr. Goode stating that he was prevented from attending the present meeting of the Board by engagements in Court.

Whereas this Board desires to preserve in permanent form some record of the public opening of the Brooks Museum both in grateful appreciation of the munificence of Mr. Brooks, and to give enduring form to the addresses delivered on the occasion-

Therefore Resolved-

1\. That we hereby request of Hon. A. H. H. Stuart and Dr. James C. Southall copies of the addresses delivered by them this day.

2\. That the Executive Committee cause to be printed 1000 copies of said addresses with such other matter as they may judge suitable, of which 200 copies shall be bound.

3\. That 10 copies of said publication as bound shall be deposited in the University Library, and the others disposed of as the Executive Committee may deem best.

4\. That the Executive Committee be authorized to draw on the Proctor for the cost of publication.

5\. That Mr. Hart be requested to ask of Dr. Southall a copy of his address.

The Com. on Grounds & Buildings submitted their report which upon being read and considered on motion was received approved & adopted, and is as follows.

To the Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia.

The Committee on Grounds & Buildings beg to report that they have made a careful examination of both and are gratified to be able to state that there is a manifest improvement in the appearance of both since your last annual meeting.

They have considered the application of Prof. Dunnington & recommend that the pavilion next to the old boarding house be assigned to him as he requests. They have also considered the application of Prof. Davis asking for a change in the sewer & recommend that said sewer be removed from the lands of Prof. Davis & be constructed through the grounds of the University west so as to connect with the sewer running from the western lawn. Said change can be made at an estimated cost not exceeding two hundred dollars. Your Committee have also considered the application of Mrs. Massie & recommend her appointment as boarding house keeper. They have also considered the application of the Young Mens Christian Association & beg to recommend that the present lecture room of Prof. Schele be assigned to said association upon the same terms as the rooms now occupied by the Washington & Jefferson Societies, are assigned to them. They recommend that the Old Chemical Lecture Room be assigned to Prof. Schele for a lecture room.

Your Committee recommend that the lecture room in the Natural History building be assigned to Prof. Page & that the lecture room now occupied by Prof. Page be assigned to Prof. Smith for his uses.

Your Committee recommend that the Proctor be ordered to select two dormitories and have a door made in the partition between them so that said dormitories can be used as rooms for the Secretary of this Board, the Secretary of the Faculty and the Secretary of the Miller Board- and that said rooms hen selected be assigned to said officers for that purpose. They recommend that the manner of using the appropriation of $100 made by the Miller Board for utilizing sewage be referred to the Health Committee of the Faculty.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday, with the exception of Mr. Gilmore, absent.

The Com. on Apparatus submitted the following report which upon being read and considered, on motion was approved and adopted, and is as follows.

The Committee on Apparatus beg leave to report that they have made the usual inspection, which has been necessarily brief. They regret the brevity and superficial nature of their examination less than they otherwise would, because of the fact that the two Professors in charge (Profs. Mallet & Smith) are men who take every possible precaution for the preservation of the property of the University in their hands.

Your Committee are pleased to report a few additions to the apparatus in the School of Natural Philosophy, specially a valuable Reflecting Telescope, with silvered glass Speculum-which is immensely more useful and valuable than the old and very inferior instruments which were the only telescopes in our possession.

The Finance Committee having already reported a recommendation that a special appropriation in addition to the Customary annual appropriation be made for the purchase of some very necessary articles in the School of Nat. Phy. Your Committee deem it needless to say more of those articles named in the report of Prof. Smith of the Conduct of the School. Everything in the departments of both Chemistry and Natural Philosophy is arranged with the greatest system and preserved with scrupulous neatness and care.

At the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Va. held this 24th day of June 1878. Present- Messrs Bocock, Gilmore, Hart, Marye, Randolph & Whitehead.

In the absence of the Rector, on motion of Dr. Randolph Mr. Bocock was chosen Rector pro.tem. who thereupon called the Board to order.

On motion the Secretary was instructed to wait upon the Chairman of the Faculty and inform him that the Board is in session and request him to present before the Board such matters as he may have for their consideration, which was done by the Secretary and Prof. Harrison, Chairman of the Faculty appeared before the Board and submitted with his annual communication the following reports:

1\. Faculty Report.

2\. Report of the Proctor & Superintendent.

3\. Report of the Commr of Accounts.

4\. Proctor's Report of Agrl Dept. for the Miller Board

5\. Letter of Genl F. H. Smith of the Miller Institute.

6\. Report of the Infirmary Board.

7\. Report of the Librarian.

8\. Report on Apparatus in School of Genl and App. Chemistry.

9\. Letter of application of C. C. Holden.

10\. Application of Adj. Prof. F. P. Dunnington for quarters.

11\. Professors Reports of Classwork.

12\. Application of the Proctor for leave of absence.

13\. Application for additional room for Y. Mens Christian Assoc. Reading Room.

Also a letter from the Rector stating that he was prevented by sickness from attending the meeting of the Board at this time.

On motion, resolved that the application of G. Peyton, Esqr. Proctor & Superintendent for leave of absence be referred to Messrs Marye and Gilmore as a Committee for report thereon.

Ordered, That, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty, Messrs Floyd, Hughes and H. E. Harris, be allowed special examinations in German & Greek respectively at the beginning of the next session.

Ordered, that those points of the Report of the Faculty which relate to salaries and the general financial estimates for the Session 1878-9 be referred to the Finance Committee. That the application for Reading Room for Y. M. C. Association, and other requests involving any change in the existing arrangements of Rooms &c be referred to the Committee on grounds & buildings.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 8 A.M.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday with the addition of Mr. Conrad who arrived this morning.

On motion the following resolution was adopted: The Board of Visitors having maturely considered the recommendation of the Faculty for the appointment of a Committee of their body, with whom the Board may confer in certain cases, doth Resolve

That this Board deems it very desirable that it should have an opportunity to obtain information and suggestions, from the Faculty, without delay, on important recommendations contained in their reports, and on any other subjects of difficulty that may come before it, and doth therefore declare, that on the notification of this Board, that such information and suggestions are desired, the Faculty may be heard through a Committee of their own selection, unless in any case a different mode may be deemed advisable.

On motion, Resolved, that a Committee of three be appointed to consider and report on the following subjects.

1\. How much is given or surrendered to each student messing by the University- Whether or not it is expedient to return to the plan formerly followed of assigning to each Boarding House certain dormitories for the year; the Mess being treated as a Boarding House.

3\. Whether the Board paid by each student should not be reduced and how much?

Messrs Randolph, Whitehead and Hart were appointed Committee under the foregoing resolution.

Mr. Stuart, the Rector, appeared and assumed his position in the Board.

The following Reports &c were received through the Chairman of the Faculty, viz-

Annl Report of the School of Anl. & Agl Chemistry.

Inventory of apparatus &c in charge of Mr. Dunnington Adj. Prof. of Anl & Agl Chemistry.

Application of Mrs. S. E. Massie, widow of Henry Massie decd for the Hotel lately kept by her husband.

Class Reports of such of the Schools as were not submitted on yesterday all of which were referred to the appropriate Committees.

The Committee on the Conduct of Schools submitted the following report, which upon being read and considered on motion was approved and adopted.

Gentlemen- Your Committee on the "Conduct of the Schools" beg leave to submit the following report.

1\. To express their gratification at the full report furnished by each professor.

2\. To congratulate the Board of Visitors and the Faculty on the orderly conduct and studious habits of the past session and the number & high grade of graduates reported.

3\. The mode of applying discipline to students absent from class or neglecting class work is slow and cumbrous; and inefficient because ending in leave to withdraw from College or expulsion in incorrigible cases the punishment would not be wisely inflicted where the fault was in one school only. We recommend therefore that the Professor in whose class such neglect has occurred should be empowered on consultation with the Chairman, who should also decide whether to bring the special case before the Faculty or not, and with his consent to drop the offender from the Roll of his class. The student having the right to appeal from the Professor and Chairman to the Faculty.

4\. The committee is fully aware of the numerous difficulties surrounding the subject of the length of examinations. In written examinations the tendency is always too great length, it is to be feared in some instances that they degenerate into physical rather than mental tests.

Your Committee therefore urge upon Professors the importance of making every effort to make their examinations as short as is consistent with a fair and full test of the candidates knowledge.

5\. Your Committee have been much impressed with the importance of the establishment of a School of English in the Institution as urged by three of the Professors. We quote the following extracts— Prof. Price says "If the authorities of the University could so act by establishing a professorship of the English language here, as to encourage and require the study of the English both at the University itself and in the Schools that feed the University, immense impulse would be given to the successful study of the Greek, to all other philological studies of the University and to the general culture of our undergraduates and graduates. The young men in the great majority of cases, come up to us so grossly ignorant of their own language as to be wantonly unfit to learn the other languages that they try to study", Prof. Schele in speaking of the state of preparation in his class as compared with previous years says—"Inferior in the whole, an inferiority especially perceptible in the want of a thorough English education". This subject is beginning to much agitate the educational world and the necessity of a more careful and scientific study of the English language both with regard to its effective use and with respect to its relations to other studies is generally recognized. In many other institutions chairs of the English language have been established and courses of instruction are now offered their students much superior to anything the University now offers. We are not willing that the University of Va. shall be behind in this matter and we greatly lament that our financial condition seems to render the immediate erection of such a Chair perilous if not impossible.

6\. The Professor of Modern languages requests than an additional hour should be given time for his senior classes of French and German each week. The Catalogue shows only two hours during the week assigned him for Senior French; if practicable we would suggest to the Faculty that an additional hour should be assigned Prof. Schele for his Senior French Class. The Senior German Class having three hours per week we fear additional time could not be assigned.

We regret to be obliged to disapprove of the Professor's request to be allowed to decline to form a class in any one of the Modern Languages when there is not at least three students in that class as also the request that students be prohibited from studying more than two modern languages in one session. While we may regret the labor imposed on the Professor we do not think it right that the Institution should fail to afford instruction in any study embraced in her recognized schools that a student may select.

7\. The Professor of Natural Philosophy urgently requests an appropriation in addition to his annual appropriation to enable him to purchase certain articles necessary for his School. He states that his school has no good Air Pump, nor Spectroscope, nor modern electroscope of any kind nor a gramme machine.

Thes\[e\] articles seem to us of such prime importance that notwithstanding the urgent need of the greatest economy we recommand if possible n appropriation of two hundred dollars for that purpose.

8\. Your Committee hope that at their next meeting the Faculty will be ready to report a plan for modifying the Degrees to improve the present requirements of the Institution on that subject. In our opinion it is a matter of great importance to the institution.

9\. Your Committee ask that the Board of Visitors will request the Faculty to prepare a printed form for their reports as being more convenient for them and also for the Committee.

Your Committee asks leave to make a special report on the subject of the School of applied Mathematics & Anal. Chem. They have not as yet such information as they may obtain by consultation with the Professor.

For the same reason we ask leave to be allowed to make a similar report on the School of Analytical and Agricultural Chemistry.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. The Rector in the Chair. Present the same members as on yesterday.

The Committee to whom was referred the application of the Proctor for leave of absence reported the following resolution which on motion was adopted: viz

Resolved- That the Board accede to the request of the Proctor that he may be absent from the University from about the 10th of July until the first week in September, it being understood that the Proctor will see to it that all matters needing his attention during that period shall be cared for by a competent person.

The Chairman of the Faculty presented to the Board the Applications respectively of Messrs Henry E. Harris and T. W. Harrison, (with his remarks appended to each), to be allowed to stand special examinations which being read and considered-on motion- Ordered- That the applications of T. W. Harrison and Henry E. Harnis for leave to stand re-examinations on certain subjects, be recommitted to the Faculty with the recommendation that the applications be granted, if in the opinion of the Faculty the circumstances of each case make it proper and the interests of the University will not suffer thereby.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 9 A.M.

Net amount for appropriation

$3,778.65

$110.63

Deficiency called for by Prof. Page

1600.00

Towards Prof. Page's Salary

320.00

Towards Prof. Mallet's Salary

180.00

Towards Prof. Thornton's Salary

75.00

Publication

1000.00

Experimental Farm

50.00

Wood to burn tiles & Erect Kiln

150.00

Barn

100.00

To utilize sewage

$3583.63

3585.63

Reserved to meet contingencies

$ 193.02

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday.

Ordered- That the scheme proposed by the Miller Board for the distribution of the sum of $3585.63 appropriated by that Board for the Miller Fund of the University be adopted by this Board & that this resolution be communicated to the Miller Board.

The scheme referred to in the foregoing resolution is as follows:

The joint Committee of this and the Miller Board upon the present condition of the Agricultural School having been submitted and read- on motion

Ordered- That the report of the joint Committee of Messrs Randolph & McBryde be laid over until the next meeting of the Board for consideration.

Ordered- That the Rector be requested to apply to the General Assembly at its next session for appropriate legislation, confirming and ratifying the deed of trust heretofore executed by this Board on the personal property of the University to secure the bonds for $10,000 delivered to the Miller Board.

Resolved- That section 3 of the Report of the Committee on the Conduct of Schools, empowering a Professor under certain circumstances, in concert with the Chairman of the Faculty to drop the name of a student from his Class Book, be hereby suspended from operation and that the whole subject be referred to the Faculty with the request that they present their views on it to this Board at its next annual meeting.

A letter was received from Mr. Goode stating that he was prevented from attending the present meeting of the Board by engagements in Court.

Whereas this Board desires to preserve in permanent form some record of the public opening of the Brooks Museum both in grateful appreciation of the munificence of Mr. Brooks, and to give enduring form to the addresses delivered on the occasion-

Therefore Resolved-

1\. That we hereby request of Hon. A. H. H. Stuart and Dr. James C. Southall copies of the addresses delivered by them this day.

2\. That the Executive Committee cause to be printed 1000 copies of said addresses with such other matter as they may judge suitable, of which 200 copies shall be bound.

3\. That 10 copies of said publication as bound shall be deposited in the University Library, and the others disposed of as the Executive Committee may deem best.

4\. That the Executive Committee be authorized to draw on the Proctor for the cost of publication.

5\. That Mr. Hart be requested to ask of Dr. Southall a copy of his address.

The Com. on Grounds & Buildings submitted their report which upon being read and considered on motion was received approved & adopted, and is as follows.

To the Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia.

The Committee on Grounds & Buildings beg to report that they have made a careful examination of both and are gratified to be able to state that there is a manifest improvement in the appearance of both since your last annual meeting.

They have considered the application of Prof. Dunnington & recommend that the pavilion next to the old boarding house be assigned to him as he requests. They have also considered the application of Prof. Davis asking for a change in the sewer & recommend that said sewer be removed from the lands of Prof. Davis & be constructed through the grounds of the University west so as to connect with the sewer running from the western lawn. Said change can be made at an estimated cost not exceeding two hundred dollars. Your Committee have also considered the application of Mrs. Massie & recommend her appointment as boarding house keeper. They have also considered the application of the Young Mens Christian Association & beg to recommend that the present lecture room of Prof. Schele be assigned to said association upon the same terms as the rooms now occupied by the Washington & Jefferson Societies, are assigned to them. They recommend that the Old Chemical Lecture Room be assigned to Prof. Schele for a lecture room.

Your Committee recommend that the lecture room in the Natural History building be assigned to Prof. Page & that the lecture room now occupied by Prof. Page be assigned to Prof. Smith for his uses.

Your Committee recommend that the Proctor be ordered to select two dormitories and have a door made in the partition between them so that said dormitories can be used as rooms for the Secretary of this Board, the Secretary of the Faculty and the Secretary of the Miller Board- and that said rooms hen selected be assigned to said officers for that purpose. They recommend that the manner of using the appropriation of $100 made by the Miller Board for utilizing sewage be referred to the Health Committee of the Faculty.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday, with the exception of Mr. Gilmore, absent.

The Com. on Apparatus submitted the following report which upon being read and considered, on motion was approved and adopted, and is as follows.

The Committee on Apparatus beg leave to report that they have made the usual inspection, which has been necessarily brief. They regret the brevity and superficial nature of their examination less than they otherwise would, because of the fact that the two Professors in charge (Profs. Mallet & Smith) are men who take every possible precaution for the preservation of the property of the University in their hands.

Your Committee are pleased to report a few additions to the apparatus in the School of Natural Philosophy, specially a valuable Reflecting Telescope, with silvered glass Speculum-which is immensely more useful and valuable than the old and very inferior instruments which were the only telescopes in our possession.

The Finance Committee having already reported a recommendation that a special appropriation in addition to the Customary annual appropriation be made for the purchase of some very necessary articles in the School of Nat. Phy. Your Committee deem it needless to say more of those articles named in the report of Prof. Smith of the Conduct of the School. Everything in the departments of both Chemistry and Natural Philosophy is arranged with the greatest system and preserved with scrupulous neatness and care.