 TEI to HTML

Estimate of expenses:
---------------------

Salaries of 15 Professors at $3000 each

$45,000.

(including Prof. Natural History & Geology just elected)

Salaries of two adjunct Profs., Applied Chem & Engng

4,000.

Salary of Demonstrator of Anatomy

800.

Salary of Assistant Instructor in Modern Languages

600.

Salaries of officers

4,300.

Adertising

500.

Printing

150.

Catalogues

500.

Repairs and improvements to be itemized in Proctor's report, including $1000 for repairs of College buildings & $500 for repairs &c to Prof. Prices house

4,500.

Labour

1,200.

Contingent account

1,250.

Interest on debt

7,500.

Library

300.

Fuel

500.

Gas

500.

Commutation of rents

1,200.

Apparatus & material, School of Chemistry $150. and special appropriation of 150. School of Natural Philosophy $150., Engineering $50; in all

500.

Library from Corcoran Donation

1,000.

Experimental farm

1,000.

Special appropriation - Asst Librarian

700.

Upon the unanimous recommendation of the Executive Committee which was concurred in by a majority of the other members of the Board, viz. Messrs Goode, Gilmore & Hart, and communicated to the Secretary in writing some days prior to this date, the meeting to be held on this day in pursuance of the adjournment on the 12th of September last was by consent, postponed to the 27th day of June next, and notice thereof forwarded by the Secretary to each member of the Board prior to this date.

The Board of Visitors this day met in pursuance of the postponement from the 4th of February last.

Present Messrs Conrad, Gilmore, Marye, Randolph and Whitehead.

On motion Mr. Marye was chosen Rector pro temp., in the absence of the Rector, who thereupon called the Board to order.

A communication was received from the Rector, Mr. Stuart, stating that he was prevented by sickness from being present at this meeting.

On motion the Secretary was requested to inform Prof. Harrison, Chairman of the Faculty, that the Board were in session and ready to receive the Faculty report and any other matters to be submitted for consideration, which being communicated by the Secretary to Prof. Harrison, he appeared before the Board and submitted the Annual report of the Faculty with the usual accompanying reports of the Proctor &c, and other papers- which were received by the Rector pro tem. and laid before the Board.

The Rector pro tem. on motion proceeded with the reading of the Faculty report, which being concluded, On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 9 A.M.

University of Va., June 28th 1879

The Board met and was called to order at 2.45 P.M. by the Rector pro tem. Mr. Marye.

Present, the same members as on yesterday with the addition of Mr. Goode and Mr. Hart.

On motion of Mr. Whitehead the Board decided to enter on the examination of the papers submitted by the various candidates for the Chair of Natural History & Geology, but before proceeding with this business Dr. Randolph submitted the report of the executive Committee which bears upon the question of filling said chair, and is as follows:

Your Committee have the honor to make the following report of their transactions for the past year: Your Committee authorized Dr. J. F. Harrison to expend sixty dollars in the purchase of instruments necessary for the instruction of his class. A petition largely signed by students requesting that the ordinance in reference to board should be so amended as to permit them to change their boarding houses without requiring them to give up their rooms. We referred their application to the Faculty who advised that no change should be made in the ordinance; we therefore declined to accede to their request.

The President of the U.S. appointed Professor J. L. Cabell a member of the National Board of Health. Your Committee having satisfied themselves that his class would not suffer, authorized his acceptance. He was subsequently appointed by the Board of Health their President. This compliment to our distinguished Professor was well deserved and highly honorable to the University. In April your Committee requested Dr. Cabell to attend the meeting of the National Medical Association at Atlanta and thus authorized his absence. In May last Professor Ward wrote to the Chairman of the Faculty offering to furnish the cases for the Botanical Museum at a cost of seven hundred and fifty dollars. Your Committee authorized the Chairman to request Professor Ward to proceed to have the cases made and to inform him that the amount would be paid on their delivery.

At your called meeting in September last you requested your Executive Committee "by correspondence or otherwise to collect such information as they could in regard to the qualifications of the candidates for the Professorship of Natural History and Geology". In your resolution prescribing the subjects to be taught in the School you specified the following; "Geology, Mineralogy and such branches of Natural History as the Board of Visitors may hereafter determine". Profoundly impressed with the importance to the University and the material interest of the State, of a judicious selection of this Professor; and being conscious that the subjects to be taught were those that were less known by gentlemen of the average culture than almost any others taught in the institution; your Committee were naturally diffident of their ability to correctly appreciate the requirements necessary for such an appointee. This being the case they availed themselves of the informal permission granted by the Board at their called meeting of applying to the Faculty for their advice, such application was made by the Rector and Chairman of the Ex. Committee. A Committee was appointed by the Faculty and their report was considered and unanimously adopted at their December meeting. It is forwarded as a part of this report and your attention respectfully called to it. Your Committee have only considered the testimonials of practical Geologists and have alone investigated their qualifications. They have excluded from their investigations the qualifications of theoretical Geologists. First because the University has for thirty years taught by its Professors of Natural Philosophy a class in didactic Geology and Mineralogy. The well known capacity and conscientious devotion to duty of its two professors Rogers and Smith is ample guarantee that the science so far as it can be taught didactically has been successfully taught by them. Second, the present condition of the State, her poverty, the failure of her old industries and the necessity for new, when taken in connection with her rapidly increasing reputation for mineral wealth admonish us of the need of a more than didactical course on these subjects. Third, in common with all new studies the success of a Professor in securing a class is problematical. Had we a theorist alone he would be useful for nothing else but didactic teaching. While with a practical man who has won reputation in the field and and laboratory by geological surveys the University would be thrown in renewed and more intimate relations with the material interests of the State. Fourth, the University had the honor of inaugurating and partially completing the only Geological survey of the State worthy of the name, The Geological Survey of Virginia by Professor Rogers. It is most desirable that he should have the credit of its completion. This can only be done by a Field Geologist. For these reasons your Committee have thought that your intentions as shown when the chair was organized could only be carried out by a practical Geologist.

It seems to us obvious that only a Geologist who has won reputation among scientific men by work in the field and in the laboratory could be classed as such. We then have turned our attention to such alone and have given most weight to information that shows the success or failure of candidates in original research or in field work. Information that proves excellence in writings or lectures on Biology, Evolution and all similar speculative studies cognate to Geological Knowledge for practical uses have been regarded as of little worth either to carry out the original design of the donor or the intentions of the Board in the establishment of the Chair. In estimating the value of the testimonials and of such information as we may have obtained by by correspondence or otherwise have carefully weighed the sources. Have given most weight to the opinions of specialists and scientists of acknowledged reputation who are leaders in this branch of science and least weight to popular estimate and newspaper articles other than those of the Scientific periodicals. Placing the first as far ahead of ourselves in Knowledge of the subject and not recognizing the latter as more than equals. Of the candidates whose testimonials are before you there are five who rank high among scientific men, Messrs. Fontaine, Comstock, Kerr, Hitcock and Little. The three latter hold official rank as Geologists of States and have been or are now engaged in surveys of their respective States. Of these five from all the information that we have been able to get, Mr. Fontaine ranks highest. He commends himself most to us both as a Virginian, an alumnus and Master of Arts of the University, as a trained and successful teacher, as a Geologist who has won his reputation by his surveys of Virginia and as a man whose knowledge is progressive, whose last works scientists consider his best. It is useless for us to allude to his testimonials, they are before you for your consideration. Sufficient is it for us to say that our information derived from correspondence or otherwise more than justifies any commendation of him they may make. We cannot cease this subject without testifying our obligation to our Faculty individually and collectively for the valuable aid furnished us in our investigation. At your meeting in September, Professor Joseph Leconte's name was brought before you as possibly an available candidate. He was written to and invited to become a candidate, he held the matter under advisement, but finally in January declined to present his name.

On motion, resolved that the election of Professor for the Chair of Natural History & Geology be postponed to the regular annual meeting commencing on the 30th inst.

Jno. L. Marye Rector pro: temp.

Jas. D. Jones Secretary.

At the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University-

Present- Messrs Conrad, Bocock, Gilmore, Hart, Marye, Randolph & Whitehead.

The Board was called to order by Mr. Marye, Rector pro tem.

A letter was read from the Rector, Mr. Stuart, stating that he continued to be too unwell to attend the meeting and that his physician had prohibited his doing so. Mr. Goode, it was announced upon information by letter from him, is prevented from being present by his official duties in Congress.

On motion the Board proceeded to consider the matters of business brought to its attention by the Annual reports of the Faculty and its Chairman, with the accompanying papers, submitted at the irregular meeting concluded on the 28th inst. and references made to the appropriate Committees for their consideration & report to the Board.

A letter, in which our Honored Rector, the Hon. A. H. H. Stuart, under date of the 28th inst. gives an account of the connection of W. W. Corcoran, Esq. with the question of selecting a suitable person to fill the chair of Natural History & Geology, recently endowed by him, having been produced and read before the Board.

On motion- The Board doth resolve, that having in their possession full and accurate information of the entire action taken by M. Corcoran as to the selection of the person to fill the said chair, deem it their duty to put on record their declaration, that all criticisms on unfavorable sentiments which have been expressed or felt in regard to the participation of Mr. Corcoran in this matter have been caused by misapprehension of the facts of the case, and that Mr. Corcoran is entitled to occupy the same high position of enlightened and disinterested liberality to the University which public opinion has heretofore with so much unanimity assigned him.

2\. Resolved that the circumstances seem to justify a renewed declaration on our part of our unshaken respect for Mr. Corcoran, and our undiminished gratitude for his noble and enlarged benefactions to this cherished Institution of Learning.

3\. Resolved, that the Secretary forward a copy of these resolutions to Mr. Corcoran.

Mr. G. F. Nicolassen submitted his application, forwarded through the Chairman of the Faculty, to be allowed a special examination at the beginning of the next session, which on being read and considered was on motion referred to the Faculty with the request that they report to the present meeting of the Board their recommendation in the premises.

At 4 P.M. the Board proceeded to consider the election of a Professor to fill the Chair of Natural History & Geology, in pursuance of its resolution of the 28th inst. and after such consideration Mr. Conrad moved that William M. Fontaine be elected Professor of the Corcoran School of Natural History and Geology in the University of Virginia, which motion was seconded by Mr. Gilmore.

Whereupon William M. Fontaine was elected by the unanimous vote of the Visitors present, viz- Messrs Bocock, Gilmore, Hart, Marye, Randolph & Whitehead.

Resolved, that the Secretary inform Mr. Fontaine of his election, by letter.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet at 9 A.M. on the 3d proximo.

University of Virginia July 3d 1879.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on the 30th ult. Present, Messrs Conrad, Bocock, Marye, Randolph, Whitehead, Gilmore, & Hart.

Mr. Marye, Rector pro tem. called the Board to order.

The Library Committee submitted their report, which was read and adopted, and is as follows:

The Committee on the Library respectfully report that upon a personal inspection of the Library, they find the Books well preserved, and the cases and other furniture in good condition. The judicious plan persued both as to the classification and cataloguing of the books, maps, engravings &c renders the access to and use of the Library convenient and agreeable.

In regard to the matters specially mentioned in the report of the Faculty, the Committee recommend as follows.

I. That the concession proposed by the Faculty as to the use of the Library by certain persons during the vacation be ordered on the terms suggested. And the Committee further recommend that the use of the Library be granted to such persons as are now on who have heretofore been members of the Board of Visitors who are residents in the vicinity of the University.

II. That the disposition by sale of imperfect books, odd volumes, duplicate sets, and useless books, be ordered, under the restrictions and terms proposed by the Faculty.

III. That hereafter the income annually received from the fund contributed by President Madison for the benefit of the Library be specifically designated in the appropriations made each year for the Library, as "The Madison donation."

IV. In regard to the enlargement of the appropriation for the Library, the Committee, while duly sensible of the great desirableness thereof, can furnish us information to aid the Board in its conclusions which is not already possessed by other members.

V. The Committee recommends that the Board place on its Records an appropriate testimonial as to the long and faithful services rendered as Librarian by William Wertenbaker, Esqr. The deep symathy of its members in his bodily afflictions, and that the existing salary allowed him be continued to him during the residue of his life. And in view of the increased labors imposed upon the Assistant Librarian, F. W. Page, Esq. by the disabilities of Mr. Wertenbaker, it is recommended that the sum of \_\_\_\_\_ be allowed to Mr. Page as compensation for the present fiscal year. The forms of orders to be entered in the above matters, in case the Board concurs in the foregoing recommendations, are herewith presented.

Ordered, that the following regulations in regard to the use of the Library be adopted, in the stead of the existing regulations on the same subject.

"The Librarian may permit persons residing at, or near the University, for purposes of study, during the vacation, to use the Library, with the approval of the Chairman, and under the regulations established for the Library, but only at such hours as may be specially appointed, on condition that each such person pay to the Librarian, a fee of Three dollars and make a contingent deposit of Fifteen dollars against which may be assessed any charge for loss of books, or injury to them. But the use of the Library during vacation shall not be allowed, except upon the condition that the Librarian or Assistant Librarian consent to remain during vacation to attend the Library, or employ a competent substitute, approved by the Faculty, to act in his place, for whose fidelity the Librarian or Assistant Librarian so employing him shall be responsible.

Ordered, that the income annually received from the Fund donated by James Madison for the benefit of the Library be specifically mentioned in each annual appropriation for the Library, and the books bought with this income be stamped with his name.

Ordered, that ex-members of the Board of Visitors resident at or in the vicinity of the University be allowed the use of the Library.

The Board having heard with sincere sorrow of the feeble health and suffering state of Wm. Wertenbaker, Esqr. who, with but slight interruption of time, has filled the Office of Librarian, from the date of his appointment in 1825 by Thomas Jefferson until the present time, do here record their testimony as to the conspicuous fidelity and usefulness of this veteran officer, and the zeal with which he loved and labored for the University- and they tender to him their earnest sympathies in his severe affliction.

The Secretary is directed to deliver a copy of this minute to Mr. Wertenbaker.

Ordered, That the Librarian do make sale in such mode as shall be ordered by the Faculty of such imperfect books, odd volumes, sets of books where duplicate sets exist, and useless books, in the Library, the net proceeds of which sale shall go into the Library appropriation.-

Provided, that the List of the Books so to be sold, shall have been first examined, and the sale thereof ordered by an unanimous vote of the members of the Faculty present at a meeting convened for the consideration of the matter.

In view of the largely increased labors imposed upon the Assistant Librarian, Mr. F. W. Page, it is ordered, that he be allowed Seven hundred dollars as his compensation during the present fiscal year- and that as compensation for the increased labor performed by him for the two months preceding the 1st of June last, he be allowed the additional sum of One hundred and twenty five dollars.

Report of Committee on Apparatus.

The Committee have examined the condition of the Apparatus &c belonging to the Schools of Natural Philosophy & Chemistry. We find the rooms, apparatus and chemicals in their usual neat and orderly condition. We have nothing to suggest in the way of additions to the appliances for instruction in these Schools, beyond the annual appropriations recommended in the report of the Faculty.

John Hart Com.

Paul Whitehead Com.

J. H. Gilmore Com.

Which report was read and on motion adopted.

The Committee on Grounds and Buildings submitted the following as their report which upon being read & considered on motion was approved & adopted- as follows:

The Committee on Grounds & Buildings have made careful examination of the grounds & buildings & see nothing at this time especially needed except the painting of all the exposed exterior wood work of the various buildings. This is particularly needed for the preservation of the wood work & your Committee are of opinion that an expenditure of one thousand dollars will be perhaps sufficient for the purpose.

If this amount can be spared they would recommend an appropriation of this sum in addition to the usual appropriation of three thousand dollars for repairs.

Your Committee would also recommend that the Proctor be directed to have a porch built in front and rear of the house now occupied by Prof. Price and on consultation with him, to make such other repairs as said residence may need and as can be done, all at an expense of not over $500 which we recommend to be appropriated for that purpose.

Your Committee have considered the application of Prof. Schele upon the subject of a stable & recommend that leave be given him to erect a stable near the stables now used for the experimental farm, at such point as may be agreed upon by himself & Prof. Page. Your Committee approve of the action of the Proctor in regard to the sewer in rear of the Rotunda & recommend its approval by the Board.

There being no house that can be assigned to Prof. Fontaine your Committee recommend that the rent be commuted.

July 1, 1879

W. C. N. Randolph, Chairman

Resolved, that the Proctor be and he is hereby authorized and empowered, if in his opinion, it should be necessary, to negotiate a temporary loan not exceeding five thousand dollars in amount, to be applied to the payment of arrears of salary due to the Professors, provided that the payments made, be in equal proportion of the amounts so due and in arrears to the different Professors.

Ordered that the action of the Faculty in the expulsion of Charles Fremont Jones, a student from Indianna be hereby confirmed.

Ordered that the action of the Faculty in expelling Mr. F. L. Holmes be hereby confirmed, but the Board submits to the discretion of the Faculty any future modification in this case of the sentence of expulsion.

Your Committee having considered the report of the Committee of the Faculty on Boarding Houses and the Report of the Ex. Committee recommend, that

1st The amount paid by each Boarding House Keeper for each person boarded shall be five dollars instead of seven and a half per month as herefore.

2d That the action of the Ex. Committee in regard to the petition of students applying for leave to change their boarding house without changing their room, be confirmed and the request of the petitioners not acceded to.

3d In reply to application of Mr. Shumate; that the Board decline to assign more rooms to the Messes than has been already assigned by the action of the last year.

4th That a charge of 20 cents per head per month be assessed upon all students while living at the Mess as rent for the rooms used as Mess Halls and offices.

W. C. N. Randolph, Chariman.

The Resolutions of the Faculty allowing special examinations to Mr. G. F. Nicollassen and to Mr. A. B. Gunter who failed in the final examination in History was received and considered by the Board and on motion,

Resolved, that the resolution be approved and adopted and the said examination be allowed, and this privilege is granted the applicants without the usual matriculation fee. It being stipulated that the applicants shall stand the regular final examination in History with the class at the close of the next session.

The Committee have examined the annual reports from the several schools, they fully confirm the statement of the general report of the Faculty as to the diligence in study of the body of the students. They also show, we think, that the percentage of successful candidates for graduation in many schools, perhaps in all, is larger than usual. We interpret this to mean, not any letting down of standards, but higher preparation and better work on the part of the students.

The Reports come to us in a very convenient form prepared by the Faculty. We advise the adoption of that form.

Many of our professors are subjected to a great amount of mere drudgery in the correction of exercises &c. This is especially true in the School of Modern Languages. For the partial relief of Prof. Schele de Vere who has so long and so well filled this Chair, we recommend, that, with the advice and consent of the Executive Committee, he be authorized to select a Tutor in his department who shall aid in the instruction of the School as the Professor may direct and for the quality of whose teaching the Professor shall be responsible, we further recommend an appropriation of more than $600 for the salary of said Tutor.

Since the foregoing part of this report was written the Committee have read the report of the Faculty on this subject which advises that certain items in the form submitted be stricken out on the ground that they cover ground already covered in the general Faculty Report. We therefore recommend that the Faculty be requested to prepare a form of "Special School Reports" to be used hereafter, making that form provide for "Average Attendance" on Lectures as heretofore.

W. C. N. Randolph,

Chairman.

Ordered, 1. That in conformity with the recommendation of the above report the Professor of Modern Languages is authorized, with the advice and consent of the Executive Committee to employ a Tutor.

2\. That a sum not more than $600 be appropriated as salary of said Tutor.

Resolved, that twenty dollars per annum be added to the salary of the Janitor.

Ordered, that the Proctor be authorized and requested to provide suitable cases for storing the records of the Board of Visitors and of the Miller Board and have the same placed in the respective offices of the Secretaries of the two Boards, and also the necessary tables, chairs &c for said offices.

Ordered, That the assignment of Lecture Rooms for Professors Page & Fontaine- The care of the Museum Building & contents, the question as to what branch of Natural History shall be assigned to Prof. Fontaine, and provision to enable Prof. Fontaine to remove to the University certain specimens which he proposed to place in the Museum, be referred to the Executive Committee.

It appearing to the Board, that, within a few years past, the minutes and records of the Board have been open to the inspection of persons not members of the Board, and that the present Secretary found this liberty being exercised when he entered upon his official duties, and it being clear to the judgment of the Board that the minutes and other Records should be open to the inspection only of the members and officers of the Board, (and to the General Assembly of Virginia whenever so requiring) the same is so ordered, and the Secretary instructed accordingly.

In order to Inform the Faculty and the Proctor of the action taken by the Board in matters needed to be communicated to them respectively copies of the proceedings of the Board in such case shall be delivered by the Secretary.

The Board of Visitors being of opinion that R. H. Dabney is a student of the State of Virginia within the meaning of Chap. 102, Acts of 1875-1876.

Resolved, that Mr. R. H. Dabney is entitled to the benefits of that Act, and may be educated under the existing regulations in regard to Virginia students, in the University without charge for tuition in the Academic department.

The Finance Committee submitted the follow- as their report which upon being read and considered on motion was approved and adopted.

The Finance Committee beg leave to report.

1\. That the Financial condition of the University is more satisfactory and encouraging than it has een for many years. As appears from the Report of the Proctor, the entire past due indebtedness, with the exception of $3000 (for which adequate provision is made) is now funded in bonds payable in 30 years.

2\. An estimate of expenditures for the next year is herewith reported with the recommendation that the necessary appropriation be made.

3\. The additional expenditures recommended are $1000.00 for the repairs, especially the repainting of the College buildings - $500 - for the addition of a porch and such other improvements as may be necessary, to the house occupied by Prof. Price, $600, for the salary of an Assistant instructor in the School of Modern Languages.

Holmes Conrad, Chairman

Resolved, that hereafter the matriculation fee shall be sixty dollars ($60), which shall embrace all charges for Room Bent, Diplomas, Infirmary use and Medical Attention;

Provided that in case of those students who live at home, there shall be an abatement of $15 on account of room rent, and of $7.50 on account of medical attendance and Infirmary-and Provided that in the case of those students who prefer a room to themselves there shall be an additional charge of Fifteen dollars ($15).

Resolved, That the Matriculation fee now provided for the sum of $7.50 in each case shall be set apart and held as an Infirmary fund for the use of Infirmary as heretofore.

Resolved, that a sum not to exceed $500 be expended in the repair of the house occupied by Prof. Price.

Resolved, that the several appropriations recommended in the report of the Finance Committee be and they are now made as though each formed the subject of a separate resolution.

Resolved, that the salary of the Secretary of the Board of Visitors be fixed hereafter at one hundred and fifty dollars ($150).

The Board doth appoint Prof. James F. Harrison Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year and doth appoint the Rector and Thomas S. Bocock and W. C. N. Randolph as the Executive Committee of the Board for the ensuing year.

Resolved, that the members of the Board of Visitors, now in attendance have felt with deep regret the absence of their Rector, the Hon. A. H. H. Stuart and they beg leave to tender to him their profound sympathy in his protracted ill health, and their sincere desire for his speedy recovery.

And this being the last regular meeting which will occur during the term of service of the Present Board they deem it proper to record their sense of the ability and fidelity which have characterized all his his official action, and the distinguished courtesy he has displayed in his intercourse with his fellow members.

Ordered that the Board do now adjourn.

Upon the unanimous recommendation of the Executive Committee which was concurred in by a majority of the other members of the Board, viz. Messrs Goode, Gilmore & Hart, and communicated to the Secretary in writing some days prior to this date, the meeting to be held on this day in pursuance of the adjournment on the 12th of September last was by consent, postponed to the 27th day of June next, and notice thereof forwarded by the Secretary to each member of the Board prior to this date.

The Board of Visitors this day met in pursuance of the postponement from the 4th of February last.

Present Messrs Conrad, Gilmore, Marye, Randolph and Whitehead.

On motion Mr. Marye was chosen Rector pro temp., in the absence of the Rector, who thereupon called the Board to order.

A communication was received from the Rector, Mr. Stuart, stating that he was prevented by sickness from being present at this meeting.

On motion the Secretary was requested to inform Prof. Harrison, Chairman of the Faculty, that the Board were in session and ready to receive the Faculty report and any other matters to be submitted for consideration, which being communicated by the Secretary to Prof. Harrison, he appeared before the Board and submitted the Annual report of the Faculty with the usual accompanying reports of the Proctor &c, and other papers- which were received by the Rector pro tem. and laid before the Board.

The Rector pro tem. on motion proceeded with the reading of the Faculty report, which being concluded, On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 9 A.M.

Your Committee have the honor to make the following report of their transactions for the past year: Your Committee authorized Dr. J. F. Harrison to expend sixty dollars in the purchase of instruments necessary for the instruction of his class. A petition largely signed by students requesting that the ordinance in reference to board should be so amended as to permit them to change their boarding houses without requiring them to give up their rooms. We referred their application to the Faculty who advised that no change should be made in the ordinance; we therefore declined to accede to their request.

The President of the U.S. appointed Professor J. L. Cabell a member of the National Board of Health. Your Committee having satisfied themselves that his class would not suffer, authorized his acceptance. He was subsequently appointed by the Board of Health their President. This compliment to our distinguished Professor was well deserved and highly honorable to the University. In April your Committee requested Dr. Cabell to attend the meeting of the National Medical Association at Atlanta and thus authorized his absence. In May last Professor Ward wrote to the Chairman of the Faculty offering to furnish the cases for the Botanical Museum at a cost of seven hundred and fifty dollars. Your Committee authorized the Chairman to request Professor Ward to proceed to have the cases made and to inform him that the amount would be paid on their delivery.

At your called meeting in September last you requested your Executive Committee "by correspondence or otherwise to collect such information as they could in regard to the qualifications of the candidates for the Professorship of Natural History and Geology". In your resolution prescribing the subjects to be taught in the School you specified the following; "Geology, Mineralogy and such branches of Natural History as the Board of Visitors may hereafter determine". Profoundly impressed with the importance to the University and the material interest of the State, of a judicious selection of this Professor; and being conscious that the subjects to be taught were those that were less known by gentlemen of the average culture than almost any others taught in the institution; your Committee were naturally diffident of their ability to correctly appreciate the requirements necessary for such an appointee. This being the case they availed themselves of the informal permission granted by the Board at their called meeting of applying to the Faculty for their advice, such application was made by the Rector and Chairman of the Ex. Committee. A Committee was appointed by the Faculty and their report was considered and unanimously adopted at their December meeting. It is forwarded as a part of this report and your attention respectfully called to it. Your Committee have only considered the testimonials of practical Geologists and have alone investigated their qualifications. They have excluded from their investigations the qualifications of theoretical Geologists. First because the University has for thirty years taught by its Professors of Natural Philosophy a class in didactic Geology and Mineralogy. The well known capacity and conscientious devotion to duty of its two professors Rogers and Smith is ample guarantee that the science so far as it can be taught didactically has been successfully taught by them. Second, the present condition of the State, her poverty, the failure of her old industries and the necessity for new, when taken in connection with her rapidly increasing reputation for mineral wealth admonish us of the need of a more than didactical course on these subjects. Third, in common with all new studies the success of a Professor in securing a class is problematical. Had we a theorist alone he would be useful for nothing else but didactic teaching. While with a practical man who has won reputation in the field and and laboratory by geological surveys the University would be thrown in renewed and more intimate relations with the material interests of the State. Fourth, the University had the honor of inaugurating and partially completing the only Geological survey of the State worthy of the name, The Geological Survey of Virginia by Professor Rogers. It is most desirable that he should have the credit of its completion. This can only be done by a Field Geologist. For these reasons your Committee have thought that your intentions as shown when the chair was organized could only be carried out by a practical Geologist.

It seems to us obvious that only a Geologist who has won reputation among scientific men by work in the field and in the laboratory could be classed as such. We then have turned our attention to such alone and have given most weight to information that shows the success or failure of candidates in original research or in field work. Information that proves excellence in writings or lectures on Biology, Evolution and all similar speculative studies cognate to Geological Knowledge for practical uses have been regarded as of little worth either to carry out the original design of the donor or the intentions of the Board in the establishment of the Chair. In estimating the value of the testimonials and of such information as we may have obtained by by correspondence or otherwise have carefully weighed the sources. Have given most weight to the opinions of specialists and scientists of acknowledged reputation who are leaders in this branch of science and least weight to popular estimate and newspaper articles other than those of the Scientific periodicals. Placing the first as far ahead of ourselves in Knowledge of the subject and not recognizing the latter as more than equals. Of the candidates whose testimonials are before you there are five who rank high among scientific men, Messrs. Fontaine, Comstock, Kerr, Hitcock and Little. The three latter hold official rank as Geologists of States and have been or are now engaged in surveys of their respective States. Of these five from all the information that we have been able to get, Mr. Fontaine ranks highest. He commends himself most to us both as a Virginian, an alumnus and Master of Arts of the University, as a trained and successful teacher, as a Geologist who has won his reputation by his surveys of Virginia and as a man whose knowledge is progressive, whose last works scientists consider his best. It is useless for us to allude to his testimonials, they are before you for your consideration. Sufficient is it for us to say that our information derived from correspondence or otherwise more than justifies any commendation of him they may make. We cannot cease this subject without testifying our obligation to our Faculty individually and collectively for the valuable aid furnished us in our investigation. At your meeting in September, Professor Joseph Leconte's name was brought before you as possibly an available candidate. He was written to and invited to become a candidate, he held the matter under advisement, but finally in January declined to present his name.

At the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University-

Present- Messrs Conrad, Bocock, Gilmore, Hart, Marye, Randolph & Whitehead.

The Board was called to order by Mr. Marye, Rector pro tem.

A letter was read from the Rector, Mr. Stuart, stating that he continued to be too unwell to attend the meeting and that his physician had prohibited his doing so. Mr. Goode, it was announced upon information by letter from him, is prevented from being present by his official duties in Congress.

On motion the Board proceeded to consider the matters of business brought to its attention by the Annual reports of the Faculty and its Chairman, with the accompanying papers, submitted at the irregular meeting concluded on the 28th inst. and references made to the appropriate Committees for their consideration & report to the Board.

A letter, in which our Honored Rector, the Hon. A. H. H. Stuart, under date of the 28th inst. gives an account of the connection of W. W. Corcoran, Esq. with the question of selecting a suitable person to fill the chair of Natural History & Geology, recently endowed by him, having been produced and read before the Board.

On motion- The Board doth resolve, that having in their possession full and accurate information of the entire action taken by M. Corcoran as to the selection of the person to fill the said chair, deem it their duty to put on record their declaration, that all criticisms on unfavorable sentiments which have been expressed or felt in regard to the participation of Mr. Corcoran in this matter have been caused by misapprehension of the facts of the case, and that Mr. Corcoran is entitled to occupy the same high position of enlightened and disinterested liberality to the University which public opinion has heretofore with so much unanimity assigned him.

2\. Resolved that the circumstances seem to justify a renewed declaration on our part of our unshaken respect for Mr. Corcoran, and our undiminished gratitude for his noble and enlarged benefactions to this cherished Institution of Learning.

3\. Resolved, that the Secretary forward a copy of these resolutions to Mr. Corcoran.

Mr. G. F. Nicolassen submitted his application, forwarded through the Chairman of the Faculty, to be allowed a special examination at the beginning of the next session, which on being read and considered was on motion referred to the Faculty with the request that they report to the present meeting of the Board their recommendation in the premises.

At 4 P.M. the Board proceeded to consider the election of a Professor to fill the Chair of Natural History & Geology, in pursuance of its resolution of the 28th inst. and after such consideration Mr. Conrad moved that William M. Fontaine be elected Professor of the Corcoran School of Natural History and Geology in the University of Virginia, which motion was seconded by Mr. Gilmore.

Whereupon William M. Fontaine was elected by the unanimous vote of the Visitors present, viz- Messrs Bocock, Gilmore, Hart, Marye, Randolph & Whitehead.

Resolved, that the Secretary inform Mr. Fontaine of his election, by letter.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet at 9 A.M. on the 3d proximo.

The Committee on the Library respectfully report that upon a personal inspection of the Library, they find the Books well preserved, and the cases and other furniture in good condition. The judicious plan persued both as to the classification and cataloguing of the books, maps, engravings &c renders the access to and use of the Library convenient and agreeable.

In regard to the matters specially mentioned in the report of the Faculty, the Committee recommend as follows.

I. That the concession proposed by the Faculty as to the use of the Library by certain persons during the vacation be ordered on the terms suggested. And the Committee further recommend that the use of the Library be granted to such persons as are now on who have heretofore been members of the Board of Visitors who are residents in the vicinity of the University.

II. That the disposition by sale of imperfect books, odd volumes, duplicate sets, and useless books, be ordered, under the restrictions and terms proposed by the Faculty.

III. That hereafter the income annually received from the fund contributed by President Madison for the benefit of the Library be specifically designated in the appropriations made each year for the Library, as "The Madison donation."

IV. In regard to the enlargement of the appropriation for the Library, the Committee, while duly sensible of the great desirableness thereof, can furnish us information to aid the Board in its conclusions which is not already possessed by other members.

V. The Committee recommends that the Board place on its Records an appropriate testimonial as to the long and faithful services rendered as Librarian by William Wertenbaker, Esqr. The deep symathy of its members in his bodily afflictions, and that the existing salary allowed him be continued to him during the residue of his life. And in view of the increased labors imposed upon the Assistant Librarian, F. W. Page, Esq. by the disabilities of Mr. Wertenbaker, it is recommended that the sum of \_\_\_\_\_ be allowed to Mr. Page as compensation for the present fiscal year. The forms of orders to be entered in the above matters, in case the Board concurs in the foregoing recommendations, are herewith presented.

Upon the unanimous recommendation of the Executive Committee which was concurred in by a majority of the other members of the Board, viz. Messrs Goode, Gilmore & Hart, and communicated to the Secretary in writing some days prior to this date, the meeting to be held on this day in pursuance of the adjournment on the 12th of September last was by consent, postponed to the 27th day of June next, and notice thereof forwarded by the Secretary to each member of the Board prior to this date.

The Board of Visitors this day met in pursuance of the postponement from the 4th of February last.

Present Messrs Conrad, Gilmore, Marye, Randolph and Whitehead.

On motion Mr. Marye was chosen Rector pro temp., in the absence of the Rector, who thereupon called the Board to order.

A communication was received from the Rector, Mr. Stuart, stating that he was prevented by sickness from being present at this meeting.

On motion the Secretary was requested to inform Prof. Harrison, Chairman of the Faculty, that the Board were in session and ready to receive the Faculty report and any other matters to be submitted for consideration, which being communicated by the Secretary to Prof. Harrison, he appeared before the Board and submitted the Annual report of the Faculty with the usual accompanying reports of the Proctor &c, and other papers- which were received by the Rector pro tem. and laid before the Board.

The Rector pro tem. on motion proceeded with the reading of the Faculty report, which being concluded, On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 9 A.M.

Your Committee have the honor to make the following report of their transactions for the past year: Your Committee authorized Dr. J. F. Harrison to expend sixty dollars in the purchase of instruments necessary for the instruction of his class. A petition largely signed by students requesting that the ordinance in reference to board should be so amended as to permit them to change their boarding houses without requiring them to give up their rooms. We referred their application to the Faculty who advised that no change should be made in the ordinance; we therefore declined to accede to their request.

The President of the U.S. appointed Professor J. L. Cabell a member of the National Board of Health. Your Committee having satisfied themselves that his class would not suffer, authorized his acceptance. He was subsequently appointed by the Board of Health their President. This compliment to our distinguished Professor was well deserved and highly honorable to the University. In April your Committee requested Dr. Cabell to attend the meeting of the National Medical Association at Atlanta and thus authorized his absence. In May last Professor Ward wrote to the Chairman of the Faculty offering to furnish the cases for the Botanical Museum at a cost of seven hundred and fifty dollars. Your Committee authorized the Chairman to request Professor Ward to proceed to have the cases made and to inform him that the amount would be paid on their delivery.

At your called meeting in September last you requested your Executive Committee "by correspondence or otherwise to collect such information as they could in regard to the qualifications of the candidates for the Professorship of Natural History and Geology". In your resolution prescribing the subjects to be taught in the School you specified the following; "Geology, Mineralogy and such branches of Natural History as the Board of Visitors may hereafter determine". Profoundly impressed with the importance to the University and the material interest of the State, of a judicious selection of this Professor; and being conscious that the subjects to be taught were those that were less known by gentlemen of the average culture than almost any others taught in the institution; your Committee were naturally diffident of their ability to correctly appreciate the requirements necessary for such an appointee. This being the case they availed themselves of the informal permission granted by the Board at their called meeting of applying to the Faculty for their advice, such application was made by the Rector and Chairman of the Ex. Committee. A Committee was appointed by the Faculty and their report was considered and unanimously adopted at their December meeting. It is forwarded as a part of this report and your attention respectfully called to it. Your Committee have only considered the testimonials of practical Geologists and have alone investigated their qualifications. They have excluded from their investigations the qualifications of theoretical Geologists. First because the University has for thirty years taught by its Professors of Natural Philosophy a class in didactic Geology and Mineralogy. The well known capacity and conscientious devotion to duty of its two professors Rogers and Smith is ample guarantee that the science so far as it can be taught didactically has been successfully taught by them. Second, the present condition of the State, her poverty, the failure of her old industries and the necessity for new, when taken in connection with her rapidly increasing reputation for mineral wealth admonish us of the need of a more than didactical course on these subjects. Third, in common with all new studies the success of a Professor in securing a class is problematical. Had we a theorist alone he would be useful for nothing else but didactic teaching. While with a practical man who has won reputation in the field and and laboratory by geological surveys the University would be thrown in renewed and more intimate relations with the material interests of the State. Fourth, the University had the honor of inaugurating and partially completing the only Geological survey of the State worthy of the name, The Geological Survey of Virginia by Professor Rogers. It is most desirable that he should have the credit of its completion. This can only be done by a Field Geologist. For these reasons your Committee have thought that your intentions as shown when the chair was organized could only be carried out by a practical Geologist.

It seems to us obvious that only a Geologist who has won reputation among scientific men by work in the field and in the laboratory could be classed as such. We then have turned our attention to such alone and have given most weight to information that shows the success or failure of candidates in original research or in field work. Information that proves excellence in writings or lectures on Biology, Evolution and all similar speculative studies cognate to Geological Knowledge for practical uses have been regarded as of little worth either to carry out the original design of the donor or the intentions of the Board in the establishment of the Chair. In estimating the value of the testimonials and of such information as we may have obtained by by correspondence or otherwise have carefully weighed the sources. Have given most weight to the opinions of specialists and scientists of acknowledged reputation who are leaders in this branch of science and least weight to popular estimate and newspaper articles other than those of the Scientific periodicals. Placing the first as far ahead of ourselves in Knowledge of the subject and not recognizing the latter as more than equals. Of the candidates whose testimonials are before you there are five who rank high among scientific men, Messrs. Fontaine, Comstock, Kerr, Hitcock and Little. The three latter hold official rank as Geologists of States and have been or are now engaged in surveys of their respective States. Of these five from all the information that we have been able to get, Mr. Fontaine ranks highest. He commends himself most to us both as a Virginian, an alumnus and Master of Arts of the University, as a trained and successful teacher, as a Geologist who has won his reputation by his surveys of Virginia and as a man whose knowledge is progressive, whose last works scientists consider his best. It is useless for us to allude to his testimonials, they are before you for your consideration. Sufficient is it for us to say that our information derived from correspondence or otherwise more than justifies any commendation of him they may make. We cannot cease this subject without testifying our obligation to our Faculty individually and collectively for the valuable aid furnished us in our investigation. At your meeting in September, Professor Joseph Leconte's name was brought before you as possibly an available candidate. He was written to and invited to become a candidate, he held the matter under advisement, but finally in January declined to present his name.

At the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University-

Present- Messrs Conrad, Bocock, Gilmore, Hart, Marye, Randolph & Whitehead.

The Board was called to order by Mr. Marye, Rector pro tem.

A letter was read from the Rector, Mr. Stuart, stating that he continued to be too unwell to attend the meeting and that his physician had prohibited his doing so. Mr. Goode, it was announced upon information by letter from him, is prevented from being present by his official duties in Congress.

On motion the Board proceeded to consider the matters of business brought to its attention by the Annual reports of the Faculty and its Chairman, with the accompanying papers, submitted at the irregular meeting concluded on the 28th inst. and references made to the appropriate Committees for their consideration & report to the Board.

A letter, in which our Honored Rector, the Hon. A. H. H. Stuart, under date of the 28th inst. gives an account of the connection of W. W. Corcoran, Esq. with the question of selecting a suitable person to fill the chair of Natural History & Geology, recently endowed by him, having been produced and read before the Board.

On motion- The Board doth resolve, that having in their possession full and accurate information of the entire action taken by M. Corcoran as to the selection of the person to fill the said chair, deem it their duty to put on record their declaration, that all criticisms on unfavorable sentiments which have been expressed or felt in regard to the participation of Mr. Corcoran in this matter have been caused by misapprehension of the facts of the case, and that Mr. Corcoran is entitled to occupy the same high position of enlightened and disinterested liberality to the University which public opinion has heretofore with so much unanimity assigned him.

2\. Resolved that the circumstances seem to justify a renewed declaration on our part of our unshaken respect for Mr. Corcoran, and our undiminished gratitude for his noble and enlarged benefactions to this cherished Institution of Learning.

3\. Resolved, that the Secretary forward a copy of these resolutions to Mr. Corcoran.

Mr. G. F. Nicolassen submitted his application, forwarded through the Chairman of the Faculty, to be allowed a special examination at the beginning of the next session, which on being read and considered was on motion referred to the Faculty with the request that they report to the present meeting of the Board their recommendation in the premises.

At 4 P.M. the Board proceeded to consider the election of a Professor to fill the Chair of Natural History & Geology, in pursuance of its resolution of the 28th inst. and after such consideration Mr. Conrad moved that William M. Fontaine be elected Professor of the Corcoran School of Natural History and Geology in the University of Virginia, which motion was seconded by Mr. Gilmore.

Whereupon William M. Fontaine was elected by the unanimous vote of the Visitors present, viz- Messrs Bocock, Gilmore, Hart, Marye, Randolph & Whitehead.

Resolved, that the Secretary inform Mr. Fontaine of his election, by letter.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet at 9 A.M. on the 3d proximo.

The Committee on the Library respectfully report that upon a personal inspection of the Library, they find the Books well preserved, and the cases and other furniture in good condition. The judicious plan persued both as to the classification and cataloguing of the books, maps, engravings &c renders the access to and use of the Library convenient and agreeable.

In regard to the matters specially mentioned in the report of the Faculty, the Committee recommend as follows.

I. That the concession proposed by the Faculty as to the use of the Library by certain persons during the vacation be ordered on the terms suggested. And the Committee further recommend that the use of the Library be granted to such persons as are now on who have heretofore been members of the Board of Visitors who are residents in the vicinity of the University.

II. That the disposition by sale of imperfect books, odd volumes, duplicate sets, and useless books, be ordered, under the restrictions and terms proposed by the Faculty.

III. That hereafter the income annually received from the fund contributed by President Madison for the benefit of the Library be specifically designated in the appropriations made each year for the Library, as "The Madison donation."

IV. In regard to the enlargement of the appropriation for the Library, the Committee, while duly sensible of the great desirableness thereof, can furnish us information to aid the Board in its conclusions which is not already possessed by other members.

V. The Committee recommends that the Board place on its Records an appropriate testimonial as to the long and faithful services rendered as Librarian by William Wertenbaker, Esqr. The deep symathy of its members in his bodily afflictions, and that the existing salary allowed him be continued to him during the residue of his life. And in view of the increased labors imposed upon the Assistant Librarian, F. W. Page, Esq. by the disabilities of Mr. Wertenbaker, it is recommended that the sum of \_\_\_\_\_ be allowed to Mr. Page as compensation for the present fiscal year. The forms of orders to be entered in the above matters, in case the Board concurs in the foregoing recommendations, are herewith presented.