 TEI to HTML

Dr W. C. Dabney

of Charlottesville, Va

Dr E. R. Walker

Baltimore, Md

Dr H. B. Trist

Alexandria, Va

Dr A. F. A. King

Washington, D. C.

Dr J. Ford Trioleau

Charleston, S. C.

Dr James F. Harrison

University of Va

The Board of Visitors met here this day in pursuance of adjournment on the 1st day of July 1886.

Present. Hon. A. H. H. Stuart, Rector, Hon. John L. Marye, Dr W. C. N. Randolph, Hon. Holmes Conrad, Genl W. H. Payne, Wm A. Stuart, Esq, Dr R. W. Martin, Edward C. Venable, Esq and R. L. Parrish who was duly appointed and commissioned by the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia to fill the place of Genl James A Walker who declined to accept the appointment.

The Rector called the Board to order.

The Oath of Office having been taken by the several members of the Board the same was ordered to appear of record in the minutes of this meeting as follows:

"Virginia.

At a County Court held for the County of Alleghany, at the Court House thereof on, Tuesday, the 3d day of August 1886.

Robert L. Parrish, who has been duly appointed and commissioned by the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, a member of the Board of Visitors to the University of Virginia for the term ending February 28th 1888, this day appeared in Court and took and subscribed the oath of office and the anti-dueling oath required by law."

"Virginia.

In vacation. On the 4th day of August 1886, personally appeared before me, John M. White, Judge of the County Court of Albemarle County, Virginia, in my said county—Alex. H. H. Stuart, John L. Marye, W. C. N. Randolph, Holmes Conrad, W. H. Payne, W. A. Stuart, R. W. Martin and Edward C. Venable, Eight of the Visitors of the University, duly appointed and commissioned as such by the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia and severally took and subscribed the oath of office and the anti-dueling oath required by law."

Signed. John M. White."

Ordered, that the Secretary return to the County Court of Albemarle, the original of the foregoing certificate of Judge John M. White for record in that court.

The Board then on motion proceeded to canvass the applications and testimonials of the applicants for the vacant chair of Practice of Medicine, Obsteterics and Medical Jurisprudence in the University.

The following named gentlemen appeared to be applicants, viz

After the Board both heard read the applications and testimonials of the foregoing applicants on motion the Board then proceeded with the election of a professor of Practice of Medicine, Obstetrics & Medical Jurisprudence which resulted in the election of Dr Wm C. Dabney the vote being 8 for Dr Dabney and 1 for Dr E R. Walker on the calling of the roll.

On motion Resolved, that this Board ratify all of the proceedings of its meeting beginning on May 4th 1886 and also all of the proceedings of its annual meeting beginning on June 28th 1886.

Resolved, that Mr Parrish be placed upon all of the committees on which Genl Jas A. Walker's name appears as a member.

Resolved, that in regard to the recommendation of the Chairman of the Faculty as to the use of the Library Room for dancing, the Board deem it inexpedient to impose any restrictions beyond those prescribed in the resolution of this Board at its last meeting.

Resolved, 1 that, the faculty be requested to make a report to the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors not later than the 15th of October 1886, upon the arrangement of a Course of Pharmacy in the University and the granting of diplomas and degrees in same.

Resolved 2, that the Executive Committee be empowered to establish in the University a Course of Pharmacy.

Resolved 3, that proper advertisement of the establishment of the Course in Pharmacy in the University be made by the Executive Committee and that the sum of $50. be appropriated for the purpose in event of the establishment of the Course.

On motion Prof. Charles S. Venable was unanimously elected Chairman of the Faculty, and Prof. Wm M. Thornton Vice-Chairman.

The Executive Committee of the Board was Elected, consisting of Messrs Randolph, Marye, Venable & Parrish.

Resolved, that the Pavilion at present occupied by Dr Jas F. Harrison be assigned to Dr Wm C. Dabney, professor of Practice of Medicine, Obstetrics and Medical Jurisprudence.

Resolved, that a Committee of three members of the Board be appointed to prepare the Annual reports required by law to he returned to the 2nd Auditor.

On motion Messrs Conrad, Randolph and Payne were elected as said Committee.

1\. Resolved, that in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty, the Proctor be authorized and directed to exchange the old damaged bell on the Rotunda, for a new one of same size & pay the necessary difference out of any funds not already appropriated.

2\. Resolved, that the Proctor assume the care of the Cemetery on the University grounds.

Resolved, that the Proctor's house be supplied with coal and gas from the public supply of the University.

Ordered, that the Proctor pay to Professor Charles S. Venable the sum of One Hundred dollars in order to refund to him this amount advanced by him for the improvement of the Observatory grounds.

Resolved, that it is deemed inexpedient to take any action at this time in reference to Titled degrees as recommended by the Faculty.

Resolved, that the appropriation to supply Materia Medica material of the last meeting of the Board be made absolute.

Dr Randolph having offered a resolution granting to certain Professors of the University the privilege to deliver lectures to a class of females in the town of Charlottesville during the Session of the University. Resolved that the Board deem it inexpedient to adopt the resolution.

Resolved, that the petition of Messrs Oberdoffer, E. E. Dinwiddie and John A. Connell in reference to the property referred to in said petition as situated on University Avenue be referred to the Proctor, for inquiry by him into the facts and report thereon to the next meeting of the Board.

Resolved, that so much of the action of the Board taken at its last meeting as required that certain books in the Law, Chemical, Engineering and other departments be transferred from the Library to the rooms used by the Professors in the several departments respectively is modified so that such removal of the books is made permissive and within the discretion of the Faculty.

A communication from Professor Towles was received requesting leave of absence from March 21st to May 3d 1887 to enable him to deliver a course of Lectures at the University of Vermont. Upon consideration of it the Board are constrained to decline this request, deeming it injurious to the interests of the University that such diversion of the time and labor of a Professor from the duties of his chair shall occur.

Resolved, that the application of Prof. Page for permission to let out the Tile Machine of the University Experimental farm be granted.

It is ordered that the Professor of Agriculture in consultation with the Proctor and with the assent of the Executive Committee shall select from the lands of the University such lands not otherwise used and not less than twenty acres, as a grape and Pomological Experiment station. That as soon as a thousand dollars shall have been received from any source whatever, that the Professor of Agriculture shall commence to put in practical working such experiments in this branch of Agriculture as he may deem best, that as soon as sufficient money can be obtained he shall employ a practical gardner whose appointment is to be confirmed by the Executive Committee of this Board who shall take charge of the detail work of such an Experimental station, solely for experiments in the growth of grapes and fruits. That the freest access to such Experiments and their results be accorded to the Grape and Fruit Growers Association, and that copies of all reports be furnished them.

But nothing in this order is to be construed as inconsistent with the complete discretion and control reserved by the Board to revoke this grant of the use of said land, whenever in the judgment of the Board no useful result is being accomplished by said use.

Resolved, that the application of Mr Baker, the Librarian that he be allowed to occupy the house west of Dawson's Row, lately occupied by his predecessor Mr Winston, be granted, but without any expenditure for repairs.

Resolved that the Board now go into the election of Proctor and Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings of the University

Major Green Peyton was placed in nomination for the Office of Proctor & Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings and received a unanimous vote.

Resolved, that the Proctor be required to execute a bond in the penalty of $20,000 conditioned according to law, and that the said bond when properly executed with the same sureties as these bound in the bond this day accepted by the Board shall be presented to the Executive Committee the same shall be accepted.

The Executive Committee submitted the official bond of Major G. Peyton, Proctor and recommended its approval and acceptance by the Board. On motion the same was accepted and ordered to be spread upon the minutes which is now done as follows:

Know all men by these presents that we, Green Peyton, R. F. Mason & S. V. Southall are held and firmly bound to the Commonwealth of Virginia in the sum of Twenty thousand dollars to the payment whereof well and truly to be made to the said Commonwealth of Virginia, we bind ourselves and each of us, our and each of our heirs, Executors and Administrators, jointly and severally firmly by these presents. Sealed with our seals and dated this 22d day of July in the Year One thousand Eight hundred and Eighty-Six, and we hereby waive the benefits of our homestead exemptions as to this obligation.

The condition of the above obligation is such that whereas the above bound, Green Peyton, was on the 29th day of June 1886, duly elected by the Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia, Proctor and Superintendent of grounds and buildings of said University of Virginia to serve as such until his successor is qualified to enter upon the discharge of the duties of said office. Now if the said Green Peyton shall faithfully discharge the duties of his said office according to law then the above obligation to be void otherwise to remain in full force and virtue.

Signed G. Peyton G.P.

S. V. Southall Seal

R. F. Mason Seal

State of Virginia, County of Albemarle, to wit.

I, R. H. Wood a Notary Public for the State and County aforesaid do certify that R. F. Mason & S. V. Southall personally appeared before me in my county, and being duly sworn, made oath that after payment of their just debts, & those for which they are bound as security for others, & will probably have to pay, that their Estates are at least the sum of ten thousand dollars each. Given under my hand this 23d July 1886.

Signed. R. H. Wood N. P.

On motion the Board adjourned to the next annual meeting.

Alex' H. H. Stuart Rector.

Jas D. Jones, Secretary.

The Board of Visitors met here this day in pursuance of adjournment on the 1st day of July 1886.

Present. Hon. A. H. H. Stuart, Rector, Hon. John L. Marye, Dr W. C. N. Randolph, Hon. Holmes Conrad, Genl W. H. Payne, Wm A. Stuart, Esq, Dr R. W. Martin, Edward C. Venable, Esq and R. L. Parrish who was duly appointed and commissioned by the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia to fill the place of Genl James A Walker who declined to accept the appointment.

The Rector called the Board to order.

The Oath of Office having been taken by the several members of the Board the same was ordered to appear of record in the minutes of this meeting as follows:

"Virginia.

At a County Court held for the County of Alleghany, at the Court House thereof on, Tuesday, the 3d day of August 1886.

Robert L. Parrish, who has been duly appointed and commissioned by the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, a member of the Board of Visitors to the University of Virginia for the term ending February 28th 1888, this day appeared in Court and took and subscribed the oath of office and the anti-dueling oath required by law."

The Board of Visitors met here this day in pursuance of adjournment on the 1st day of July 1886.

Present. Hon. A. H. H. Stuart, Rector, Hon. John L. Marye, Dr W. C. N. Randolph, Hon. Holmes Conrad, Genl W. H. Payne, Wm A. Stuart, Esq, Dr R. W. Martin, Edward C. Venable, Esq and R. L. Parrish who was duly appointed and commissioned by the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia to fill the place of Genl James A Walker who declined to accept the appointment.

The Rector called the Board to order.

The Oath of Office having been taken by the several members of the Board the same was ordered to appear of record in the minutes of this meeting as follows:

"Virginia.

At a County Court held for the County of Alleghany, at the Court House thereof on, Tuesday, the 3d day of August 1886.

Robert L. Parrish, who has been duly appointed and commissioned by the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, a member of the Board of Visitors to the University of Virginia for the term ending February 28th 1888, this day appeared in Court and took and subscribed the oath of office and the anti-dueling oath required by law."