 TEI to HTML

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on the 30th of June last.

Present. The Rector and all of the other members of the Board.

The meeting was called to order and the Secretary was requested to inform the Chairman of the Faculty that the Board was ready to receive any communications he might have for its consideration. The Chairman of the Faculty was notified accordingly and thereupon forwarded to the Board the following communications.

The applications and testimonials of the following applicants for the chair of Greek:

Profr. J. R. S. Sterrett

Profr. G. F. Nicolossen

Profr. Geo. B. Maclellan

Profr. Charles A. Doubleday

Profr. W. J. Rivers.

A number of letters were also laid before the Board from friends of Profr. M. W. Humphreys of the University of Texas urging his election, though no application by Profr. Humphreys himself was filed. The chairman also presented several petitions, etc.

The Board then proceeded to canvass the claims of the various persons whose names were before them for the Chair of Greek and after hearing read the testimonials laid before them, on motion the election was proceeded with by viva voce vote and resulted in the election of Prof. M. W. Humphreys of the University of Texas, by a unanimous vote.

On motion the Secretary was instructed to communicate the fact to Prof. Humphreys.

On motion, resolved, that Mr Bohannon's salary be restored to $1500.

Resolved, that the commutation of rent for Professors' houses be for five Professors' houses instead of four.

Resolved that the subject of Botany be reassigned for the present to the School of Natural History & Geology.

Resolved, that the regulation in reference to Boarding Houses be amended to read as follows:

Students occupying rooms assigned to the University Boarding Houses, may with the consent of the Chairman change their boarding house at the end of any month without change of room, but in all cases must employ the servant of the Boarding House to which the room is assigned.

The communication of Profr Dunnington in regard to adding a story of wood on one of the backbuildings of his lot, was referred to the Committee of Grounds, Buildings, etc. who reported the following resolution which was approved & adopted:

Resolved, that the request of Profr Dunnington be declined, for the reason that this Board cannot consent to the erection of frame buildings in such close proximity to the University buildings.

Resolved, that Profr Perkinson be permitted to enter such classes in the University as a student as may be in the line of his work, and as will not in any way interfere with his duties as assistant professor of Modern Languages.

Resolved, that the propriety of renting the dormitories during the vacation to students or others be referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings, etc.

It being suggested to the Board that the occupation of the University dormitories during the summer months by summer classes, may endanger the health of the place,

Resolved, that the Executive Committee, examine into and report upon this subject to a special meeting of this Board to be called by said Executive Committee, if said Committee deem a special meeting necessary.

The following communication addressed by Profr M. Schele De Vere to the Rector was by the latter laid before the Board:

"You will have seen from my letter addressed to you and the Board on July 2d how gratefully I appreciate the considerate courtesy with which you have been pleased to treat me at your last meeting. A trifling accident, however, has since led me to ask an additional favor at your hands, which I am sure your keen sense of justice will not deny me. It is this: In the first copy of the resolutions concerning me, the Secretary had said. \`Your testimonials have removed'. Subsequently a change was made, so as to make the line read: \`have largely removed,' implying that the impression of inefficiency on your minds was to a certain degree, still resting there. This is very grievous to me. I had surely thought that the testimonials I had laid before you would entirely remove any such impression. As this has unfortunately not been done, I think you will not blame me if I most respectfully request to be informed of the charges brought against me, and of the persons by whom they are brought forward. \`Audiatur et altera pars' is a rule which seems to apply to this case also. I have so far abstained from asking any questions, although this reduced me to act in the dark, and defend myself against unknown adversaries. But now, I am naturally, and I hope excusably, anxious to remove those painful impressions entirely, and to prove myself not unworthy in any way or degree of the generosity of the Board. I have the honor to be

Whereupon, on motion, said communication was referred to a special committee of three to consider the same, and recommend what action thereon should be taken by the Board.

The Rector appointed Messrs Randolph, Stuart, and Parrish as members of said committee.

On motion, the Rector was added to the Committee and requested to act as chairman of same.

The special Committee raised to consider the communication of Profr M. Schele DeVere to the Rector, made the following report in writing:

The Special Committee appointed to consider the communication addressed to the Rector by Professor M. Schele DeVere and to recommend what action thereon by the Board is proper beg leave to submit the following report:

The Committee have maturely considered the communication of Profr Schele. In it the Professor distinctly requests that the Board will inform him what were the sources of information upon which the Board heretofore passed a Resolution that the School of Modern Languages should be reorganized. The Professor asks "to be informed of the charges brought against me \[him\] and of the persons by whom they are brought forward." If, in the investigation made by the Board into the conduct of this school, any element affecting the moral character of the Professor had been introduced or considered by the Board, there might in such case, in the opinion of the Committee, be claimed to be a ground for acceding to the request of the Professor, to the extent only of informing him as to the character of the immorality charged, and the evidence produced on that head. But, inasmuch as no such element entered into the consideration of the Board, your Committee see no reason to say anything further on this branch of the subject.

The sole issue considered by the Board in this matter was as to the efficiency of the teaching work performed in the school.

The Committee are of the opinion that this Board can not perform with fidelity and success the delicate and very responsible work committed to it of maintaining efficiency in the conduct of the schools, if it concedes it to be an obligation or duty of the Board to make known the sources of its information to the Professor whose school is under investigation, or to any other person or tribunal. The function committed to the Board, in such case, is a most responsible, and painful one, and fraught in its exercise with the gravest consequences. It involves, on the one hand, the Professional reputation of the incumbent of the chair, on the other the welfare and the useful life of the University. The Board, if it performs this ardudous duty with fidelity, must approach and must conduct its work of investigation, with a tender and full recognition of the very serious consequences to the Professor, as well as with a due regard to the interests and claims of the University. It is obvious, that in obtaining the information needful for the guidance of the Board the latter must proceed with due circumspection and patient deliberation. It must vigilantly scrutinize the evidence obtained so as to be assured of the impartiality, integrity, intelligence, and competency, of its sources. It is also equally obvious that the greater part of the most valuable evidence accessible to the Board, in all such cases, comes to the Board under the seal and sanction of the strictest confidence, and that this obligation of confidence is exacted for reasons which will approve themselves to the judgment of all dispassionate minds who will maturely consider the subject. In the opinion of this Committee, the Board would commit an error fatal to the faithful and successful performance of the responsible trusts committed to it, if it assents to the proposition, that in investigations made as to the efficiency of the teaching work done in the schools and in the re-organization of the schools, the Board is bound to perform this work under the conditions and limitations which pertain to trials in the civil courts, and must inform the Professor whose school is under investigation of the complaints made as to his efficiency, and as to the sources of the evidence laid before the Board upon that subject.

Therefore, the Committee recommend, that the Board decline to accede to the request made in the communication of Profr Schele De Vere.

In regard to so much of the communication of Profr Schele as comments upon the terms "largely removed" in the Resolutions passed by the Board this Committee recommend that Profr Schele be informed that these terms were used by the Board advisedly and express correctly its judgment upon the subject.

John L. Marye, Chairman

W. C. N. Randolph

W. A. Stuart

R. L. Parrish

On motion the said Report was unanimously adopted, and the Secretary was directed to send a copy of the proceedings of the Board on this subject to Profr Schele.

The following resolution, "no. 3", appearing on page 91 \[79\] of this Book which was offered & ordered, at the last meeting, to lie over to this meeting, was taken up and considered and on motion the same was adopted, and is as follows:

Resolved, that when the house now occupied by Profr Wheeler, shall be vacated & that the same be assigned to Profr Venable unless he shall prefer his present location, and that Profr Wm M. Thornton be assigned whichever of the two houses may not be occupied by Prof. Venable.

On motion the Board adjourned.

Jno. L. Marye Rector

Teste, Jas D. Jones, Secretary.

"You will have seen from my letter addressed to you and the Board on July 2d how gratefully I appreciate the considerate courtesy with which you have been pleased to treat me at your last meeting. A trifling accident, however, has since led me to ask an additional favor at your hands, which I am sure your keen sense of justice will not deny me. It is this: In the first copy of the resolutions concerning me, the Secretary had said. \`Your testimonials have removed'. Subsequently a change was made, so as to make the line read: \`have largely removed,' implying that the impression of inefficiency on your minds was to a certain degree, still resting there. This is very grievous to me. I had surely thought that the testimonials I had laid before you would entirely remove any such impression. As this has unfortunately not been done, I think you will not blame me if I most respectfully request to be informed of the charges brought against me, and of the persons by whom they are brought forward. \`Audiatur et altera pars' is a rule which seems to apply to this case also. I have so far abstained from asking any questions, although this reduced me to act in the dark, and defend myself against unknown adversaries. But now, I am naturally, and I hope excusably, anxious to remove those painful impressions entirely, and to prove myself not unworthy in any way or degree of the generosity of the Board. I have the honor to be

"You will have seen from my letter addressed to you and the Board on July 2d how gratefully I appreciate the considerate courtesy with which you have been pleased to treat me at your last meeting. A trifling accident, however, has since led me to ask an additional favor at your hands, which I am sure your keen sense of justice will not deny me. It is this: In the first copy of the resolutions concerning me, the Secretary had said. \`Your testimonials have removed'. Subsequently a change was made, so as to make the line read: \`have largely removed,' implying that the impression of inefficiency on your minds was to a certain degree, still resting there. This is very grievous to me. I had surely thought that the testimonials I had laid before you would entirely remove any such impression. As this has unfortunately not been done, I think you will not blame me if I most respectfully request to be informed of the charges brought against me, and of the persons by whom they are brought forward. \`Audiatur et altera pars' is a rule which seems to apply to this case also. I have so far abstained from asking any questions, although this reduced me to act in the dark, and defend myself against unknown adversaries. But now, I am naturally, and I hope excusably, anxious to remove those painful impressions entirely, and to prove myself not unworthy in any way or degree of the generosity of the Board. I have the honor to be