 TEI to HTML

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held at the call of the Rector on this day.

Present. Messrs Marye, Rector, & Conrad, Venable, Martin, Noland and Parrish, the remaining members being unavoidably absent.

The Rector called the meeting to order and stated the object of the call to be to endeavour to come to an understanding with the Miller Board of Trustees as to some appropriate mode for the final settlement of all differences of opinion between the two Boards as to their respective rights and duties as to the control and application of the income of the Miller fund.

Prof. Venable Chairman of the Faculty having been invited to present any matters he might have for the consideration of the Board, appeared in the meeting and presented a petion \[petition\] from the Medical Board in charge of the Infirmary together with other papers.

The Board being informed by the Medical Board in charge of the Infirmary of the urgent need for new furniture & equipment to re-place worn out material in the Infirmary, it is ordered that three hundred dollars be appropriated for this purpose to be paid by the Proctor to said Medical Board.

Ordered that seventy two dollars be appropriated to defray the expenses of four hundred copies of the Virginia Medical Journal containing the address delivered by Dr Barringer of North Carolina at the Inauguration of the New Anatomical Hall.

The Rector having informed the Board that James W. Austin, esqr surviving trustee under the will of Arthur W. Austin decd hath in the exercise of the power granted in said will seld to Leopold Morse certain of the real estate embraced in said will. And Mr Morse desires that the Rector and Visitors of the University shall by deed executed by it release and quit claim to him its right, title and interest in and to said property, and whereas in the opinion of this Board it has no right, title or interest under said will, in said property but that the trustee under the will has full and exclusive power to sell and convey the same. Yet in deference to the wishes of Mr Morse and to prevent needless delay in the execution of the Trust: Resolved, that the Rector be authorized and directed, for and in the name of the Rector and Visitors of the University to execute and deliver to Mr Morse a deed releasing and quitting claim to the real estate referred to.

Ordered, that application be made to the General Assembly to amend section six of Chapter Eighty of the Code of Virginia (Edition of 1873) by enacting the following bill: A bill to amend and reenact section six of Chapter 80 of the Code of Virginia edition of 1873:

"Be it enacted by the General Assembly that Section 6 of Chapter 80 of the Code of Virginia edition of 1873 be amended and reenacted so as to read as follows:

6\. The said Board shall be charged with the care and preservation of all the property belonging to the University. They shall appoint as many Professors as they deem proper, and, with the assent of two thirds of the whole number of the Visitors, may remove any Professor. They may prescribe the duties of each Professor, and the course and mode of instruction. They may receive, invest, manage, and control all gifts, devises, and bequests made to the University, and may, either by arbitration or suit, settle any question that may arise in relation to such gifts, devises, or bequests, and commute into money, upon such terms as they may deem best, any such gift, devise, or bequest, taking effect in futuro. They may appoint a Bursar and Proctor, and employ any other agents or servants, regulate the government and discipline of the students, and the renting of the hotels and dormitories, and generally, in respect to the government and management of the University, make such regulations as they may deem expedient, not being contrary to law. To enable the Rector and Visitors of the University to procure a supply of water for the University, they shall have authority to acquire such springs, lands and rights of way as may be necessary, according to the provisions of Chapter fifty six."

A report was received from the Chairman of the Faculty with papers accompanying which were read and considered.

In compliance with a request of the Ladies' Hospital Association of Charlottesville & the University, and the recommendation of the Chairman of the Faculty,

Resolved, that the temporary frame building, heretofore used by the Prof. of Anatomy be turned over to the Medical Faculty of the University, to be used in connection with the Charlottesville Hospital as in their judgment may be advisable.

It appearing that a Manakin is needed by the Professor of Obstetrics in giving instruction to his class,

Resolved, that the Professor is hereby authorized to purchase a Manakin not to exceed in price $150.

Resolved, that the Chairman of the Faculty be instructed to invite by proper advertisement applications from candidates for the School of Biology and Agriculture in the Department of Experimental and Practical Agriculture to be elected at the regular meeting of the Board in June 1888.

Resolved that the Faculty be authorized to employ a teacher of Gymnastics to be paid in fees by the students, regulated by the Faculty.

Resolved, that the Faculty are hereby authorized to purchase from the United States government through Mr N. H. R. Dawson not over one thousand copies of the Essay of Prof. Herbert B. Adams entitled "Jefferson & the University" at lowest possible cost.

Resolved, That the regulation heretofore existing under which the Purveyors have been charged fifty-five cents for each student in their mess, is hereby rescinded, and the fee fixed at thirty five cents.

Ordered, that the request of Prof. Towles for leave of absence from March the 20th to March the 30th be granted.

Ordered, that the sum of $3850 be appropriated to the purchase of an extension ladder, 2 spanners & 2 hose lifters, & 2 crutch poles for the use of the University Fire Company.

Resolved, that the Charlottesville and University of Virginia Electric Light & Gas Company be authorized to put up their wires on the University grounds at its own expense, and that the Faculty be authorized to contract monthly with said Company for such of said lights as the Faculty may deem proper for public uses until the first day of July next in lieu of gas provided that the cost of said lights shall not exceed the cost of gas.

On motion the Board adjourned.

Teste,

Jno. L. Marye Rector

Jas D. Jones, Secretary.