 TEI to HTML

Salaries of 19 Professors

$57,000.00

Asst Profr Ancient Languages

$ 600.

Asst Profr Modern Languages

800.

Asst Profr Natl Philosophy

600.

Asst Profr Mathematics

800.

2,800.00

Demonstrator of Anatomy

500.00

Chairman of Faculty

500.

Librarian & Sec'y to Faculty

750.

Proctor

2,000.

Sec'y Bd of Visitors

150.

Commr of Accts

100.

3,500.00

$63,800.00

Janitor

600.

Janitor Museum

180.

Chairman's Messenger

120.

Labor

1,000.

1,900.00

Interest & Sinking fund

7,220.

Repairs & Improvements

5,000.

Miller Scholarships

500.

Assistant

500.

Current Expenses

500.

1,500.

Library

500.

Observatory

1,610

Infirmary

2,177.81

4,287.81

Catalogues & other printing

1,000.

Printing blanks

150.

Diplomas

400.

Fuel & Lights

1,000.

1,400.

Commutation of rents of 5 Profrs

1,500.

Contingent Fund

1,200.

Chemical Supplies

100.

Anatomical Material

100.

Night Watchman

300.

Day Watchman

300.

800.

Insurance on New Dining Room etc.

120.

$89,877.81

The Board of Visitors met this the 11th of July 1888 pursuant to adjournment on the 27th inst.

Present. Hon. J. L. Marye, Rector, Randolph, Stuart, Bolling, Gordon, McCabe and Watts.

The Rector called the Board to order.

The subject of employing an Instructor in gymnastics was considered, whereupon on motion it was

Resolved, that the present financial condition of the University renders it inexpedient for the Board of Visitors to guarantee any salary to an Instructor of Gymnastics or to make any further appropriation to the Gymnasium.

Resolved, that, the Committee on finance be requested to visit the Proctor and examine and report to the Board what bonds and other evidences of debt due the University are in his hands and what indebtedness has been discharged by him in the last year and cancel all such evidences of indebtedness so paid off.

The Rector announced that the Miller Board was in session for the purpose of considering the nomination to this Board of a Professor of Biology and Agriculture in the Department of Experimental and Practical Agriculture and suggested the appointment of a Committee to wait upon that Board and inform them of the readiness of this Board to receive any communication from them they may wish to submit, whereupon on motion, Judge Bolling was appointed a Committee of one to convey this information to the Miller Board, who thereupon retired for that purpose and soon returned after having reported to the Miller Board as requested, and stated that he was requested by that Board to announce, that they would, in a very short time, report the result of their deliberations to this Board.

In a few minutes a Committee of the Miller Board appeared and announced the nomination of Profr Albert H. Tuttle of the State University of Ohio, for said professorship, by said Board, and submitted for the consideration of this Board, along with their nomination, the testimonials of the qualifications of Profr Tuttle which had been carefully read and weighed by them, before arriving at their decision.

The Committee then retired, and on motion, the Board proceeded to consider the nomination of Profr Tuttle and after reading the testimonials submitted by the Committee, it was moved and seconded, that the Board proceed to a vote on the nomination which was ordered and resulted unanimously in favor of the nominee, Profr Albert H. Tuttle.

On motion, the Secretary was instructed to notify Profr Tuttle of his election, and to request him to attend here, on the 25th inst. to be present at the meetings of the Miller Board, and of the Executive Committee of this Board, as agreed upon

On motion the Board adjourned to meet to-morrow at 9 1/2 A. M.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present. The same members as on yesterday, and Major Conrad in addition.

The Committee on Library, & Apparatus submitted its report of which the following is a copy:

To the Rector & Visitors,

Your Committee appointed to examine the condition of the Library etc., report that they have made the examination. A large and convenient space in the Library is now filled with books very rarely, if ever called for, —Such as Congressional Reports, old magazines etc., to the exclusion of books of general interest which are much more frequently used, and which should, in the opinion of Your Committee be given the room now occupied by the vast amount of books which nobody ever reads. It seems to Your Committee to be advisable to remove these unused books to one of the unoccupied rooms of the University, so that the space now filled with them can be made available for the Austin Library, one of the most attractive collections in the Library, and for other books of general interest which may be added from year to year.

Your Committee are of opinion that the arrangement of the books is not convenient and would suggest, that they should be arranged according to subjects, which has not been done, except to a very limited extent, by such a rearrangement and the removal of the Congressional records, which merely cumber the shelves, much valuable space could be saved, which is very important because of the very limited unoccupied space. They therefore recommend that these books be removed from the Library, and if it is impracticable to provide shelves for them in one of the unoccupied rooms, then the \[they?\] recommend that they be bosed up and catalogued and the boxes proper \[ly?\] labeled.

The report was read and considered and on motion the same was adopted together with its recommendations.

On motion,

Resolved, that, the Librarian be directed to remove from the Library the Mass of Congressional records now occupying space on the shelves, to one of the unoccupied rooms of the University, to be designated by the Proctor, and to so rearrange the books in the Library as to assign to a more convenient and appropriate position the Austin Collection of books.

A communication from Mrs Bürthe was received requesting permission to use a part of University grounds for garden purposes; On motion, Resolved, that the Proctor consider this request, and assign to Mrs Burthe for a garden so much of the said ground and in such locality as he shall deem judicious.

The petition of a large number of persons living near the University grounds, asking that a road be opened through the grounds was presented to the Board and duly considered. Whereupon on motion, the Board disapproved and denied the petition, and directed the Proctor to report forthwith to this Board whether, in his judgment, any, and if so what further facilities of access to the grounds of the University may be granted consistently with the due protection of the interests of the University.

The Proctor reported in obedience to the foregoing order, which report is as follows:

In reply to the request of various parties to open a thoroughfare from the Lynchburg road through the grounds of the University of Va, I beg leave to recommend that the East Range Road be extended to said Lynchburg road for public use temporarily. Such road to be closed at any period when it may be deemed by the Board or the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings to be detrimental to the interests of the University.

The report was read & considered by the Board whereupon, the same was approved & adopted together with its recommendations.

Resolved, that, W. P. Mayo be appointed purveyor for the Mess clubs of the University for the coming year.

The following in reference to Dr Cabell was adopted unanimously.

The Board being informed that the health of Professor James L. Cabell is delicate, and that he feels apprehensive that he may not have physical strength sufficient to perform efficiently all the duties of his chair, it was unanimously resolved,

That, the Board learns with profound regret of the physical infirmities of Profr Cabell and being convinced that the interests of the University require that Profr Cabell should continue to perform such part of the duties of his chair as his health will permit, the Board both authorize and request Dr Cabell, whenever he deems it best so to do, to select and appoint an Assistant Instructor in his school, and to assign to such assistant such duties as he thinks proper so as to relieve himself of some of the burdens of his school, and to do such part of the work as he shall find himself able to perform, the compensation of this assistant to be paid by Dr Cabell out of his salary.

On motion it was,

Resolved, that, the Proctor loan to Profr Seamon of the Miller Manual Labor School the cases in the Old Agricultural Lecture room, on the conditions set forth by Profr Seamon in his communication.

On motion the Board proceeded to elect a Chairman of the Faculty, which resulted in the election of Profr Wm M. Thornton.

On motion the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, that, the Chairman of the Faculty be authorized to employ, at the expense of the University, F. W. Page as Secretary of the Chairman, at a salary of Five hundred dollars, to be paid out of any unappropriated moneys accruing hereafter.

The following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, that, the Board authorize the Charlottesville & University Electric Light & Gas Co. to place in each of the 180 dormitories of the University an Electric lamp of the candle-power of the Edison incandescent patern, and in order to reimburse said Company for the cost of placing said lamps, \[which the said Company has agreed with the Board shall be charged for at $450.00\] the Proctor is directed to charge and collect from each student occupying one of said rooms \[in whole or in part\] at the time of his matriculation the sum of one dollar for the privilege of using said lamp during the session, and the Proctor is directed to keep a separate account of the moneys so collected, and to pay it over to the said Company in reimbursement of said cost of $450. until that amount is fully paid to said Company.

Resolved, that the Board has not the time at this session to give due consideration to the communication from the Mayor of Charlottesville in reference to the water-works, and that the Board will consider this subject at its special meeting in November next.

On motion,

Resolved, that, the Executive Committee be authorized and requested to meet the Miller Board, on the 25th day of this month, and at such other time as they may appoint, and represent this Board in concerting measures, with the said Miller Board, for organizing, and equipping the Chair of Biology and Agriculture, recently filled by this Board.

The Committee on Finance submitted their report of appropriations, etc. for the ensuing fiscal year, which was read and considered and thereupon on motion approved & adopted together with its recommendations, and reads as follows:

The undersigned Committee on Finance respectfully report, That by reason of the reduction by the General Assembly of the amount heretofore appropriated, annually to the University, the receipts for the ensuing year will be curtailed $5000.

To prevent, in the future, the recurrence of such misfortune by ill considered legislation we recommend that the Rector be authorized and requested, whenever the interests of the University may be threatened in that quarter, to designate such members of the Board as he may see proper to appear before the appropriate Committee of the Legislature and do what may be proper to avert the mischief.

To avoid the misapprehension which has appeared to exist, as to the apparent balances remaining in the hands of the Proctor, at the close of the fiscal year on the 31st of May, we recommend that the accounts of the Proctor be brought down each year, and closed, on the 30th of June, each year.

Your Committee recommend that the application of Mr. B. L. Rex be granted on such terms as the Board may impose.

Your Committee have ascertained that the bequest for the establishment of the "Birely" Scholarship can not be made available for at least twelve months hence, and no compromise can now possibly be made by the Board for filling such Scholarship.

Your Committee recommend the following appropriations for the ensuing year:

Holmes Conrad,

Mason Gordon,

W. A. Stuart.

Resolved, that, in view of the circumstances affecting the finances of the University for the past fiscal year, the Board directs that the action of the Proctor in paying the sum of $3000. to each of the 18 full Professors as their compensation for the Session of 1887-1888. is approved and ratified.

Resolved, that out of the $5000. appropriated for repairs and improvements there be applied to erecting a new dining room for messing students on Carr's Hill, $1500.

It is ordered that a special session of this Board be held on the 21st day of November next at 4 P. M.

Ordered, that, the pavillion lately occupied by Profr John R. Page be assigned to Profr Albert H. Tuttle.

The Committee on Conduct of Schools & Examination of Students submitted its report as follows:

To the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia. Your Committee on the "Conduct of Schools & Examination of Students" begs leave to submit the following recommendations: First, the establishment of a general Academic Degree to be known as the Bachelor of Arts Degree, which all Academic students shall be required to take before proceeding to the higher degree of Master of Arts. The course of instruction for this B. A. degree shall be essentially different in scope from that provided for the M. A. degree, which latter, under the scheme now proposed, shall be given to such Academic students only as shall have given satisfactory evidence of having mastered some special line of study after taking the general \[B. A.\] degree.

The said general or B. A. degree shall be conferred upon students, who shall have obtained certificates of a "pass for the B. A. degree" from the Professors in the following subjects:

1\. Latin.

2\. Greek.

3\. Mathematics

4\. Practical Physics, \[answering to the present Junior Natural Philosophy\]

5\. One Teutonic Language.

6\. One Romance Language

7\. General Chemistry

8\. Logic & the History of Philosophy.

Your Committee recommends that the scope of instruction in the above subjects shall be such as shall give a good general knowledge of each, reserving the rigid requirements of specialistic training for the higher M. A. degree.

Such a degree ought to be attainable in two years by young men of fair preparation, of good ability & of steady industry, & Your Committee believes that the establishment of such a general degree, which all Academic students (aiming at a degree) shall be required to take, will attract students to the University, who are now repelled by the extreme difficulty of winning the M. A. degree, & that it will create, through "class feeling", a stronger sentiment of loyalty on the part of Academic students to their Alma Mater by reason of the common tie of Academic honors won in mass together. Second, that any student desirous of proceeding to the higher M. A. degree, shall pursue an advanced course of study & graduate in four subjects embraced in the list of studies prescribed for the B. A. degree, the grouping to be of cognate subjects as far as possible.

To illustrate (a) If a student desires to proceed M. A. in Letters, he shall pursue a course more adanced & Special than that required for the B. A. degree, & take diplomas in

1\. Latin.

2\. Greek.

3\. Moral Philosophy.

4\. One Teutonic &

One Romance Language

(b) If a student desires to proceed M. A. in Science he shall pursue advanced courses & take diplomas in

1\. Mathematics.

2\. Natural Philosophy.

3\. Applied Chemistry.

4\. Natural History, or

Biology.

(c) If a student desires to proceed M. A. in Philosophy, \[partly literary and partly scientific\], he shall pursue adanced courses & take diplomas in

1\. Latin.

2\. Greek.

3\. Moral Philosophy or

One Teutonic and

One Romance Language.

4\. Mathematics

or

Natural Philosophy.

The combinations possible are multitudinous, & the schemes given above are merely meant to indicate the general scope of the reform proposed.

Finally, Your Committee recommends that the present M. A. degree be left as it is, open to such students as may aspire to a specialistic training in all directions. All of which is respectfully submitted.

W. Gordon McCabe, Chairman

Legh R. Watts

W. C. N. Randolph

On Motion of the Chairman of the Committee, the above Report was referred without action on the part of the Board of Visitors to the Faculty of the University for an expression of opinion as to the advisability of the proposed changes in the requirements for Academic degrees.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet again on the 21st of November next.

The Board of Visitors met this the 11th of July 1888 pursuant to adjournment on the 27th inst.

Present. Hon. J. L. Marye, Rector, Randolph, Stuart, Bolling, Gordon, McCabe and Watts.

The Rector called the Board to order.

The subject of employing an Instructor in gymnastics was considered, whereupon on motion it was

Resolved, that the present financial condition of the University renders it inexpedient for the Board of Visitors to guarantee any salary to an Instructor of Gymnastics or to make any further appropriation to the Gymnasium.

Resolved, that, the Committee on finance be requested to visit the Proctor and examine and report to the Board what bonds and other evidences of debt due the University are in his hands and what indebtedness has been discharged by him in the last year and cancel all such evidences of indebtedness so paid off.

The Rector announced that the Miller Board was in session for the purpose of considering the nomination to this Board of a Professor of Biology and Agriculture in the Department of Experimental and Practical Agriculture and suggested the appointment of a Committee to wait upon that Board and inform them of the readiness of this Board to receive any communication from them they may wish to submit, whereupon on motion, Judge Bolling was appointed a Committee of one to convey this information to the Miller Board, who thereupon retired for that purpose and soon returned after having reported to the Miller Board as requested, and stated that he was requested by that Board to announce, that they would, in a very short time, report the result of their deliberations to this Board.

In a few minutes a Committee of the Miller Board appeared and announced the nomination of Profr Albert H. Tuttle of the State University of Ohio, for said professorship, by said Board, and submitted for the consideration of this Board, along with their nomination, the testimonials of the qualifications of Profr Tuttle which had been carefully read and weighed by them, before arriving at their decision.

The Committee then retired, and on motion, the Board proceeded to consider the nomination of Profr Tuttle and after reading the testimonials submitted by the Committee, it was moved and seconded, that the Board proceed to a vote on the nomination which was ordered and resulted unanimously in favor of the nominee, Profr Albert H. Tuttle.

On motion, the Secretary was instructed to notify Profr Tuttle of his election, and to request him to attend here, on the 25th inst. to be present at the meetings of the Miller Board, and of the Executive Committee of this Board, as agreed upon

On motion the Board adjourned to meet to-morrow at 9 1/2 A. M.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present. The same members as on yesterday, and Major Conrad in addition.

The Committee on Library, & Apparatus submitted its report of which the following is a copy:

To the Rector & Visitors,

Your Committee appointed to examine the condition of the Library etc., report that they have made the examination. A large and convenient space in the Library is now filled with books very rarely, if ever called for, —Such as Congressional Reports, old magazines etc., to the exclusion of books of general interest which are much more frequently used, and which should, in the opinion of Your Committee be given the room now occupied by the vast amount of books which nobody ever reads. It seems to Your Committee to be advisable to remove these unused books to one of the unoccupied rooms of the University, so that the space now filled with them can be made available for the Austin Library, one of the most attractive collections in the Library, and for other books of general interest which may be added from year to year.

Your Committee are of opinion that the arrangement of the books is not convenient and would suggest, that they should be arranged according to subjects, which has not been done, except to a very limited extent, by such a rearrangement and the removal of the Congressional records, which merely cumber the shelves, much valuable space could be saved, which is very important because of the very limited unoccupied space. They therefore recommend that these books be removed from the Library, and if it is impracticable to provide shelves for them in one of the unoccupied rooms, then the \[they?\] recommend that they be bosed up and catalogued and the boxes proper \[ly?\] labeled.

In reply to the request of various parties to open a thoroughfare from the Lynchburg road through the grounds of the University of Va, I beg leave to recommend that the East Range Road be extended to said Lynchburg road for public use temporarily. Such road to be closed at any period when it may be deemed by the Board or the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings to be detrimental to the interests of the University.

The Board of Visitors met this the 11th of July 1888 pursuant to adjournment on the 27th inst.

Present. Hon. J. L. Marye, Rector, Randolph, Stuart, Bolling, Gordon, McCabe and Watts.

The Rector called the Board to order.

The subject of employing an Instructor in gymnastics was considered, whereupon on motion it was

Resolved, that the present financial condition of the University renders it inexpedient for the Board of Visitors to guarantee any salary to an Instructor of Gymnastics or to make any further appropriation to the Gymnasium.

Resolved, that, the Committee on finance be requested to visit the Proctor and examine and report to the Board what bonds and other evidences of debt due the University are in his hands and what indebtedness has been discharged by him in the last year and cancel all such evidences of indebtedness so paid off.

The Rector announced that the Miller Board was in session for the purpose of considering the nomination to this Board of a Professor of Biology and Agriculture in the Department of Experimental and Practical Agriculture and suggested the appointment of a Committee to wait upon that Board and inform them of the readiness of this Board to receive any communication from them they may wish to submit, whereupon on motion, Judge Bolling was appointed a Committee of one to convey this information to the Miller Board, who thereupon retired for that purpose and soon returned after having reported to the Miller Board as requested, and stated that he was requested by that Board to announce, that they would, in a very short time, report the result of their deliberations to this Board.

In a few minutes a Committee of the Miller Board appeared and announced the nomination of Profr Albert H. Tuttle of the State University of Ohio, for said professorship, by said Board, and submitted for the consideration of this Board, along with their nomination, the testimonials of the qualifications of Profr Tuttle which had been carefully read and weighed by them, before arriving at their decision.

The Committee then retired, and on motion, the Board proceeded to consider the nomination of Profr Tuttle and after reading the testimonials submitted by the Committee, it was moved and seconded, that the Board proceed to a vote on the nomination which was ordered and resulted unanimously in favor of the nominee, Profr Albert H. Tuttle.

On motion, the Secretary was instructed to notify Profr Tuttle of his election, and to request him to attend here, on the 25th inst. to be present at the meetings of the Miller Board, and of the Executive Committee of this Board, as agreed upon

On motion the Board adjourned to meet to-morrow at 9 1/2 A. M.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present. The same members as on yesterday, and Major Conrad in addition.

The Committee on Library, & Apparatus submitted its report of which the following is a copy:

To the Rector & Visitors,

Your Committee appointed to examine the condition of the Library etc., report that they have made the examination. A large and convenient space in the Library is now filled with books very rarely, if ever called for, —Such as Congressional Reports, old magazines etc., to the exclusion of books of general interest which are much more frequently used, and which should, in the opinion of Your Committee be given the room now occupied by the vast amount of books which nobody ever reads. It seems to Your Committee to be advisable to remove these unused books to one of the unoccupied rooms of the University, so that the space now filled with them can be made available for the Austin Library, one of the most attractive collections in the Library, and for other books of general interest which may be added from year to year.

Your Committee are of opinion that the arrangement of the books is not convenient and would suggest, that they should be arranged according to subjects, which has not been done, except to a very limited extent, by such a rearrangement and the removal of the Congressional records, which merely cumber the shelves, much valuable space could be saved, which is very important because of the very limited unoccupied space. They therefore recommend that these books be removed from the Library, and if it is impracticable to provide shelves for them in one of the unoccupied rooms, then the \[they?\] recommend that they be bosed up and catalogued and the boxes proper \[ly?\] labeled.

In reply to the request of various parties to open a thoroughfare from the Lynchburg road through the grounds of the University of Va, I beg leave to recommend that the East Range Road be extended to said Lynchburg road for public use temporarily. Such road to be closed at any period when it may be deemed by the Board or the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings to be detrimental to the interests of the University.