 TEI to HTML

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on the 24th of November last.

Present, the Rector, Hon. John L. Marye, and Messrs Randolph, Stuart, Noland, McCabe, Bolling, Watts and Gordon—absent Mr Conrad.

Profr Thornton, chairman, presented the Faculty report, in which was embraced their report on changes in the Academic Degrees and their scheme of changes, submitted in compliance with the resolution adopted at the last meeting. The report was read and on motion the subjects presented were referred to the proper standing committees for their consideration and to be reported on to the Board.

Complaint having been made of the insufficiency of the water supply from the reservoir, at times in portions of the University grounds— On motion the following resolutions were adopted:

1\. Resolved that, W. C. N. Randolph and Mason Gordon, of the Visitors, with Profrs Smith and Thornton of the Faculty be appointed a Committee to confer with the authorities of the City of Charlottesville & to make satisfactory arrangements for such distribution of the water to which the University is entitled to have from the water works, as will remove the difficulties which at times prevent a good supply at necessary points on the University grounds.

2\. Resolved that, in the event no plan can be adopted agreeable alike to the authorities of the City and to the Committee, that the Committee be authorized to make such independent arrangements as they may deem necessary.

The Committee on Grounds and Buildings submitted their report which was read and on the recommendation of the report the following resolutions accompanying the same were on motion adopted.

1\. Resolved that, the plan submitted for the enlargement of the Dissecting Hall is hereby approved—and that the estimated cost thereof, to wit, the sum of Fifteen hundred dollars be appropriated, to be expended under the supervision of the Proctor.

2\. Resolved that, the Proctor proceed to improve the Medical Hall, by running a new stairway from the intermediate floor, to the upper floor of said Hall, and that he put the said upper floor in good condition for occupancy by the Professors of Medicine.

The petition of Mr Baker, Librarian, for an increase of his salary was read and considered:

On motion resolved that, the salary of the Librarian be increased $250. making his salary $1000. this increase to date from the beginning of the present session, 1888-89.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet to-morrow morning at 9 oclock.

University of Va Feb 9th 1889

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present. The same members as on yesterday with the exception of Dr Randolph.

A communication from Mrs Maria Jefferson Shine of the State of Florida, requesting that her son, Francis Epps Shine, be placed on the basis of a Virginia student as to tuition at the University, being laid before the Board and considered on motion, Resolved that the Board accord the desired privilege with pleasure.

Resolved that, the Professor of Latin be authorized to reestablish a class in intermediate Latin.

A letter from Benj. F. Brown, Esq, One of the Executors of Mrs E. H. Birely decd addressed to Major Peyton, Proctor, dated Decr 22d 1888 in which was inclosed a check for $3096.76 being a portion of the bequest of $5000. to the University by said testatrix, to found a scholarship, was laid before the Board. In this letter Mr Brown expresses the opinion that he and his Co-exer ought to be consulted in making appointments to said scholarship. On consideration whereof, on motion the following was addopted as the reply of the Board, and the secretary instructed to communicate a copy thereof to Mr Brown:

"The Board acknowledges with great pleasure your communication through the Proctor inclosing your check for $309676 the first payment on the legacy left the University of Virginia by the late Mrs E. H. Birely, and beg you will accept our thanks for same and to say that we shall be happy to receive any suggestions you may be pleased to make as to a suitable appointment to this scholarship before filling the place. You understand of course that no appointment can be made until the full amount of this legacy is paid in."

Dr. Randolph now present in his seat in the Bd.

On motion, resolved that, the changes in the course of instruction for the degree of C. E. as recommended by the report of the Faculty to this meeting of the Board, be approved and adopted.

On motion, Resolved that, Dr W. C. N. Randolph be instructed to communicate with Dr J. L. Cabell and to say to him that it is the request of the Board of Visitors that he will continue to occupy his pavilion during his pleasure and to add their hope that his life may be spared for a long time in its occupancy, and to say to him that they are moved to make this request not only out of a sense of their high personal and official regard for him, but also from a firm conviction that his continued residence in the precincts would subserve the best interests of the University.

On motion the Secretary was instructed to furnish Dr Cabell with a copy of the foregoing resolution.

The question of reorganizing the schools of Historical Science and Modern Languages being under consideration and discussion in order to test the sense of the Board upon the question Dr Randolph offered the following resolution

Resolved that, it is the sense of the Board that the Schools of Historical Science, and Modern Languages shall be reorganized.

Mr Stuart offered as an amendment. Provided that the action taken on the resolution shall be communicated to no one, until close of the present Session.

The amendment was defeated by a vote of 6 to 2, Messrs Stuart & Bolling voting for it.

The resolution was then adopted by a vote of 7 to 1, Mr Stuart voting in the negative.

Dr. Randolph then offered the following:

Resolved that, a committee of two shall be appointed by the Rector to suggest a plan of reorganizing said schools and as to salaries of professors and assistants. Mr Stuart moved to amend this resolution by adding. Provided that the action taken shall be communicated to no one, until the close of the session.

The amendment was defeated by a vote of 6 to 2, Messrs Stuart & Bolling voting for it.

The vote was then taken on the original resolution and the same was adopted by a vote of 7 to 1, Mr Stuart voting in the negative.

The Rector appointed the committee of two, under the foregoing resolution.

The Committee of two, to suggest a plan for the reorganization of the Schools of Historical Science and Modern Languages submitted their report in the form of communications addressed to Profrs Holmes & Schele respectively, and which read as follows:

Profr Geo. Fred'k Holmes,

Univ. of Va.

Dear Sir,

The Board of Visitors after long & mature deliberation has come to the decision that the efficiency of the School of Historical Science demands the appointment of an Adjunct Professor to assist you in the conduct of the chair.

The finances of the University imperatively demand that the appropriation for the conduct of your chair shall not exceed $3500., it becomes necessary to make the following apportionment of salaries:

The salary of the full professor (yourself) to be $2000. & a house, the said professor to teach Sociology & Political Economy. The salary of the Adjunct Professor to be $1500. said adjunct to teach General History.

This apportionment of salaries will not take effect until the beginning of the Session of 1889-90.

In making this communication we beg to add that we have the fullest sense of your distinguished services for many years in this institution.

Profr M. Schele Devere,

University of Virginia

Dear Sir,

After mature deliberation the Board of Visitors has come to the conclusion that the interests of the University demand that for the efficiency of the conduct of the school of Modern Languages the appointment of an Adjunct Professor to relieve you of a portion of the burdens of the chair after your many years of distinguished services.

The finances of the Univ. requiring that the appropropriation for the conduct of the chair shall not exceed $3500. it becomes necessary to make the following apportionment as regards salaries=

The salary of the full professor to be $2000. & a house.

The salary of the Adjunct to be $1500.

This apportionment of Salaries will not take effect until the beginning of the Session of 1889-90.

In making this communication, we beg leave to assure you that the Board has the fullest appreciation of your long & illustrious services.

The Committee accompanied its report with the following three resolutions.

1\. Resolved that, the report of the Committee is hereby approved and adopted.

2\. Resolved that, the Secretary forward forthwith to Profrs Schele and Holmes a copy of the communication intended for each of them.

3\. Resolved that, Mr. W. H. Perkinson is hereby appointed Assistant Professor of Modern Languages with a salary of $1500. per annum, this appointment to take effect July 1st 1889.

On motion the foregoing resolutions were considered separately in their order.

Mr Stuart proposed as an amendment to the first resolution the words. "Provided that the action taken in the resolution shall be communicated to no one, until the close of the present session."

The amendment was rejected by a vote of 6 to 2, Messrs Stuart and Bolling voting in the minority.

The original resolution was then adopted by a vote of 7 to 1, Mr Stuart voting in the negative.

The second resolution was adopted by a vote of 6 to 2, Mers Stuart & Bolling voting in the negative.

The third resolution electing Mr Perkinson Assistant Professor of Modern Languages was dopted by a unanimous vote.

The Board next proceeded with the election of the adjunct Professor of Historical Science as provided for by the report of the Committee.

Profr Richard Heath Dabney of the University of Indiana was placed in nomination, and elected by a unanimous vote to the chair of Adjunct Professor of Historical Science, to take effect at beginning of the session of 1889-90, at a salary of $1500. per annum, he to teach General History.

On motion the Secretary was instructed to communicate to Profrs Perkinson and Dabney information of their elections.

The Committee on the Conduct of Schools and the Examination of Students submitted to the Board through its Chairman, an outline of the plan agreed upon by the Committee, of changes in the Academic Degrees, which subject had been referred to them by the Board. In submitting the outline of the plan, the Chairman stated that it would require some time to prepare the full report, which he would do as soon as practicable after the adjournment of the Board, and forward the report to the Secretary to be spread upon the minutes—should the report as outlined meet with the approval and adoption of the Board.

It was moved and seconded that the report of the Committee as outlined be approved and adopted. Mr Stuart offered as a substitute for this motion the following.

Resolved that, the plan for the attainment of the Degree of Bachelor of Arts as outlined in the report of the Committee on the Conduct of Schools just presented, meets the approval of this Board; but will not be adopted at this meeting as a finality; but will be presented to the Faculty and their views asked thereon—with a view to final action at the next meeting of the Board.

The vote was taken on the substitute and it was rejected by a vote of 7 to 1, Mr. Stuart voting for it.

The original motion was then adopted, and on motion the request of the Chairman for further time to prepare the report in form, was concurred in by the Board, and the Secretary was instructed on rect of the report to enter the same of record.

\* On motion the Board adjourned.

Jas D. Jones, Secretary.

Jno. L. Marye Rector.

\* See Enactment on the two pages next following this, which should have come in here but was overlooked & not discovered until after the adjourning order was written

J. D. J. Secy \[Marginal Note\]

\*This belongs in the minutes of Feb. 9th 1889.

On motion the following recommendations of the Faculty in their report of the 8th of Feb 1889, in connection with the School of Biology & Agriculture, were adopted:

1\. Establishing two courses of study in the school, each comprising a Junior, Intermediate and Senior year. The Junior year is common to both courses, being preparatory to the advanced work of each. The courses are as follows.

Course in Biology and Agriculture.

Junior - General Biology.

Two lectures a week, with associated laboratory work.

Intermediate - Practical Biology, including Economic Botany and Zoology. Two lectures a week.

Senior - Theory and Principles of Agriculture. Two lectures a week

Course in Biology

Junior - General Biology.

Two lectures a week, with associated laboratory work

Intermediate - Zoology.

Two lectures a week, with associated laboratory work.

Senior - Comparative Anatomy.

Two lectures a week, with associated laboratory work.

That a Certificate of proficiency in General Biology (as recommended by the report in the title on Academic Degrees), be given on the completion of the Junior Course in that subject, and that diplomas of graduation in Biology and Agriculture and in Biology be given on the completion of the respective entire courses; the latter being substituted for the diplomas in Botany and Zoology hitherto given.

That in addition to the fee of twenty five dollars for tuition in the Academical Schools, charges for material be made as follows: in Junior Biology, ten dollars; in Intermediate and Senior Biology, twenty dollars each.

As students in certain courses other than those of this department are required to study Botany which here forms the latter half of the Course in General Biology, a fee for material of $5. be charged in such cases, in addition to the tuition fee of $15. already established.

Note The foregoing enactment, by oversight, was omitted to be copied before the adjourning order was written & the omission not discovered until after, hence it appears on these pages, & is one of the enactments of the 9th of Feb 1889.

Jas D. Jones, Secy.

Jno. L. Marye Rector

The following is the report of the Committee on the Conduct of Schools & Examination of students, touching Academic Degrees, & referred to in the minutes of the 9th of Feb. 1889, & was received by the Secretary from Captn McCabe, Chairman of the Committee, by the mail of 13th of Feb. 1889, and recorded in pursuance of resolution of the last meeting, as one of its enactments:

Feb 9th 1889.

To the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia. Your Committee on the "Conduct of Schools & Examination of Students", to which has been referred the Report of the Faculty, presented on yesterday, touching Academic Degrees, begs leave to report as follows.

The Committee recommends most heartily the adoption of as much of the Faculty's Report as advises the abolishment of the degrees of Bachelor of Letters, Bachelor of Science & Bachelor of Philosophy, leaving the degrees of Bachelor of Arts & Master of Arts (as at present constituted) the only undergraduate degrees of the Academic Department.

The Committee also approves the recommendation of the Faculty that the titled degree of Doctor of Philosophy be retained.

As regards the various courses of prescribed study submitted by the Faculty, the satisfactory completion of any one of which shall entitle a student to the degree of Bachelor of Arts, Your Committee after careful examination of these various schemes & the most mature consideration of the whole question, feels constrained to report adversely & to urge the rejection of that portion of the Faculty's Report.

The Committee is most reluctant to recommend the rejection of any Report touching Academic matters made by the Faculty, for whose ability, learning, & earnest devotion to their work & the interests of this University, they have the highest admiration.

But in a matter which we regard as of vital moment not only to the future growth of the University, but also to the development of general culture in Virginia & throughout the South, we feel it to be our solemn duty to urge upon the Board of Visitors, as we did in a former Report, that the requirements for the B. A. degree shall embrace a specified circle of such studies as are generally deemed most essential in laying a sound and sure foundation for a liberal education.

Such specific requirement was one of the fundamental ideas of the Report on Academic degrees submitted by Your Committee on July 11th, 1888, which Report, on motion of the Chairman of the Committee, was referred, without debate or action, to the Faculty of the University for their criticism or suggestion.

This idea appears to have been entirely ignored by the Faculty in their present Report, although all the courses prescribed for the B. A. degree during the past twenty years & more, have emphasized this requirement of satisfactory attainment in specified studies. Whether these courses emanated from the Faculty or not, Your Committee has not had the requisite time to ascertain, but it is to be presumed that they were suggested by them.

From 1865 to 1885, the requirements for the B. A. degree have been changed five times, an average of once in four years. Such repeated changes would appear to indicate that the requirements had not produced satisfactory results in making this Degree attractive to young men studying in the University, & the Board in full session has already heard from the lips of some of the ablest Professors in the University that the requirements now in force, & which have been in force for the past five years, imperatively demand, in their judgment, speedy revision.

Another recommendation made in our former Report, one which we then regarded, & still regard, as of paramount importance, was, that, given this prescribed course of studies (very nearly fixed) for this degree, the conduct of instruction should vary materially as to scope & method (in some of the studies, at least) from the specialistic training properly required for the higher or M. A. degree. The purpose in the instruction for the B. A. degree being to give a young man a sound general knowledge of the subjects taught, sufficient to form a basis for a liberal education, reserving the more rigid requirements of specialized study for candidates for the degree of Master of Arts.

On this point also the Report of the Faculty is silent.

Your Committee is of opinion that the B. A. degree has proved unattractive to young men, not from the fact that specific studies have been required (within the limit of ten schools), but because,

1st By retaining the old nomenclature of "graduate" & "proficient" (which terms have acquired here a fixed, technical meaning), comparison has been directly suggested with the more difficult requirements for the M. A. degree in the same line & scope of study, & thus indirectly a certain mark of depreciation has been put upon the B. A. degree.

It is a well known fact that, for many years, at least, the B. A. degree was regarded by the students as a sort of "consolation status" for men, who had failed in their efforts to attain the degree of M. A.; & thus, in time, there came to be a certain flavor of defeat about it, which caused it to be looked upon with disfavor, as marking rather an unsuccessful than a successful college career.

2nd The course of instruction in some of the required studies (if not all) seems to have for its end not so much a "good general survey" of the subject as rigid training on the line of specialized study; & the requirements for the present B. A. are satisfied if the candidate attains in his examinations a certain percentage of marks (lower than required for "graduation") or a smaller volume of the identical work set the student who desires the training of a specialist. He must be a "graduate" in some two (optional) of the ten "schools".

Your Committee believes that it would tend to make the B. A. degree popular with our brightest & most earnest young men, who do not desire to become specialists in any line of Academic Study or who may be unable to remain three or four years at the University to secure an Academic degree, (as at present constituted) if the following points were insisted upon in establishing the requirements for that degree

1st The scope & purpose of the instruction given in the subjects required for the degree to be such as shall have for its chief end a sound general knowledge of each subject.

2nd The old nomenclature of "Graduate" or "Proficient" to be dropped in regard to the rating of candidates for the B. A. degree, who pass successfully the "B. A. Examinations" in the subjects required, since these terms have now acquired a fixed technical meaning in regard to University work.

\[The Faculty can determine what is the best term to employ carrying the same meaning as "Pass-man" bears in the Universities of Oxford & Cambridge\].

"The B. A. examinations" shall be conducted entirely in writing & the standard shall be rigidly ¾ for a "satisfactory pass".

Thus much being understood, Your Committee respectfully recommends the following requirements for the B. A. degree, to take effect from the beginning of the Session of 1889-90.

A satisfactory acquaintance on the part of the candidate for the degree in the following subjects.

1\. Latin - \[with a maximum as to volume of translating Latin into English, a thorough course of Roman History & Roman Literature, weekly exercises in turning English into Latin & the minimum of syntactical requirement, so far as is compatible, in the judgment of the Professor, with a good knowledge of the Latin tongue\]

2\. Greek - \[Embracing the present requirements of the Junior & Intermediate classes in Greek, Greek Hist. & Literature, together with the reading of certain authors (to be selected by the Professor) now read in the Senior class\].

\[Option - In lieu of Greek, a candidate shall have the option of substituting Logic & the Hist. of Philosophy\]

3\. Mathematics - \[Embracing Pure Mathematics up to the Calculus (present Junior & Intermediate Math.\].

4\. Practical Physics - \[Embracing present Junior-Nat. Philosophy\]

5\. One Teutonic Language - \[English or German (& German Lit.)\]

6\. One Romance Language - \[French, Spanish or Italian, with course of Mod. Lit.\]

7\. General Chemistry - \[Amount of work determined by the Profr.\].

8\. General History - \[Amount of work determined by the Profr.\].

Your Committee believes that this course can be successfully completed in two years' time by young men, who come to the University well prepared.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on the 24th of November last.

Present, the Rector, Hon. John L. Marye, and Messrs Randolph, Stuart, Noland, McCabe, Bolling, Watts and Gordon—absent Mr Conrad.

Profr Thornton, chairman, presented the Faculty report, in which was embraced their report on changes in the Academic Degrees and their scheme of changes, submitted in compliance with the resolution adopted at the last meeting. The report was read and on motion the subjects presented were referred to the proper standing committees for their consideration and to be reported on to the Board.

Complaint having been made of the insufficiency of the water supply from the reservoir, at times in portions of the University grounds— On motion the following resolutions were adopted:

1\. Resolved that, W. C. N. Randolph and Mason Gordon, of the Visitors, with Profrs Smith and Thornton of the Faculty be appointed a Committee to confer with the authorities of the City of Charlottesville & to make satisfactory arrangements for such distribution of the water to which the University is entitled to have from the water works, as will remove the difficulties which at times prevent a good supply at necessary points on the University grounds.

2\. Resolved that, in the event no plan can be adopted agreeable alike to the authorities of the City and to the Committee, that the Committee be authorized to make such independent arrangements as they may deem necessary.

The Committee on Grounds and Buildings submitted their report which was read and on the recommendation of the report the following resolutions accompanying the same were on motion adopted.

1\. Resolved that, the plan submitted for the enlargement of the Dissecting Hall is hereby approved—and that the estimated cost thereof, to wit, the sum of Fifteen hundred dollars be appropriated, to be expended under the supervision of the Proctor.

2\. Resolved that, the Proctor proceed to improve the Medical Hall, by running a new stairway from the intermediate floor, to the upper floor of said Hall, and that he put the said upper floor in good condition for occupancy by the Professors of Medicine.

The petition of Mr Baker, Librarian, for an increase of his salary was read and considered:

On motion resolved that, the salary of the Librarian be increased $250. making his salary $1000. this increase to date from the beginning of the present session, 1888-89.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet to-morrow morning at 9 oclock.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on the 24th of November last.

Present, the Rector, Hon. John L. Marye, and Messrs Randolph, Stuart, Noland, McCabe, Bolling, Watts and Gordon—absent Mr Conrad.

Profr Thornton, chairman, presented the Faculty report, in which was embraced their report on changes in the Academic Degrees and their scheme of changes, submitted in compliance with the resolution adopted at the last meeting. The report was read and on motion the subjects presented were referred to the proper standing committees for their consideration and to be reported on to the Board.

Complaint having been made of the insufficiency of the water supply from the reservoir, at times in portions of the University grounds— On motion the following resolutions were adopted:

1\. Resolved that, W. C. N. Randolph and Mason Gordon, of the Visitors, with Profrs Smith and Thornton of the Faculty be appointed a Committee to confer with the authorities of the City of Charlottesville & to make satisfactory arrangements for such distribution of the water to which the University is entitled to have from the water works, as will remove the difficulties which at times prevent a good supply at necessary points on the University grounds.

2\. Resolved that, in the event no plan can be adopted agreeable alike to the authorities of the City and to the Committee, that the Committee be authorized to make such independent arrangements as they may deem necessary.

The Committee on Grounds and Buildings submitted their report which was read and on the recommendation of the report the following resolutions accompanying the same were on motion adopted.

1\. Resolved that, the plan submitted for the enlargement of the Dissecting Hall is hereby approved—and that the estimated cost thereof, to wit, the sum of Fifteen hundred dollars be appropriated, to be expended under the supervision of the Proctor.

2\. Resolved that, the Proctor proceed to improve the Medical Hall, by running a new stairway from the intermediate floor, to the upper floor of said Hall, and that he put the said upper floor in good condition for occupancy by the Professors of Medicine.

The petition of Mr Baker, Librarian, for an increase of his salary was read and considered:

On motion resolved that, the salary of the Librarian be increased $250. making his salary $1000. this increase to date from the beginning of the present session, 1888-89.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet to-morrow morning at 9 oclock.