 TEI to HTML

Dr Paul B. Barringer

of N. C.

Dr C. B. Nancrede

of Phila

Dr H. D. Bruns

of New Orleans.

Dr W. G. Eggleston

of Chicago.

Profr Tuttle's salary

$3000.

Profr Dunnington's salary

500.

Profr Thornton's salary

500.

To an assistant salary

600.

For enlarging library

400.

Additional Equipments for Profr Tuttle

500.

For scholarships

500.

Thirteen Professors Salaries

39,000

Profr of Agriculture & Chemistry

2,500

Profr of Applied Maths

2 500

Profr of Modern Languages

2 000.

Profr of Historical Science

2 000.

Adjunct Profr of Modern Languages

1 500.

Adjunct Profr of Hist. Science

1 500.

Assistant in Ancient Languages

900.

Assistant in Engineering

450.

Demonstrator of Anatomy

500.

53,650.

Chairman of the Faculty

500

Librarian & Secr'y of the Faculty

1 000.

Proctor & Supt Pub. grounds etc.

2 000.

Secretary of Chairman

500.

Secretary of Visitors

225

Commission of Accounts

150

4,375.

58,025.

Janitor & Plumber

600.

Janitor of Museum

180.

Chairman's Messenger

120.

Labor

1 000

1,900.

$59,925

Interest on the Sinking Fund

7,220.

Repairs & Improvements, of which $1500. goes to Anatomical Hall

5,000.

Library over & above the Corcoran & Gordon Funds

44.

Catalogue & other advertisements

1 000.

Printing Blanks

150.

Diplomas

400.

Fuel & Lights

1 000.

Commutation of rents for 5 Profrs

1 500.

Contingent Fund

1 500.

Night Watchman

300.

Day Watchman

300.

School of Chemistry

300.

School of Natural Phils

300.

School of Natural Hist & Geoly

50.

School of Engineering

50.

Instruction in Histology & Pathology

300.

Anatomical Material

125.

Medical Surgical Supplies

150.

Microscopical Supplies

25.

1 300.

Annual Charge on Maintenance of Reservoir

150.

Arrangement of Basement of Hall for Medical Students

50

Students reading room, if so much be necessary

200.

80,039.

At the annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors held on the 24th day of June 1889.

Present. Hon. John L. Marye, Rector and Messrs Randolph, Conrad, Noland, Gordon, McCabe and Bolling.

The Executive Committee submitted its report which was read and received & its acts approved.

A motion was made to make Assistant Profr Perkinson Adjunct Profr of Modern Languages which on motion was referred to the Committee on Conduct of Schools etc for its consideration and report thereon to the Board.

A communication was received from the ladies in regard to the "Old Bell" and the same was referred to the Committee on Grounds, Buildings etc. for consideration and report to the Board.

The portion of the Report of the Executive Committee in relation to granting leave to hold a session of the Hebrew Summer School at the University was referred to the Committee on Grounds, Buildings etc. for report.

Resolved that the young people be permitted to have the use of the Library room for the "German" on the 25th; but that this is not to be considered as a precedent for future action.

Judge Watts appeared and took his seat.

The Chairman of the Faculty Report with the documents referred to therein and other papers.

The Faculty Report was read and the following resolutions adopted in reference thereto.

1\. Resolved that the report of the Faculty in reference to the Medical Department be referred to the Committee on Conduct of Schools with permission to report at this or at the next meeting of the Board if it is desired to have a meeting in ninety days.

2\. Resolved that the portion referring to Academic Degrees be referred to the same Committee.

3\. Resolved that the different topics of the report not already referred, be referred to the proper Committees for report.

The Board having been informed that the Washington Society is in temporary embarrassment and that they can in a year return the amount necessary:

Resolved that the Proctor be directed to place to their credit one hundred & fifty dollars; provided they deposit their funds with him until the money is replaced.

The Annual Report of the Proctor was read and referred to the Finance Committee.

Mr McCabe moved that Dr Jas L. Cabell be invited to appear before the Board of Visitors to-morrow (Tuesday) at such hour as he may appoint, & give his views on the division of the chair of Physiology & Surgery.

Profr Thornton submitted a report in regard to the Department of Engineering and its needs which was read and on motion referred to the Committees on Conduct of Schools and on Finance.

Resolved that the Pavilion now occupied by Dr Cabell be assigned to Dr W. C. Dabney and that Dr Cabell be permitted to retain the pavilion and not make the transfer until it is convenient to him.

A communication was received from the Miller Board requesting that an Inventory be made and furnished that Board of the furniture and equipment purchased by Profr Tuttle with the $2500. appropriated for his Laboratory & Lecture Room, and of the furniture & equipment provided out of the $650. appropriated to be expended by the Proctor in finishing and preparing the Lecture Room for Profr Tuttle, in order that such Inventories may be held by the Miller Board as the evidence of the property held by that Board as part of the Miller Fund in accordance with the requirement of the third section of the Deed of Samuel Miller. Whereupon it was resolved that Profr Tuttle and the Proctor are instructed to make out said Inventories, and deliver the same to the Secretary of this Board who shall transmit them to the Secretary of the Miller Board.

An application was received from Adjunct Profr R. H. Dabney to be allowed the use of a Dormitory free of rent which was referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings.

An application was received from Mr C. C. Kidd to have a portion of his fees refunded to him which was referred to the Infirmary Committee.

An application was received from Dr Whitehead Asst Demonstrator of Anatomy for leave of absence from the University commencing Nov 15th next which was granted as requested.

Resolved that the Proctor shall pay to the Charlottesville Industrial & Land Improvement Company the sum of one hundred dollars for advertisement in the Washington Post of the University.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet to-morrow at 9 A. M.

Test

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present. The Rector and all of the Visitors, including Mr Stuart, who was absent on yesterday.

A communication was received from Dr Jas L. Cabell stating that he was too unwell to visit the Board as he was invited to do on yesterday.

Profr J. L. Cabell having informed the Board that the infirm condition of his health made it necessary in his judgment that he should resign his Professorship, and the Board having conferred with him on the subject, it was finally agreed by him in response to the earnest solicitation of the Board that he would not tender his resignation but would consent to accept an indefinite leave of absence from the duties of his chair, upon the basis that the Board should appoint an Adjunct Professor in the School who should perform all the duties and receive all the emoluments of the School.

On motion it was ordered that an indefinite leave of absence be granted to Profr J. L. Cabell from the duties of his school.

On motion it was ordered that the salary of the Adjunct Professor in the School of Physiology and Surgery be fixed at Three Thousand dollars, and that he shall perform all the work and duties of that school.

On motion the Board resolved to proceed with the election of the Adjunct Professor of Physiology and Surgery.

The following named gentlemen were applicants for this chair and their testimonials were before the Board.

After the reading to the Board of the testimonials of all of these gentlemen on motion all four of them were placed in nomination for the position and a viva voce vote taken which resulted in the unanimous choice of Dr Paul B. Barringer.

On motion the Secretary was instructed to inform Dr Barringer of his election.

Resolved that such part of the Faculty report in regard to radical changes in the organization of the Medical Department be laid on the table and the Faculty be informed that the Board is not disposed to make any radical changes but that they are disposed when the subject has been fully discussed to pay especial attention to this department with the view of enlarging its facilities for didactic, and clinical instruction; but the latter only as an adjunct and subordinate to its theoretical teaching.

The Miller Board reported through its secretary that the following resolution (of which a copy was furnished) as the action of that Board

"Resolved that the sum of six hundred dollars is hereby appropriated to employ an Assistant to the Profr Biology & Agriculture for the Session beginning Oct 1st 1889, said Assistant to be nominated by this Board & elected by the Board of Visitors."

On motion the foregoing resolution was concurred in and the Secretary instructed to notify the Miller Board of the fact.

The Infirmary Committee submitted its report which reads as follows

The undersigned the Com. on Infirmary etc. to whom was referred the application of C. C. Kidd to refund to him a portion of the deposit made by him as a student for the present session, beg leave to report that after due consideration of the subject & in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty they suggest the adoption of the following resolution.

Resolved that the Proctor be directed to refund to Mr. C. C. Kidd the one half of the amount he deposited at the commencement of this session.

The report & its recommendation was approved & adopted.

Application of Profr Garnett to have assigned to him Prof W. C. Dabney's pavilion referred to the Commee on Grounds & Buildings.

On motion it was referred to the Executive Committee to receive and act upon the nomination to be made by the Miller Board of the Assistant to the Profr of Biology and Agriculture as contemplated by the resolution of that Board and concurred in by this Board. The time and place of meeting for the purpose to be fixed by agreement with the Miller Board. The action of the Executive Committee in the premises to be regarded as the action of this Board to all intents and purposes.

The Miller Board through its Secretary proposed the following as its appropriations for the Session of 1889-90:

On motion the foregoing appropriations were concurred in by this Board.

The following resolution was reported from the Miller Board by its Secretary for the consideration of this Board: and its action.

"Resolved that in the opinion of this Board it is expedient that from & after the Session of 1889-90 there should be two Miller Scholarships of $250. each, one to be awarded by the Miller Board and the other to be given on competitive examination."

On motion this Board acquiesced in the above recommendation of the Miller Board and the Secretary instructed to notify that Board of the fact.

The Committee on Conduct of Schools etc. submitted its report which reads as follows:

To the Board of Visitors.

Your Committee on the Conduct of Schools & Examination of Students beg leave to report as follows on the questions referred to them by the Board.

1st That Profr Wm H. Perkinson's title be that of Adjunct instead of Assistant Professor.

2d That, as it was the intention of the Board to give the title and rank of Adjunct to Profr Perkinson at the meeting when he was elected Assistant, & as it was due to a clerical error that his appointment did not so read, Profr Perkinson shall be rated as Senior to Adjunct Profr R. H. Dabney, who was elected on the same day.

3d That the conduct of the Department of French & German shall be intrusted exclusively to Profr Perkinson, & that the present Modern Language room be assigned him for his lectures & recitations.

4th That the Conduct of the Department of Spanish, Italian, & Anglo Saxon be intrusted exclusively to Profr Schele deVere, & that a suitable room be assigned him by the Proctor.

5th In regard to the new B. A. degree, it is not desirable that the term "Certificate of proficiency" shall be used as certifying "a pass". It is expected that in some of the schools (e.g. Latin), the work shall be different in scope & character from that pursued at present by applicants for full graduation in the senior class.

6th Those who pass satisfactorily the examination in any subject or school for the B. A. degree shall be declared "Graduates in B. A. Course in Latin," "B. A. Course in Greek", "B. A. Course in Math." etc.

7th That, as the Faculty recommend in the Diploma of Bachelor of Arts, full statement be made of the attainments of students, as is done in the present titled Academic degrees.

8th That the cost of the B. A. diploma shall be ten dollars, all payments made by students for the diplomas of "B. A. graduation", in courses leading to such degree, to be deducted from this charge for the full B. A. diploma, provided that these previous payments do not exceed ten dollars.

W. Gordon McCabe, Chairman

W. C. N. Randolph,

Legh R. Watts.

The foregoing report was read, approved and adopted, together with its recommendations

The Committee on Finance to which Committee it was referred at the last meeting of the Board to consider and report a plan for readjusting the salaries of the Professors submitted their report which recommends the following plan That hereafter the emolument of the several professors in the University of Virginia (except the Professors of Astronomy, Mineralogy & Geology, and, Agriculture which professorships have fixed endowments of three thousand dollars each) shall be as follows. Each Professor (except the professors in the schools aforesaid) in addition to his house or commutation therefor at the rate of three hundred dollars per annum, shall be paid a fixed salary of two thousand dollars and all the fees of his school, provided that no professor shall receive more than three thousand dollars from salary and fees unless the whole number of students at the University shall exceed the number of four hundred and thirty.

When the whole number of students shall exceed 430 each of said professors shall be entitled to receive for every ten additional students over said number (430), fifty dollars over and above three thousand dollars, provided the number of students in his class shall warrant such additional compensation, that is to say that each of said professors shall receive two thousand dollars salary and the fees of his school up to three thousand dollars and any professor whose salary and fees shall exceed $3000. shall in addition to the three thousand dollars, receive fifty dollars for every ten additional students over the number of 430.

In the Schools of Modern Languages and Historical Science in which adjunct professors have been appointed with a fixed salary of ($1500.) fifteen hundred dollars each and the salary of the full professors fixed at two thousand dollars each making each school cost the University thirty five hundred dollars. The adjunct professors in said schools shall be entitled to receive the fees of their respective schools up to two thousand dollars provided the number in the schools of Modern Languages shall exceed ninety; and the number in the school of Historical Science shall exceed thirty six. And when the number of students at the University shall exceed four hundred and thirty, the said Adjunct professors shall be entitled to receive fifty dollars each for every ten additional students over 430 in the University provided the number of students in their respective classes shall warrant such increased compensation.

The fees in the schools of Latin, Greek, Modern Languages, Pure Mathematics, Moral Philosophy, Natural Philosophy, General & Industrial Chemistry, Historical Science and the English Language & Literature which are now free to Virginia Students by statute, shall be paid out of the general funds of the University; for the students from Virginia in said schools at the rate charged students from other states, to-wit the sum of $25.00 for each student from Virginia in each of said schools— provided however that the emoluments of the full professors shall not exceed three thousand dollars, and that of the two Adjunct professors shall not exceed two thousand dollars until the number of students at the University shall exceed four hundred and thirty. The report was read and on motion the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved that, the plan proposed for a modification of the existing method of providing compensation for the Professors of the Academic & Professional Schools of this University be refered to to the Faculty for their consideration & views as to the expediency of the scheme, together with the information that that it is the disposition of the Board of Visitors to adopt this plan, to take effect from Octr 1889, unless the Board be shown good cause why this step, which is in accord with the original plan of Mr Jefferson, should not be taken.

Hon. John L. Marye tendered his resignation as the Rector of the University in the following letter addressed to the Board & which was read to the Board.

To the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia,

Gentlemen,. I respectfully tender my resignation of the Office of Rector of the University, to take effect at the adjournment of this meeting of the Board.

This resignation is induced solely by the conviction that the state of my health together with the demands upon my time & labor caused by my private business, prevent me from giving the care and attention appropriate to the important duties of the office.

With grateful acknowledgment of the honor done me by the Board in appointing me to this office, and your kind confidence during my incumbency, I am with high respect your obedient servant.

Mr Marye was urged to reconsider and withdraw his resignation which he declined to do for the reasons stated in his letter.

On motion Mr Marye's resignation was accepted to take effect at the close of the present meeting of the Board.

Dr W. C. N. Randolph who was temporarily absent from the meeting was placed in nomination to fill the vacancy in the office of Rector in place of Mr Marye resigned and upon a vote thereon was unanimously elected.

Resolved that, the recommendation of the Faculty that a diploma be granted on the completion of the Course in Biology & Comparative Anatomy & Zoology be adopted.

The Board of Visitors being of the opinion that the discipline of the University & comfort & convenience of the students can be better conserved by having the dormitories on the Lawn be occupied by students rather than by the Professors, and that the officies of the Professors be removed to the East Range the sense of the Faculty on this subject is respectfully requested for the consideration of the Board.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 10 A. M.

June 26th 1889.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present. Mr Marye, Rector, and Messrs Randolph, Conrad, Noland, Gordon, Stuart and Watts. Absent Messrs Bolling & McCabe who had left for their homes.

The Finance Committee submitted its report which reads as follows.

The Finance Committee beg leave to report

That the Report of the Proctor discloses an encouraging improvement in the financial condition of the University= The deficit of $4164. which confronted us at the close of the last session has been removed and a wise and prudent policy has been practiced in the investment of the funds under our control.

Of the $5000. bequeathed by Mrs Birely to found a scholarship in the University $3096.76 has been received and promptly and securely invested. Your Committee deem it inexpedient to advise any appropriation of the income arising from this investment, until the entire amount of the bequest has been received from the Executors. They recommend that the interest which may accrue on the portion received, and on that yet unpaid, be reserved to meet such expenses as may be incidental to the establishment of the Scholarship.

The Committee recommend that the Proctor be directed to refund to Mr C. C. Kidd an amount equal to one half of the semi-annual payments made by him during the present session.

That the Proctor refund to Dr J. L. Cabell the sum of $84.62 the amount expended by him for the sanitary drainage about the Pavilion occupied by him.

That the sum of $15. be appropriated for the construction of a door in the attic of the house occupied by Dr Mallet.

The estimated receipts for the ensuing year are $80,006.00. Your Committee recommend that this be appropriated as follows:

The special endowment funds should be applied in the manner indicated in the Report of the Faculty.

Should the receipts for the ensuing year allow of it, after satisfying the appropriations heretofore made, Your Committee recommend that the further appropriations suggested by the Faculty; be made for the several objects indicated in the report of the Faculty in the order therein stated.

The Committee accompanied its report with the following four resolutions and recommended their adoption.

1\. Resolved that, Dr W. C. Dabney be authorized to apply the sum of $300. heretofore appropriated for Instruction in Pathology & Histology, in the purchase of microscopes for the use of those departments of his chair.

2\. Resolved that, the Proctor be directed to refund to Mr C. C. Kidd an amount equal to one half of the semi-annual payments made by him during the present session.

3\. Resolved that, an amount not to exceed $15. be expended in constructing a door in the attic of the house occupied by Profr Mallet.

4\. Resolved that the Proctor do refund to Dr J. L. Cabell the sum of $8462 the amount expended by him for drainage to the Pavilion occupied by him.

On motion the report of the Finance together with the resolutions accompanying after being read and considered were received, approved & adopted.

The Committee on Grounds Buildings and Boarding Houses in the form of the following Eight resolutions which were read, approved and adopted.

1\. Resolved that the communications pro and con on the subject of retaining the Old Bell at the University as a relic be returned to the Authors by the Secretary with a note explaining that the Board having heretofore given the Bell to be recast, to the Ladies of the Chapel Aid Society; have now no further power over the subject.

2\. Resolved that the Professor elect, R. H. Dabney be allowed to occupy as his office and study, room known as No. 10 East Lawn.

3\. Resolved that the basement room in the Medical Hall be prepared for use in giving the instruction referred to in the report of the Faculty—at a cost not exceeding $50.

4\. Resolved that the recommendations of the Faculty in regard to the Boarding of Students numbered 1, 2, 3, & 4, be and the same are hereby approved and adopted.

5\. Resolved that the room now and heretofore used as a Chapel shall remain unchanged and may be used for morning prayers, for meetings of the Y. M. C. A., of the Society of Alumni & other like purposes—until the Board shall otherwise order.

6\. Resolved that the rooms mentioned in the Report of the Professor of Applied Mathematics be assigned to the Department of Engineering—but that no expenditures be made for fitting up at present.

7\. Resolved that the Proctor remove and safely and properly store the Books now in the old Chemical Laboratory.

8\. Resolved that it is inexpedient to assign houses to Professors according to seniority, and that this Board will always feel free to act according to the circumstances of each case.

On motion a letter prepared by the Rector on behalf of the Board and addressed to Profr John B. Minor was ordered to be forwarded to Mr Minor—which letter reads as follows:

The Board of Visitors in view of the large increase in the number of the Law School & the consequent burden added to your already onerous duties, feel that it is due to your long & illustrious service in the University that you should have some relief from the arduous and exacting labors of your school, & accordingly propose to appropriate the sum of fifteen hundred dollars with which to secure for you such assistance as in your judgment you may deem necessary.

The nomination of such Assistant as well as the duties to be assigned him are left entirely to your discretion. A capable man trained by yourself might relieve you from time to time of much of the drudgery of detail & leave you free to perform other important teaching, and complete the great literary work upon which you are engaged, the volumes of which, so far as they have appeared, are every where recognized as a standard authority, & have reflected the highest honor on our University. The Board has felt that, in your single minded devotion to the University you have refrained out of the most delicate & lofty motives from suggesting that assistance, to which you are so eminantly entitled.

The Board therefore duly appreciating the high motives, which have to their mind restrained you from asking such assistance, now beg, with their assurances of grateful recognition of your distinguished services, to tender voluntarily the relief from drudgery you have so amply deserved. With true & faithful regard, we have the honor to be

A letter was received from Profr Minor in reply to the foregoing which reads as follows:

My Dear Sirs, I have this moment read your communication of this date, and acknowledge with unfeigned thankfulness, the kind considerations manifested by the resolution of the Board to which you refer, and the very flattering terms in which you have been pleased to communicate it.

The proposition, though in some aspects acceptable to me, takes me so much by surprise, that if consistent with the views of the Board, I would fain ask that I may be allowed time to consider it, if need be for a year.

I am not conscious of any decline of my general capacities for usefulness, and perceive that some difficulties may intervene in the assignment of a part of my work to an assistant, and would be glad to have time to consider the whole matter, and if need be, to make deliberate and well-considered arrangements for the most beneficial operation of the system, should it be deemed best to adopt it.

Hon. Jno. L. Marye, Rector etc.

University of Virga.

The Board having held a personal conference with Profr John B. Minor upon the subject of the foregoing correspondence, It was ordered that the matter of the nomination of an Assistant Professor in Profr Minor's school be left to the discretion of Profr Minor as to the time of making the nomination, and that in case he shall make a nomination between this time and the next meeting of the Board the Executive Committee of this Board is hereby authorized and empowered to appoint the person so nominated as Assistant Professor in said school for the part of the session unexpired at the time of such nomination, and the person so elected as Assistant Professor shall receive a compensation at the rate of One hundred and fifty dollars per month for such period of the session as shall remain unexpired after his election.

Resolved that the whole matter of the apportionment of the of the duties of affording the proper medical relief to the students of the University, be left to the incumbents of the several Medical Schools of the institution, who shall in such arrangements as they may make, have due regard to the convenience of the students, and of their readiness of access to the physicians.

Resolved that the Pavilion now occupied by Dr W. C. Dabney, be assigned to Profr Garnett who shall have possession thereof upon the removal thereout of Dr Dabney.

It being suggested that Mr E. C. Huntington, the Instructor in Gymnastics has determined to accept a position in the Vanderbilt University. Resolved that the Chairman of the Faculty be authorized to employ a suitable Instructor in Gymnastics upon the terms and salary as recommended in the report of the Faculty.

Messrs Gordon, Marye, Randolph, Watts and McCabe were elected as Executive Committee for the ensuing twelve months.

Profr Wm M. Thornton was reelected as Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing twelve months, by a unanimous vote.

On motion the Board adjourned.

At the annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors held on the 24th day of June 1889.

Present. Hon. John L. Marye, Rector and Messrs Randolph, Conrad, Noland, Gordon, McCabe and Bolling.

The Executive Committee submitted its report which was read and received & its acts approved.

A motion was made to make Assistant Profr Perkinson Adjunct Profr of Modern Languages which on motion was referred to the Committee on Conduct of Schools etc for its consideration and report thereon to the Board.

A communication was received from the ladies in regard to the "Old Bell" and the same was referred to the Committee on Grounds, Buildings etc. for consideration and report to the Board.

The portion of the Report of the Executive Committee in relation to granting leave to hold a session of the Hebrew Summer School at the University was referred to the Committee on Grounds, Buildings etc. for report.

Resolved that the young people be permitted to have the use of the Library room for the "German" on the 25th; but that this is not to be considered as a precedent for future action.

Judge Watts appeared and took his seat.

The Chairman of the Faculty Report with the documents referred to therein and other papers.

The Faculty Report was read and the following resolutions adopted in reference thereto.

1\. Resolved that the report of the Faculty in reference to the Medical Department be referred to the Committee on Conduct of Schools with permission to report at this or at the next meeting of the Board if it is desired to have a meeting in ninety days.

2\. Resolved that the portion referring to Academic Degrees be referred to the same Committee.

3\. Resolved that the different topics of the report not already referred, be referred to the proper Committees for report.

The Board having been informed that the Washington Society is in temporary embarrassment and that they can in a year return the amount necessary:

Resolved that the Proctor be directed to place to their credit one hundred & fifty dollars; provided they deposit their funds with him until the money is replaced.

The Annual Report of the Proctor was read and referred to the Finance Committee.

Mr McCabe moved that Dr Jas L. Cabell be invited to appear before the Board of Visitors to-morrow (Tuesday) at such hour as he may appoint, & give his views on the division of the chair of Physiology & Surgery.

Profr Thornton submitted a report in regard to the Department of Engineering and its needs which was read and on motion referred to the Committees on Conduct of Schools and on Finance.

Resolved that the Pavilion now occupied by Dr Cabell be assigned to Dr W. C. Dabney and that Dr Cabell be permitted to retain the pavilion and not make the transfer until it is convenient to him.

A communication was received from the Miller Board requesting that an Inventory be made and furnished that Board of the furniture and equipment purchased by Profr Tuttle with the $2500. appropriated for his Laboratory & Lecture Room, and of the furniture & equipment provided out of the $650. appropriated to be expended by the Proctor in finishing and preparing the Lecture Room for Profr Tuttle, in order that such Inventories may be held by the Miller Board as the evidence of the property held by that Board as part of the Miller Fund in accordance with the requirement of the third section of the Deed of Samuel Miller. Whereupon it was resolved that Profr Tuttle and the Proctor are instructed to make out said Inventories, and deliver the same to the Secretary of this Board who shall transmit them to the Secretary of the Miller Board.

An application was received from Adjunct Profr R. H. Dabney to be allowed the use of a Dormitory free of rent which was referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings.

An application was received from Mr C. C. Kidd to have a portion of his fees refunded to him which was referred to the Infirmary Committee.

An application was received from Dr Whitehead Asst Demonstrator of Anatomy for leave of absence from the University commencing Nov 15th next which was granted as requested.

Resolved that the Proctor shall pay to the Charlottesville Industrial & Land Improvement Company the sum of one hundred dollars for advertisement in the Washington Post of the University.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet to-morrow at 9 A. M.

Test

Dr Paul B. Barringer

of N. C.

Dr C. B. Nancrede

of Phila

Dr H. D. Bruns

of New Orleans.

Dr W. G. Eggleston

of Chicago.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present. The Rector and all of the Visitors, including Mr Stuart, who was absent on yesterday.

A communication was received from Dr Jas L. Cabell stating that he was too unwell to visit the Board as he was invited to do on yesterday.

Profr J. L. Cabell having informed the Board that the infirm condition of his health made it necessary in his judgment that he should resign his Professorship, and the Board having conferred with him on the subject, it was finally agreed by him in response to the earnest solicitation of the Board that he would not tender his resignation but would consent to accept an indefinite leave of absence from the duties of his chair, upon the basis that the Board should appoint an Adjunct Professor in the School who should perform all the duties and receive all the emoluments of the School.

On motion it was ordered that an indefinite leave of absence be granted to Profr J. L. Cabell from the duties of his school.

On motion it was ordered that the salary of the Adjunct Professor in the School of Physiology and Surgery be fixed at Three Thousand dollars, and that he shall perform all the work and duties of that school.

On motion the Board resolved to proceed with the election of the Adjunct Professor of Physiology and Surgery.

The following named gentlemen were applicants for this chair and their testimonials were before the Board.

After the reading to the Board of the testimonials of all of these gentlemen on motion all four of them were placed in nomination for the position and a viva voce vote taken which resulted in the unanimous choice of Dr Paul B. Barringer.

On motion the Secretary was instructed to inform Dr Barringer of his election.

Resolved that such part of the Faculty report in regard to radical changes in the organization of the Medical Department be laid on the table and the Faculty be informed that the Board is not disposed to make any radical changes but that they are disposed when the subject has been fully discussed to pay especial attention to this department with the view of enlarging its facilities for didactic, and clinical instruction; but the latter only as an adjunct and subordinate to its theoretical teaching.

The Miller Board reported through its secretary that the following resolution (of which a copy was furnished) as the action of that Board

"Resolved that the sum of six hundred dollars is hereby appropriated to employ an Assistant to the Profr Biology & Agriculture for the Session beginning Oct 1st 1889, said Assistant to be nominated by this Board & elected by the Board of Visitors."

On motion the foregoing resolution was concurred in and the Secretary instructed to notify the Miller Board of the fact.

The Infirmary Committee submitted its report which reads as follows

The undersigned the Com. on Infirmary etc. to whom was referred the application of C. C. Kidd to refund to him a portion of the deposit made by him as a student for the present session, beg leave to report that after due consideration of the subject & in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty they suggest the adoption of the following resolution.

Resolved that the Proctor be directed to refund to Mr. C. C. Kidd the one half of the amount he deposited at the commencement of this session.

Mr Marye was urged to reconsider and withdraw his resignation which he declined to do for the reasons stated in his letter.

On motion Mr Marye's resignation was accepted to take effect at the close of the present meeting of the Board.

Dr W. C. N. Randolph who was temporarily absent from the meeting was placed in nomination to fill the vacancy in the office of Rector in place of Mr Marye resigned and upon a vote thereon was unanimously elected.

Resolved that, the recommendation of the Faculty that a diploma be granted on the completion of the Course in Biology & Comparative Anatomy & Zoology be adopted.

The Board of Visitors being of the opinion that the discipline of the University & comfort & convenience of the students can be better conserved by having the dormitories on the Lawn be occupied by students rather than by the Professors, and that the officies of the Professors be removed to the East Range the sense of the Faculty on this subject is respectfully requested for the consideration of the Board.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 10 A. M.

The Board of Visitors in view of the large increase in the number of the Law School & the consequent burden added to your already onerous duties, feel that it is due to your long & illustrious service in the University that you should have some relief from the arduous and exacting labors of your school, & accordingly propose to appropriate the sum of fifteen hundred dollars with which to secure for you such assistance as in your judgment you may deem necessary.

The nomination of such Assistant as well as the duties to be assigned him are left entirely to your discretion. A capable man trained by yourself might relieve you from time to time of much of the drudgery of detail & leave you free to perform other important teaching, and complete the great literary work upon which you are engaged, the volumes of which, so far as they have appeared, are every where recognized as a standard authority, & have reflected the highest honor on our University. The Board has felt that, in your single minded devotion to the University you have refrained out of the most delicate & lofty motives from suggesting that assistance, to which you are so eminantly entitled.

The Board therefore duly appreciating the high motives, which have to their mind restrained you from asking such assistance, now beg, with their assurances of grateful recognition of your distinguished services, to tender voluntarily the relief from drudgery you have so amply deserved. With true & faithful regard, we have the honor to be

My Dear Sirs, I have this moment read your communication of this date, and acknowledge with unfeigned thankfulness, the kind considerations manifested by the resolution of the Board to which you refer, and the very flattering terms in which you have been pleased to communicate it.

The proposition, though in some aspects acceptable to me, takes me so much by surprise, that if consistent with the views of the Board, I would fain ask that I may be allowed time to consider it, if need be for a year.

I am not conscious of any decline of my general capacities for usefulness, and perceive that some difficulties may intervene in the assignment of a part of my work to an assistant, and would be glad to have time to consider the whole matter, and if need be, to make deliberate and well-considered arrangements for the most beneficial operation of the system, should it be deemed best to adopt it.

At the annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors held on the 24th day of June 1889.

Present. Hon. John L. Marye, Rector and Messrs Randolph, Conrad, Noland, Gordon, McCabe and Bolling.

The Executive Committee submitted its report which was read and received & its acts approved.

A motion was made to make Assistant Profr Perkinson Adjunct Profr of Modern Languages which on motion was referred to the Committee on Conduct of Schools etc for its consideration and report thereon to the Board.

A communication was received from the ladies in regard to the "Old Bell" and the same was referred to the Committee on Grounds, Buildings etc. for consideration and report to the Board.

The portion of the Report of the Executive Committee in relation to granting leave to hold a session of the Hebrew Summer School at the University was referred to the Committee on Grounds, Buildings etc. for report.

Resolved that the young people be permitted to have the use of the Library room for the "German" on the 25th; but that this is not to be considered as a precedent for future action.

Judge Watts appeared and took his seat.

The Chairman of the Faculty Report with the documents referred to therein and other papers.

The Faculty Report was read and the following resolutions adopted in reference thereto.

1\. Resolved that the report of the Faculty in reference to the Medical Department be referred to the Committee on Conduct of Schools with permission to report at this or at the next meeting of the Board if it is desired to have a meeting in ninety days.

2\. Resolved that the portion referring to Academic Degrees be referred to the same Committee.

3\. Resolved that the different topics of the report not already referred, be referred to the proper Committees for report.

The Board having been informed that the Washington Society is in temporary embarrassment and that they can in a year return the amount necessary:

Resolved that the Proctor be directed to place to their credit one hundred & fifty dollars; provided they deposit their funds with him until the money is replaced.

The Annual Report of the Proctor was read and referred to the Finance Committee.

Mr McCabe moved that Dr Jas L. Cabell be invited to appear before the Board of Visitors to-morrow (Tuesday) at such hour as he may appoint, & give his views on the division of the chair of Physiology & Surgery.

Profr Thornton submitted a report in regard to the Department of Engineering and its needs which was read and on motion referred to the Committees on Conduct of Schools and on Finance.

Resolved that the Pavilion now occupied by Dr Cabell be assigned to Dr W. C. Dabney and that Dr Cabell be permitted to retain the pavilion and not make the transfer until it is convenient to him.

A communication was received from the Miller Board requesting that an Inventory be made and furnished that Board of the furniture and equipment purchased by Profr Tuttle with the $2500. appropriated for his Laboratory & Lecture Room, and of the furniture & equipment provided out of the $650. appropriated to be expended by the Proctor in finishing and preparing the Lecture Room for Profr Tuttle, in order that such Inventories may be held by the Miller Board as the evidence of the property held by that Board as part of the Miller Fund in accordance with the requirement of the third section of the Deed of Samuel Miller. Whereupon it was resolved that Profr Tuttle and the Proctor are instructed to make out said Inventories, and deliver the same to the Secretary of this Board who shall transmit them to the Secretary of the Miller Board.

An application was received from Adjunct Profr R. H. Dabney to be allowed the use of a Dormitory free of rent which was referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings.

An application was received from Mr C. C. Kidd to have a portion of his fees refunded to him which was referred to the Infirmary Committee.

An application was received from Dr Whitehead Asst Demonstrator of Anatomy for leave of absence from the University commencing Nov 15th next which was granted as requested.

Resolved that the Proctor shall pay to the Charlottesville Industrial & Land Improvement Company the sum of one hundred dollars for advertisement in the Washington Post of the University.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet to-morrow at 9 A. M.

Test

Dr Paul B. Barringer

of N. C.

Dr C. B. Nancrede

of Phila

Dr H. D. Bruns

of New Orleans.

Dr W. G. Eggleston

of Chicago.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present. The Rector and all of the Visitors, including Mr Stuart, who was absent on yesterday.

A communication was received from Dr Jas L. Cabell stating that he was too unwell to visit the Board as he was invited to do on yesterday.

Profr J. L. Cabell having informed the Board that the infirm condition of his health made it necessary in his judgment that he should resign his Professorship, and the Board having conferred with him on the subject, it was finally agreed by him in response to the earnest solicitation of the Board that he would not tender his resignation but would consent to accept an indefinite leave of absence from the duties of his chair, upon the basis that the Board should appoint an Adjunct Professor in the School who should perform all the duties and receive all the emoluments of the School.

On motion it was ordered that an indefinite leave of absence be granted to Profr J. L. Cabell from the duties of his school.

On motion it was ordered that the salary of the Adjunct Professor in the School of Physiology and Surgery be fixed at Three Thousand dollars, and that he shall perform all the work and duties of that school.

On motion the Board resolved to proceed with the election of the Adjunct Professor of Physiology and Surgery.

The following named gentlemen were applicants for this chair and their testimonials were before the Board.

After the reading to the Board of the testimonials of all of these gentlemen on motion all four of them were placed in nomination for the position and a viva voce vote taken which resulted in the unanimous choice of Dr Paul B. Barringer.

On motion the Secretary was instructed to inform Dr Barringer of his election.

Resolved that such part of the Faculty report in regard to radical changes in the organization of the Medical Department be laid on the table and the Faculty be informed that the Board is not disposed to make any radical changes but that they are disposed when the subject has been fully discussed to pay especial attention to this department with the view of enlarging its facilities for didactic, and clinical instruction; but the latter only as an adjunct and subordinate to its theoretical teaching.

The Miller Board reported through its secretary that the following resolution (of which a copy was furnished) as the action of that Board

"Resolved that the sum of six hundred dollars is hereby appropriated to employ an Assistant to the Profr Biology & Agriculture for the Session beginning Oct 1st 1889, said Assistant to be nominated by this Board & elected by the Board of Visitors."

On motion the foregoing resolution was concurred in and the Secretary instructed to notify the Miller Board of the fact.

The Infirmary Committee submitted its report which reads as follows

The undersigned the Com. on Infirmary etc. to whom was referred the application of C. C. Kidd to refund to him a portion of the deposit made by him as a student for the present session, beg leave to report that after due consideration of the subject & in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty they suggest the adoption of the following resolution.

Resolved that the Proctor be directed to refund to Mr. C. C. Kidd the one half of the amount he deposited at the commencement of this session.

Mr Marye was urged to reconsider and withdraw his resignation which he declined to do for the reasons stated in his letter.

On motion Mr Marye's resignation was accepted to take effect at the close of the present meeting of the Board.

Dr W. C. N. Randolph who was temporarily absent from the meeting was placed in nomination to fill the vacancy in the office of Rector in place of Mr Marye resigned and upon a vote thereon was unanimously elected.

Resolved that, the recommendation of the Faculty that a diploma be granted on the completion of the Course in Biology & Comparative Anatomy & Zoology be adopted.

The Board of Visitors being of the opinion that the discipline of the University & comfort & convenience of the students can be better conserved by having the dormitories on the Lawn be occupied by students rather than by the Professors, and that the officies of the Professors be removed to the East Range the sense of the Faculty on this subject is respectfully requested for the consideration of the Board.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 10 A. M.

The Board of Visitors in view of the large increase in the number of the Law School & the consequent burden added to your already onerous duties, feel that it is due to your long & illustrious service in the University that you should have some relief from the arduous and exacting labors of your school, & accordingly propose to appropriate the sum of fifteen hundred dollars with which to secure for you such assistance as in your judgment you may deem necessary.

The nomination of such Assistant as well as the duties to be assigned him are left entirely to your discretion. A capable man trained by yourself might relieve you from time to time of much of the drudgery of detail & leave you free to perform other important teaching, and complete the great literary work upon which you are engaged, the volumes of which, so far as they have appeared, are every where recognized as a standard authority, & have reflected the highest honor on our University. The Board has felt that, in your single minded devotion to the University you have refrained out of the most delicate & lofty motives from suggesting that assistance, to which you are so eminantly entitled.

The Board therefore duly appreciating the high motives, which have to their mind restrained you from asking such assistance, now beg, with their assurances of grateful recognition of your distinguished services, to tender voluntarily the relief from drudgery you have so amply deserved. With true & faithful regard, we have the honor to be

My Dear Sirs, I have this moment read your communication of this date, and acknowledge with unfeigned thankfulness, the kind considerations manifested by the resolution of the Board to which you refer, and the very flattering terms in which you have been pleased to communicate it.

The proposition, though in some aspects acceptable to me, takes me so much by surprise, that if consistent with the views of the Board, I would fain ask that I may be allowed time to consider it, if need be for a year.

I am not conscious of any decline of my general capacities for usefulness, and perceive that some difficulties may intervene in the assignment of a part of my work to an assistant, and would be glad to have time to consider the whole matter, and if need be, to make deliberate and well-considered arrangements for the most beneficial operation of the system, should it be deemed best to adopt it.