 TEI to HTML

Salaries of Officers:Scholarships and Fellowships:Wages of Employees:Working Expenses:General Expenses.Special appropriations out of the Fayerweather fund, per resolutions of the Visitors.Special Appropriations out of the General Fund.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

19 Professors at $3,000.00

$ 57,000.00

2 Professors at 2,000.00

4,000.00

2 Adjt Profs at 1,800.00

3,600.00

2 Adjt Profs at 1,500.00

3,000.00

Assistant in Law.

1,500.00

Chemistry

1,000.00

Elec and Physics.

1,000.00

Ancient Languages.

800.00

Mathematics.

800.00

Biology.

500.00

Mech. and Civil Eng.

1,000.00

French and Ger.

600.00

Dem. Anatomy

1,000.00

Assist. Dem. Anatomy

150.00

Dem. Pathology

500.00

Director of Gymnasium

1,000.00

Total

$ 77,450.00

Chairman

1,000.00

Proctor

2,000.00

Supt Grounds and Buildings

700.00

Secretary, Board of Visitors

300.00

Commissioner of Accounts

150.00

Librarian

800.00

Total

$ 4 950.00

Miller Scholarships

$ 750.00

Brown Scholarships

120.00

Mason Fellowship

210.00

$ 1 080.00

Janitor & Plumber

600.00

Day & Night Watchman

960.00

Janitor of Rotunda

300.00

Janitor of Museum

180.00

Janitor of Anatl Hall

240.00

Janitor of Gymnasium

225.00

Janitor of Chem. Laboratory

136.00

Janitor of Med. Hall

135.00

Janitor of Annex

135.00

Janitor of Dispensary

100.00

Chairman's Messenger

120.00

Laborers

1,000.00

Total

$ 4,131.00

Alumni Bulletin

$ 500.00

McCormick Observatory

1,610.00

Agriculture & Biology

750.00

Chemical Department

350.00

Physical Department

300.00

Engineering Department

175.00

Anatomical Material

200.00

Mineralogy & Geology

50.00

Dispensary

400.00

Library

1,000.00

Students' Reading Room

200.00

Diplomas

700.00

Printing blanks

150.00

Catalogues

900.00

Advertising

1,200.00

Gymnasium

650.00

Fuel

500.00

Light

750.00

Fuel Gas for Laboratories

200.00

Path. Lab.

250.00

Obstetrics

75.00

Operative Surgery

100.00

Total

$ 11,010.00

Sinking Fund

2,367.00

Interest

6,220.00

Repairs

5,000.00

Commutations of rent

2,400.00

Contingent fund

1,500.00

Reservoir tax

150.00

Total

$ 17,637.00

Cottage for Director of Bymnasium

2,000.00

Library

2,250.00

Fee of John M. White

150.00

Total

$ 4,400.00

Insulation of Electric Wires

300.00

Reimbursement of Mr Moses

10.00

Jars & Cases for School of Physiology

100.00

$ 410.00

Summary of Income & Expenditures=

Income including balance from last year

$113,748.25

Salaries of Corps of Instructors

$ 77,450.00

Salaries of Officers

4,950.00

Scholarships & Fellowships

1,080.00

Wages of Employees

4,131.00

Working Expenses

11,010.00

General Expenses

17,637.00

Special Appropriations

410.00

$116,668.00

Salary of Prof. Tuttle

$3000.00

Salary of Prof. Thornton

500.00

Salary of Prof. Dunnington

500.00

Scholarship of T. A. Martin

250.00

Scholarship of J. A. Shepherd

250.00

Assistant to Profr Tuttle

500.00

Apparatus & books to be inventoried as the property of the Miller Board

650.00

Working Expenses of Laboratory

100.00

Scholarship for John R. Page, Jr for one session

250.00

Aggregating

$6000.00

Dr Archer Atkinson

of Baltimore, Md.

Dr H. St John Brooks-

University of Dublin, Ireland.

Dr C. H. Bird.

\-Toronto, Canada.

Dr W. G. Christian.

University of Virginia.

Dr G. W. Cale.

St Louis, Mo.

Dr W. A. Campbell.

University of Michigan.

Dr W. B. Hall, Jr.

Sewanee, Tenn.

Dr Woods Hutchinson.

Des Moines, Iowa.

Dr J. C. Heisle.

University of Pa.

Dr A. Hewson.

Jefferson Med. College, Pa

Dr G. C. Jones.

Halifax, Nova Scotia.

Dr A. Keog.

New York, N. Y.

Dr Wm Keiller.

University of Texas.

Dr J. C. Lewinski.

New York, N. Y.

Dr J. H. Linsley.

University of Vermont.

Dr F. M. G. Start.

Toronto, Canada.

Dr W. R. Sutherland.

Bristol, R. I.

Dr G. T. Vaughan. U. S. Marine Hospital Service, Washington, D.C.

Dr R. H. Whitehead

University of N. C.

Dr C. M. Blackford.

Lynchburg, Va.

Dr W. S. Carter.

University of Pa.

Dr J. Staige Davis.

University of Va.

Dr Wm Glaister.

Toronto, Canada.

Dr J. C. Graham.

Columbus, Ohio.

Dr Robert Hessler.

Bloomington, Inda

Dr Chas. T. McClintock.

Ann Arbor, Mich.

At the annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on the 11th day of June 1894.

Present. The Rector and Messrs McCormick, Patteson, T. S. Martin, McCabe and A. C. Gordon.

The Chairman of the Faculty laid before the Board the Faculty report, the Proctor's report, the annual report of Mr S. B. Woods, Commissioner of Accounts, the various School reports and sundry petitions of individuals.

The Rector appointed Messrs Patteson, T. S. Martin and A. C. Gordon a Committee to confer with the Miller Board.

The Faculty report was taken up, read and considered, with its recommendations.

The following resolutions were adopted=

Resolved, that an appropriation of a sum not exceeding $2000.00 out of the Fayerweather fund be made, to erect on the ground near the Gymnasium, a cottage for the use of the Director, the site to be selected by the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings and the building to be erected under his supervision, provided the site selected shall be approved by the Executive Committee subject to whose approval also shall be the plan of the cottage.

Resolved, that the guarantee of $500.00 for the maintenance of the Alumni Bulletin is hereby continued for the period of twelve months.

Resolved, that the resolution of the Faculty requesting the Visitors to approach the authorities of Charlottesville on the subject of hastening the drainage of Schenck's branch region, be referred to the Executive Committee with the request that said Committee cooperate with the Board of Health under said resolution.

The Rector and Visitors being informed that it is the purpose of the Union Theological Seminary to remove from its present location in Prince Edward County to some other place in Virginia, it is

Resolved, that the Rector & Executive Committee when the occasion arises, or an opportunity is presented, encourage the removal of said Seminary to the vicinity of the University of Virginia, granting it such privileges and benefits as may be in the power of the Visitors, the details of any arrangement hereunder to be submitted to the Visitors for their action.

The foregoing resolution in regard to the Theological Seminary was adopted by a vote of 4 in favor and one against it, Mr Patteson voting in the negative and requested to be so recorded.

Resolved, that $300.00 be appropriated under the recommendation of the Faculty, to be placed at the disposal of the Superintendent Grounds & Buildings for the employment of an expert to examine into the condition of the Electric wires entering private and public buildings of the University.

Resolved, that the Proctor is authorized & directed to refund to Mr J. B. Moses ten dollars deposited but not used for laboratory expenses in the class of Botany.

Resolved, that the Visitors regret their inability to grant the application of Mrs Harris, to erect a house on the University grounds.

According to the recommendation of the faculty on page 4 of the report it is

Resolved, that hereafter the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings employ one person to whom shall be committed, under the direction of said Superintendent, the entire supervision of all the Dormitories, except those on Carr's Hill, such appointee to employ and pay the servants, and by daily inspection to see that they do their duty punctually, the Student paying the same amount as charged at present for the service. Such appointee shall also furnish the rooms, if the students wish him so to do, with proper furniture at a rent to be approved by the Chairman of the Faculty.

Resolved, that Basil B. Gordon, Esq, a member of this Board, be and he is hereby excused from attendance upon this session of the Board, for sufficient cause shown to the Board.

Resolved, that the recommendation of the faculty to reduce student's library fees and the fee of the Librarian during the vacation of the University be indefinitely postponed.

Resolved, that in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty report, the fee of $100.00 charged to the advanced class in the course of Analytical Chemistry be reduced to $75.00 in order to conform more nearly to fees charged elsewhere for similar courses of instruction.

Resolved, that a contingent appropriation of $100.00 as recommended by the Faculty be made for procuring jars and constructing cases for specimens of drugs which are offered without charge to the Department Physiology.

According to the recommendation of the Faculty it is Resolved, that Dr Lambert be authorized to keep the Gymnasium during the coming vacation in the same manner and under the same regulations that obtained during the session.

Resolved, that the recommendation of the Faculty to appropriate $615. to add to & enlarge the Kitchen on Carr's Hill be indefinitely postponed.

At this point in the proceedings Visitor, R. W. Martin arrived and took his seat in the Board.

Resolved, that the sum of $2250.00 be and is hereby appropriated out of the Fayerweather fund to be applied as follows. $1250.00 to the publication of card catalogues of the Library, and $1000.00 to the purchase of law books for the library, the said law books to be purchased under the direction of the Law Faculty.

Resolved, that $1000.00 be appropriated out of the general fund, inclusive of the $45600. interest on the Library fund, to be used generally for the Library in the purchase of periodicals and books.

Resolved, that the Dispensary Committee be and it is hereby authorized to select a medical student who is a licensed druggist to act as druggist at the Dispensary, and that as compensation therefor such student be allowed free tuition in the Medical Department.

Resolved, that a room on either of the Lawns or Ranges be assigned to the Professor of Anatomy & Surgery, provided such assignment can be made without interfering with the present existing contract rights of the students for the next year.

Resolved, that it is the opinion of the Visitors that the recommendation of the Faculty with respect to the insertion in the Catalogue, that the "University College of Medicine" is not connected in any way with the "Medical Department of the University of Virginia", is unwise, inexpedient and wholly unnecessary, and the Visitors decidedly disapprove of such a course, and the Visitors also disapprove of the sending out to the Alumni of the University a brief circular in the nature of a protest against the action of the said University College of Medicine.

Resolved, that the Visitors regret that the want of sufficient revenue forces them to decline any increase of compensation to the assistants in the Schools of Mathematics and Ancient Languages.

Resolved, that the consideration of the petition of the Charlottesville & University Street R-Way Co. for permission to enter the University grounds with its track be indefinitely postponed; and that like action is taken on the appli- cation of the Piedmont Construction & Improvement Co. for a similar privilege.

At this point in the proceedings Visitor Watts arrived and occupied his seat in the Board.

The Board on motion took up the question of the admission of women as students of the University which was discussed and after consideration the following preamble & resolutions were offered by Mr McCormick:

While the Visitors are in full sympathy with the movement looking to the higher education of woman and they deprecate the want of proper facilities to furnish them such advantages, still considering the plan and constitution and believing coeducation therein was never contemplated by the founder of the institution, they, the Visitors feel impelled to deny them admission to the University as students. Therefore

1\. Resolved that women shall not be permitted to enter the University as students.

2\. Resolved that any and all provisions for the registration of women at the University in any way and for any purpose, and which as reported by the Faculty, are unsatisfactory and useless, be and the same are hereby rescinded.

Mr Patteson offered the following as a substitute for Mr McCormick's resolutions=

Resolved that it is deemed inadvisable that women should enter the University of Virginia as students until an adequate preparation has been made for that purpose. But in the event that an Annex is built not nearer than two miles of the University of Virginia this Board deems it advisable and proper that women should receive all of the instruction in an equal manner with men, the said Annex to be under the control of a prudent and discreet matron, and the lectures at the said Annex to be delivered by the University professors to women alone. The want of funds for the present prevents the building of this most desirable Annex which would place women, so far as the University of Virginia is concerned upon terms of equality with men.

A vote was first taken on the substitute by ayes and noes which was called for, and resulted in the rejection of the substitute. The vote was as follows: In favor of the adoption of the substitute: Mr Patteson.                 Opposed. The Rector and Messrs McCabe, McCormick, Watts, T. S. Martin and A. C. Gordon. Dr Martin was not present when the vote was taken. The vote was then taken on the original resolutions and they were adopted by the votes of the Rector, and Messrs McCabe, McCormick, Watts, T. S. Martin and A. C. Gordon. Mr Patteson the only other Visitor present declined to vote and asked that the following be entered of record: "Mr Camm Patteson declined to vote on these resolutions because there are parts of which he endorses, but other portions which do not meet with his approbation".

Resolved, that the recommendation of the Faculty that John R. Page, Jr, be placed on the footing of a Virginia student be declined for the reason that it is not in their lawful power to do so.

Resolved, that Judge John M. White be paid an additional fee of $150 00 for professional services in connection with the Austin legacy, to be paid out of the Fayerweather fund.

Resolved; whereas the matter is distinctly within the authority of the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings, the request of Profr Garnett for repairs to the basement of his dwelling be referred to said Superintendent.

The Board of Visitors, impressed with the importance to medical students of thorough training in the Laboratory in Analytical Chemistry at least so far as it is necessary in their profession request that the Medical Faculty will report at the next annual meeting a scheme for adding such a course of instruction to the Medical Course, due consideration being given to the fee of the student and increased costs to the University.

Referring to the application of Mr Echols to have again the use of the room formerly used by him as an office, and now used by Mr Schele as a lecture room, it is,

Resolved, that Mr Echols be assigned office room in the office of the Secretary of the Board now in his use, the Board regretting that it is unable to make other provision for Mr Schele.

Resolved, that Dr Wm C. Dabney be allowed to practice his profession, provided he can do so without interfering with his duties as a professor in the University of Virginia for the ensuing twelve months.

On motion the Board adjourned at 11 P. M., to meet tomorrow at 10 A. M.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present, the Rector and all of the Visitors, with the exception of Mr Basil B. Gordon.

The following was enacted:

Resolved, that the Executive Committee be and it is hereby instructed to enquire into the expediency of appropriating from the Fayerweather fund, a sum sufficient to erect on the University grounds a building suitable to accommodate the meetings of the Board of Visitors and report to the next meeting of the this Board.

On motion it is ordered that a standing Committee consisting of the Rector, A. C. Gordon and W. Gordon McCabe, on the report of the Visitors to the Superintendent of Public Instruction, be and is hereby appointed.

For the information of the Proctor it is explained that the $1000.00 embraced in the general appropriation as reported by the Finance Committee for the Library, is the same as the $1000.00 ordered by the resolution of the Visitors adopted June 11th 1894, for the purchase of books and periodicals.

On motion it is ordered that the Standing Committee on the report of the Visitors to the Superintendent of Public Instruction be requested to prepare, as early as possible, a paper setting forth the views of a majority of the Visitors on the subject of the admission of women to the University as students.

On motion the report of the Committee on Finance is received and approved and the recommenda\[tions\] are made, which report is in the following words and figures:

Report of the Finance Committee, June 12th, 1894 To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia: Gentlemen,

The Committee on Finance respectfully reports that the Proctor's annual report and the settlement made by the Commissioner of Accounts show a balance in the Proctor's hands for the fiscal year ending June 15th 1894 of $1,970.25.

The income of the University for the ensuing year, including an estimated income of $1,140.00 from the Fayerweather bequest, and the income from student fees, estimated upon a basis of 475 students, amounts to the sum of $49,87500. Adding to the sum last named the balance of $1,970.25 in the hands of the Proctor from last year, we have the sum of $113,748.25 as the available fund for the ensuing year

The sources of said sum will appear from the reports of the Proctor and of the Faculty taken together.

Appropriations.

We recommend the following appropriations= Salaries of Instructors.

It will be seen by a comparison, of the income with the expenses that there will be an apparent deficit, and while the Committee regret that this should occur they do not see how it is possible to omit any one of the appropriations recommended by them, as it seems to then that each and all of them are essential to the maintenance and work of the University. Besides, some of the appropriations now recommended are based upon estimates, and it is hoped that the full amount appropriated may not be used, because not necessary; but they are made, as estimated, upon the best information obtainable by the Committee. They are inclined to believe that the estimate of next years attendance is lower than it should be, and for this reason, in addition, to the others stated, they think the Visitors should make the appropriations as recommended.

From the present outlook, there is no good reason to believe that the number of students next year will be below the number of the present year.

The following communication from the Miller Board was received, accepted and approved, and is in the following words and figures:

On motion, and after conference of a Committee of the Miller Board, with a Committee of the Board of Visitors the following appropriations of the Miller fund for the session of 1894-5=

A copy from the minutes of the Miller Board

Teste,

R. T. W. Duke, Secretary

of the Board of Trustees.

On motion the Board next proceeded to elect a professor of Anatomy and Surgery:

Applications of the following named Gentlemen for said chair were before the Board; viz,

After considering the claims of the respective applicants the following resolution was offered and adopted without a dissenting vote:

Resolved, that Dr W. G. Christian be elected to fill the chair of Anatomy and Surgery for one year and that the Secretary in his letter informing him of his election, explain to him that his election is only for one year.

On motion the Board proceeded to elect the Adjunct professor of Pathology and Hygiene.

Applications of the following named gentlemen for said chair were before the Board, viz,

After consideration of the claims of said applicants the following resolution was offered and the same was adopted by a unanimous vote=

Resolved, that the election of Dr J. Staige Davis to the position of Adjunct professor of Pathology and Hygiene, be for one year, and that the Secretary explain to him this fact in his letter informing him of his election.

The foregoing resolution was adopted after the vote had been taken by call of the roll, as between said Dr J Staige Davis, and Dr C. M. Blackford, both of which gentlemen were in nomination, and which vote resulted as follows; viz

For Dr Davis. The Rector, McCabe, A. C. Gordon, McCormick and Watts.

5 votes

For Dr Blackford. R. W. Martin, T. S. Martin and Patteson.

3 votes.

On the announcement of the vote the Rector declared Dr Davis elected whereupon the foregoing resolution was offered and adopted as above stated.

The following resolution was offered and adopted; by a unanimous vote:

Resolved, that Wm M. Lile be and is hereby elected professor of Common and Statute Law (Part No. 2), Mer. and Corp. Law, in the Law Department of the University of Virginia.

The attention of the Board having been called to the enormous waste of water at the University sinks on motion the matter was referred to the Executive Committee for consideration and correction.

Resolved, that Mr R. S. Rucker be admitted to the privileges of a Student of the University in the Medical Department, conditioned, upon his executing a bond for the amount of his fees & charges, Exclusive of laboratory fees, with security satisfactory to the Executive Committee, the laboratory fees to be paid in cash.

Resolved, that a Committee of three be appointed to confer with a Committee of the Faculty to consider the advisability of adopting a scheme of examination for entrance to the Academic departments of the University, and if they concur in its advisability, they will draft and submit to the Visitors a scheme for that purpose. And that a like Committee of three be appointed to confer with a Committee of the Faculty, to consider the advisability of adopting a scheme of examination for entrance to the Medical department of the University, and if they concur in its advisability, they will draft and submit to the Visitors a scheme for the purpose.

The Rector appointed as the Committee of the Board under the Academic clause of the foregoing resolution,

Messrs McCabe, McCormick, and A. C. Gordon, and under the Medical clause,

Messrs R. W. Martin and Watts and on motion the Rector was added to this committee as its chairman.

On motion the Board proceeded to elect its Executive Committee for the ensuing year, which resulted in the election of

Messrs Randolph, Rector; McCabe, T. S. Martin, Watts and A. C. Gordon.

On motion Profr Wm M. Thornton was unanimously elected Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year.

Resolved, that the Rector & Vice Rector, Mr McCabe, be appointed a committee to accompany the Vice President of the U. S. to the exercises at the Public Hall, to-day.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 9 A. M.

W. C. N. Randolph Rector

Jas D. Jones, Secretary.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present. The Rector and Messrs Watts, R. W. Martin, T. S. Martin & Patteson.

On motion,

Resolved, that the Proctor is hereby authorized to collect the rent of the University Hotel Keepers monthly in advance instead of semi-annually as has heretofore been the custom, at the option of the Hotel Keepers.

Resolved, that the matter of appointing the substitute proposed by Profr Perkinson, to fill his chair during his absence in Europe, is referred to the Executive Committee.

On motion the Board adjourned sine die.

At the annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on the 11th day of June 1894.

Present. The Rector and Messrs McCormick, Patteson, T. S. Martin, McCabe and A. C. Gordon.

The Chairman of the Faculty laid before the Board the Faculty report, the Proctor's report, the annual report of Mr S. B. Woods, Commissioner of Accounts, the various School reports and sundry petitions of individuals.

The Rector appointed Messrs Patteson, T. S. Martin and A. C. Gordon a Committee to confer with the Miller Board.

The Faculty report was taken up, read and considered, with its recommendations.

The following resolutions were adopted=

Resolved, that an appropriation of a sum not exceeding $2000.00 out of the Fayerweather fund be made, to erect on the ground near the Gymnasium, a cottage for the use of the Director, the site to be selected by the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings and the building to be erected under his supervision, provided the site selected shall be approved by the Executive Committee subject to whose approval also shall be the plan of the cottage.

Resolved, that the guarantee of $500.00 for the maintenance of the Alumni Bulletin is hereby continued for the period of twelve months.

Resolved, that the resolution of the Faculty requesting the Visitors to approach the authorities of Charlottesville on the subject of hastening the drainage of Schenck's branch region, be referred to the Executive Committee with the request that said Committee cooperate with the Board of Health under said resolution.

The Rector and Visitors being informed that it is the purpose of the Union Theological Seminary to remove from its present location in Prince Edward County to some other place in Virginia, it is

Resolved, that the Rector & Executive Committee when the occasion arises, or an opportunity is presented, encourage the removal of said Seminary to the vicinity of the University of Virginia, granting it such privileges and benefits as may be in the power of the Visitors, the details of any arrangement hereunder to be submitted to the Visitors for their action.

The foregoing resolution in regard to the Theological Seminary was adopted by a vote of 4 in favor and one against it, Mr Patteson voting in the negative and requested to be so recorded.

Resolved, that $300.00 be appropriated under the recommendation of the Faculty, to be placed at the disposal of the Superintendent Grounds & Buildings for the employment of an expert to examine into the condition of the Electric wires entering private and public buildings of the University.

Resolved, that the Proctor is authorized & directed to refund to Mr J. B. Moses ten dollars deposited but not used for laboratory expenses in the class of Botany.

Resolved, that the Visitors regret their inability to grant the application of Mrs Harris, to erect a house on the University grounds.

According to the recommendation of the faculty on page 4 of the report it is

Resolved, that hereafter the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings employ one person to whom shall be committed, under the direction of said Superintendent, the entire supervision of all the Dormitories, except those on Carr's Hill, such appointee to employ and pay the servants, and by daily inspection to see that they do their duty punctually, the Student paying the same amount as charged at present for the service. Such appointee shall also furnish the rooms, if the students wish him so to do, with proper furniture at a rent to be approved by the Chairman of the Faculty.

Resolved, that Basil B. Gordon, Esq, a member of this Board, be and he is hereby excused from attendance upon this session of the Board, for sufficient cause shown to the Board.

Resolved, that the recommendation of the faculty to reduce student's library fees and the fee of the Librarian during the vacation of the University be indefinitely postponed.

Resolved, that in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty report, the fee of $100.00 charged to the advanced class in the course of Analytical Chemistry be reduced to $75.00 in order to conform more nearly to fees charged elsewhere for similar courses of instruction.

Resolved, that a contingent appropriation of $100.00 as recommended by the Faculty be made for procuring jars and constructing cases for specimens of drugs which are offered without charge to the Department Physiology.

According to the recommendation of the Faculty it is Resolved, that Dr Lambert be authorized to keep the Gymnasium during the coming vacation in the same manner and under the same regulations that obtained during the session.

Resolved, that the recommendation of the Faculty to appropriate $615. to add to & enlarge the Kitchen on Carr's Hill be indefinitely postponed.

At this point in the proceedings Visitor, R. W. Martin arrived and took his seat in the Board.

Resolved, that the sum of $2250.00 be and is hereby appropriated out of the Fayerweather fund to be applied as follows. $1250.00 to the publication of card catalogues of the Library, and $1000.00 to the purchase of law books for the library, the said law books to be purchased under the direction of the Law Faculty.

Resolved, that $1000.00 be appropriated out of the general fund, inclusive of the $45600. interest on the Library fund, to be used generally for the Library in the purchase of periodicals and books.

Resolved, that the Dispensary Committee be and it is hereby authorized to select a medical student who is a licensed druggist to act as druggist at the Dispensary, and that as compensation therefor such student be allowed free tuition in the Medical Department.

Resolved, that a room on either of the Lawns or Ranges be assigned to the Professor of Anatomy & Surgery, provided such assignment can be made without interfering with the present existing contract rights of the students for the next year.

Resolved, that it is the opinion of the Visitors that the recommendation of the Faculty with respect to the insertion in the Catalogue, that the "University College of Medicine" is not connected in any way with the "Medical Department of the University of Virginia", is unwise, inexpedient and wholly unnecessary, and the Visitors decidedly disapprove of such a course, and the Visitors also disapprove of the sending out to the Alumni of the University a brief circular in the nature of a protest against the action of the said University College of Medicine.

Resolved, that the Visitors regret that the want of sufficient revenue forces them to decline any increase of compensation to the assistants in the Schools of Mathematics and Ancient Languages.

Resolved, that the consideration of the petition of the Charlottesville & University Street R-Way Co. for permission to enter the University grounds with its track be indefinitely postponed; and that like action is taken on the appli- cation of the Piedmont Construction & Improvement Co. for a similar privilege.

At this point in the proceedings Visitor Watts arrived and occupied his seat in the Board.

The Board on motion took up the question of the admission of women as students of the University which was discussed and after consideration the following preamble & resolutions were offered by Mr McCormick:

While the Visitors are in full sympathy with the movement looking to the higher education of woman and they deprecate the want of proper facilities to furnish them such advantages, still considering the plan and constitution and believing coeducation therein was never contemplated by the founder of the institution, they, the Visitors feel impelled to deny them admission to the University as students. Therefore

1\. Resolved that women shall not be permitted to enter the University as students.

2\. Resolved that any and all provisions for the registration of women at the University in any way and for any purpose, and which as reported by the Faculty, are unsatisfactory and useless, be and the same are hereby rescinded.

Mr Patteson offered the following as a substitute for Mr McCormick's resolutions=

Resolved that it is deemed inadvisable that women should enter the University of Virginia as students until an adequate preparation has been made for that purpose. But in the event that an Annex is built not nearer than two miles of the University of Virginia this Board deems it advisable and proper that women should receive all of the instruction in an equal manner with men, the said Annex to be under the control of a prudent and discreet matron, and the lectures at the said Annex to be delivered by the University professors to women alone. The want of funds for the present prevents the building of this most desirable Annex which would place women, so far as the University of Virginia is concerned upon terms of equality with men.

A vote was first taken on the substitute by ayes and noes which was called for, and resulted in the rejection of the substitute. The vote was as follows: In favor of the adoption of the substitute: Mr Patteson.                 Opposed. The Rector and Messrs McCabe, McCormick, Watts, T. S. Martin and A. C. Gordon. Dr Martin was not present when the vote was taken. The vote was then taken on the original resolutions and they were adopted by the votes of the Rector, and Messrs McCabe, McCormick, Watts, T. S. Martin and A. C. Gordon. Mr Patteson the only other Visitor present declined to vote and asked that the following be entered of record: "Mr Camm Patteson declined to vote on these resolutions because there are parts of which he endorses, but other portions which do not meet with his approbation".

Resolved, that the recommendation of the Faculty that John R. Page, Jr, be placed on the footing of a Virginia student be declined for the reason that it is not in their lawful power to do so.

Resolved, that Judge John M. White be paid an additional fee of $150 00 for professional services in connection with the Austin legacy, to be paid out of the Fayerweather fund.

Resolved; whereas the matter is distinctly within the authority of the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings, the request of Profr Garnett for repairs to the basement of his dwelling be referred to said Superintendent.

The Board of Visitors, impressed with the importance to medical students of thorough training in the Laboratory in Analytical Chemistry at least so far as it is necessary in their profession request that the Medical Faculty will report at the next annual meeting a scheme for adding such a course of instruction to the Medical Course, due consideration being given to the fee of the student and increased costs to the University.

Referring to the application of Mr Echols to have again the use of the room formerly used by him as an office, and now used by Mr Schele as a lecture room, it is,

Resolved, that Mr Echols be assigned office room in the office of the Secretary of the Board now in his use, the Board regretting that it is unable to make other provision for Mr Schele.

Resolved, that Dr Wm C. Dabney be allowed to practice his profession, provided he can do so without interfering with his duties as a professor in the University of Virginia for the ensuing twelve months.

On motion the Board adjourned at 11 P. M., to meet tomorrow at 10 A. M.

Salaries of Officers:Scholarships and Fellowships:Wages of Employees:Working Expenses:General Expenses.Special appropriations out of the Fayerweather fund, per resolutions of the Visitors.Special Appropriations out of the General Fund.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

19 Professors at $3,000.00

$ 57,000.00

2 Professors at 2,000.00

4,000.00

2 Adjt Profs at 1,800.00

3,600.00

2 Adjt Profs at 1,500.00

3,000.00

Assistant in Law.

1,500.00

Chemistry

1,000.00

Elec and Physics.

1,000.00

Ancient Languages.

800.00

Mathematics.

800.00

Biology.

500.00

Mech. and Civil Eng.

1,000.00

French and Ger.

600.00

Dem. Anatomy

1,000.00

Assist. Dem. Anatomy

150.00

Dem. Pathology

500.00

Director of Gymnasium

1,000.00

Total

$ 77,450.00

Chairman

1,000.00

Proctor

2,000.00

Supt Grounds and Buildings

700.00

Secretary, Board of Visitors

300.00

Commissioner of Accounts

150.00

Librarian

800.00

Total

$ 4 950.00

Miller Scholarships

$ 750.00

Brown Scholarships

120.00

Mason Fellowship

210.00

$ 1 080.00

Janitor & Plumber

600.00

Day & Night Watchman

960.00

Janitor of Rotunda

300.00

Janitor of Museum

180.00

Janitor of Anatl Hall

240.00

Janitor of Gymnasium

225.00

Janitor of Chem. Laboratory

136.00

Janitor of Med. Hall

135.00

Janitor of Annex

135.00

Janitor of Dispensary

100.00

Chairman's Messenger

120.00

Laborers

1,000.00

Total

$ 4,131.00

Alumni Bulletin

$ 500.00

McCormick Observatory

1,610.00

Agriculture & Biology

750.00

Chemical Department

350.00

Physical Department

300.00

Engineering Department

175.00

Anatomical Material

200.00

Mineralogy & Geology

50.00

Dispensary

400.00

Library

1,000.00

Students' Reading Room

200.00

Diplomas

700.00

Printing blanks

150.00

Catalogues

900.00

Advertising

1,200.00

Gymnasium

650.00

Fuel

500.00

Light

750.00

Fuel Gas for Laboratories

200.00

Path. Lab.

250.00

Obstetrics

75.00

Operative Surgery

100.00

Total

$ 11,010.00

Sinking Fund

2,367.00

Interest

6,220.00

Repairs

5,000.00

Commutations of rent

2,400.00

Contingent fund

1,500.00

Reservoir tax

150.00

Total

$ 17,637.00

Cottage for Director of Bymnasium

2,000.00

Library

2,250.00

Fee of John M. White

150.00

Total

$ 4,400.00

Insulation of Electric Wires

300.00

Reimbursement of Mr Moses

10.00

Jars & Cases for School of Physiology

100.00

$ 410.00

Summary of Income & Expenditures=

Income including balance from last year

$113,748.25

Salaries of Corps of Instructors

$ 77,450.00

Salaries of Officers

4,950.00

Scholarships & Fellowships

1,080.00

Wages of Employees

4,131.00

Working Expenses

11,010.00

General Expenses

17,637.00

Special Appropriations

410.00

$116,668.00

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present, the Rector and all of the Visitors, with the exception of Mr Basil B. Gordon.

The following was enacted:

Resolved, that the Executive Committee be and it is hereby instructed to enquire into the expediency of appropriating from the Fayerweather fund, a sum sufficient to erect on the University grounds a building suitable to accommodate the meetings of the Board of Visitors and report to the next meeting of the this Board.

On motion it is ordered that a standing Committee consisting of the Rector, A. C. Gordon and W. Gordon McCabe, on the report of the Visitors to the Superintendent of Public Instruction, be and is hereby appointed.

For the information of the Proctor it is explained that the $1000.00 embraced in the general appropriation as reported by the Finance Committee for the Library, is the same as the $1000.00 ordered by the resolution of the Visitors adopted June 11th 1894, for the purchase of books and periodicals.

On motion it is ordered that the Standing Committee on the report of the Visitors to the Superintendent of Public Instruction be requested to prepare, as early as possible, a paper setting forth the views of a majority of the Visitors on the subject of the admission of women to the University as students.

On motion the report of the Committee on Finance is received and approved and the recommenda\[tions\] are made, which report is in the following words and figures:

Report of the Finance Committee, June 12th, 1894 To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia: Gentlemen,

The Committee on Finance respectfully reports that the Proctor's annual report and the settlement made by the Commissioner of Accounts show a balance in the Proctor's hands for the fiscal year ending June 15th 1894 of $1,970.25.

The income of the University for the ensuing year, including an estimated income of $1,140.00 from the Fayerweather bequest, and the income from student fees, estimated upon a basis of 475 students, amounts to the sum of $49,87500. Adding to the sum last named the balance of $1,970.25 in the hands of the Proctor from last year, we have the sum of $113,748.25 as the available fund for the ensuing year

The sources of said sum will appear from the reports of the Proctor and of the Faculty taken together.

Appropriations.

We recommend the following appropriations= Salaries of Instructors.

It will be seen by a comparison, of the income with the expenses that there will be an apparent deficit, and while the Committee regret that this should occur they do not see how it is possible to omit any one of the appropriations recommended by them, as it seems to then that each and all of them are essential to the maintenance and work of the University. Besides, some of the appropriations now recommended are based upon estimates, and it is hoped that the full amount appropriated may not be used, because not necessary; but they are made, as estimated, upon the best information obtainable by the Committee. They are inclined to believe that the estimate of next years attendance is lower than it should be, and for this reason, in addition, to the others stated, they think the Visitors should make the appropriations as recommended.

From the present outlook, there is no good reason to believe that the number of students next year will be below the number of the present year.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present. The Rector and Messrs Watts, R. W. Martin, T. S. Martin & Patteson.

On motion,

Resolved, that the Proctor is hereby authorized to collect the rent of the University Hotel Keepers monthly in advance instead of semi-annually as has heretofore been the custom, at the option of the Hotel Keepers.

Resolved, that the matter of appointing the substitute proposed by Profr Perkinson, to fill his chair during his absence in Europe, is referred to the Executive Committee.

On motion the Board adjourned sine die.

At the annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on the 11th day of June 1894.

Present. The Rector and Messrs McCormick, Patteson, T. S. Martin, McCabe and A. C. Gordon.

The Chairman of the Faculty laid before the Board the Faculty report, the Proctor's report, the annual report of Mr S. B. Woods, Commissioner of Accounts, the various School reports and sundry petitions of individuals.

The Rector appointed Messrs Patteson, T. S. Martin and A. C. Gordon a Committee to confer with the Miller Board.

The Faculty report was taken up, read and considered, with its recommendations.

The following resolutions were adopted=

Resolved, that an appropriation of a sum not exceeding $2000.00 out of the Fayerweather fund be made, to erect on the ground near the Gymnasium, a cottage for the use of the Director, the site to be selected by the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings and the building to be erected under his supervision, provided the site selected shall be approved by the Executive Committee subject to whose approval also shall be the plan of the cottage.

Resolved, that the guarantee of $500.00 for the maintenance of the Alumni Bulletin is hereby continued for the period of twelve months.

Resolved, that the resolution of the Faculty requesting the Visitors to approach the authorities of Charlottesville on the subject of hastening the drainage of Schenck's branch region, be referred to the Executive Committee with the request that said Committee cooperate with the Board of Health under said resolution.

The Rector and Visitors being informed that it is the purpose of the Union Theological Seminary to remove from its present location in Prince Edward County to some other place in Virginia, it is

Resolved, that the Rector & Executive Committee when the occasion arises, or an opportunity is presented, encourage the removal of said Seminary to the vicinity of the University of Virginia, granting it such privileges and benefits as may be in the power of the Visitors, the details of any arrangement hereunder to be submitted to the Visitors for their action.

The foregoing resolution in regard to the Theological Seminary was adopted by a vote of 4 in favor and one against it, Mr Patteson voting in the negative and requested to be so recorded.

Resolved, that $300.00 be appropriated under the recommendation of the Faculty, to be placed at the disposal of the Superintendent Grounds & Buildings for the employment of an expert to examine into the condition of the Electric wires entering private and public buildings of the University.

Resolved, that the Proctor is authorized & directed to refund to Mr J. B. Moses ten dollars deposited but not used for laboratory expenses in the class of Botany.

Resolved, that the Visitors regret their inability to grant the application of Mrs Harris, to erect a house on the University grounds.

According to the recommendation of the faculty on page 4 of the report it is

Resolved, that hereafter the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings employ one person to whom shall be committed, under the direction of said Superintendent, the entire supervision of all the Dormitories, except those on Carr's Hill, such appointee to employ and pay the servants, and by daily inspection to see that they do their duty punctually, the Student paying the same amount as charged at present for the service. Such appointee shall also furnish the rooms, if the students wish him so to do, with proper furniture at a rent to be approved by the Chairman of the Faculty.

Resolved, that Basil B. Gordon, Esq, a member of this Board, be and he is hereby excused from attendance upon this session of the Board, for sufficient cause shown to the Board.

Resolved, that the recommendation of the faculty to reduce student's library fees and the fee of the Librarian during the vacation of the University be indefinitely postponed.

Resolved, that in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty report, the fee of $100.00 charged to the advanced class in the course of Analytical Chemistry be reduced to $75.00 in order to conform more nearly to fees charged elsewhere for similar courses of instruction.

Resolved, that a contingent appropriation of $100.00 as recommended by the Faculty be made for procuring jars and constructing cases for specimens of drugs which are offered without charge to the Department Physiology.

According to the recommendation of the Faculty it is Resolved, that Dr Lambert be authorized to keep the Gymnasium during the coming vacation in the same manner and under the same regulations that obtained during the session.

Resolved, that the recommendation of the Faculty to appropriate $615. to add to & enlarge the Kitchen on Carr's Hill be indefinitely postponed.

At this point in the proceedings Visitor, R. W. Martin arrived and took his seat in the Board.

Resolved, that the sum of $2250.00 be and is hereby appropriated out of the Fayerweather fund to be applied as follows. $1250.00 to the publication of card catalogues of the Library, and $1000.00 to the purchase of law books for the library, the said law books to be purchased under the direction of the Law Faculty.

Resolved, that $1000.00 be appropriated out of the general fund, inclusive of the $45600. interest on the Library fund, to be used generally for the Library in the purchase of periodicals and books.

Resolved, that the Dispensary Committee be and it is hereby authorized to select a medical student who is a licensed druggist to act as druggist at the Dispensary, and that as compensation therefor such student be allowed free tuition in the Medical Department.

Resolved, that a room on either of the Lawns or Ranges be assigned to the Professor of Anatomy & Surgery, provided such assignment can be made without interfering with the present existing contract rights of the students for the next year.

Resolved, that it is the opinion of the Visitors that the recommendation of the Faculty with respect to the insertion in the Catalogue, that the "University College of Medicine" is not connected in any way with the "Medical Department of the University of Virginia", is unwise, inexpedient and wholly unnecessary, and the Visitors decidedly disapprove of such a course, and the Visitors also disapprove of the sending out to the Alumni of the University a brief circular in the nature of a protest against the action of the said University College of Medicine.

Resolved, that the Visitors regret that the want of sufficient revenue forces them to decline any increase of compensation to the assistants in the Schools of Mathematics and Ancient Languages.

Resolved, that the consideration of the petition of the Charlottesville & University Street R-Way Co. for permission to enter the University grounds with its track be indefinitely postponed; and that like action is taken on the appli- cation of the Piedmont Construction & Improvement Co. for a similar privilege.

At this point in the proceedings Visitor Watts arrived and occupied his seat in the Board.

The Board on motion took up the question of the admission of women as students of the University which was discussed and after consideration the following preamble & resolutions were offered by Mr McCormick:

While the Visitors are in full sympathy with the movement looking to the higher education of woman and they deprecate the want of proper facilities to furnish them such advantages, still considering the plan and constitution and believing coeducation therein was never contemplated by the founder of the institution, they, the Visitors feel impelled to deny them admission to the University as students. Therefore

1\. Resolved that women shall not be permitted to enter the University as students.

2\. Resolved that any and all provisions for the registration of women at the University in any way and for any purpose, and which as reported by the Faculty, are unsatisfactory and useless, be and the same are hereby rescinded.

Mr Patteson offered the following as a substitute for Mr McCormick's resolutions=

Resolved that it is deemed inadvisable that women should enter the University of Virginia as students until an adequate preparation has been made for that purpose. But in the event that an Annex is built not nearer than two miles of the University of Virginia this Board deems it advisable and proper that women should receive all of the instruction in an equal manner with men, the said Annex to be under the control of a prudent and discreet matron, and the lectures at the said Annex to be delivered by the University professors to women alone. The want of funds for the present prevents the building of this most desirable Annex which would place women, so far as the University of Virginia is concerned upon terms of equality with men.

A vote was first taken on the substitute by ayes and noes which was called for, and resulted in the rejection of the substitute. The vote was as follows: In favor of the adoption of the substitute: Mr Patteson.                 Opposed. The Rector and Messrs McCabe, McCormick, Watts, T. S. Martin and A. C. Gordon. Dr Martin was not present when the vote was taken. The vote was then taken on the original resolutions and they were adopted by the votes of the Rector, and Messrs McCabe, McCormick, Watts, T. S. Martin and A. C. Gordon. Mr Patteson the only other Visitor present declined to vote and asked that the following be entered of record: "Mr Camm Patteson declined to vote on these resolutions because there are parts of which he endorses, but other portions which do not meet with his approbation".

Resolved, that the recommendation of the Faculty that John R. Page, Jr, be placed on the footing of a Virginia student be declined for the reason that it is not in their lawful power to do so.

Resolved, that Judge John M. White be paid an additional fee of $150 00 for professional services in connection with the Austin legacy, to be paid out of the Fayerweather fund.

Resolved; whereas the matter is distinctly within the authority of the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings, the request of Profr Garnett for repairs to the basement of his dwelling be referred to said Superintendent.

The Board of Visitors, impressed with the importance to medical students of thorough training in the Laboratory in Analytical Chemistry at least so far as it is necessary in their profession request that the Medical Faculty will report at the next annual meeting a scheme for adding such a course of instruction to the Medical Course, due consideration being given to the fee of the student and increased costs to the University.

Referring to the application of Mr Echols to have again the use of the room formerly used by him as an office, and now used by Mr Schele as a lecture room, it is,

Resolved, that Mr Echols be assigned office room in the office of the Secretary of the Board now in his use, the Board regretting that it is unable to make other provision for Mr Schele.

Resolved, that Dr Wm C. Dabney be allowed to practice his profession, provided he can do so without interfering with his duties as a professor in the University of Virginia for the ensuing twelve months.

On motion the Board adjourned at 11 P. M., to meet tomorrow at 10 A. M.

Salaries of Officers:Scholarships and Fellowships:Wages of Employees:Working Expenses:General Expenses.Special appropriations out of the Fayerweather fund, per resolutions of the Visitors.Special Appropriations out of the General Fund.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

19 Professors at $3,000.00

$ 57,000.00

2 Professors at 2,000.00

4,000.00

2 Adjt Profs at 1,800.00

3,600.00

2 Adjt Profs at 1,500.00

3,000.00

Assistant in Law.

1,500.00

Chemistry

1,000.00

Elec and Physics.

1,000.00

Ancient Languages.

800.00

Mathematics.

800.00

Biology.

500.00

Mech. and Civil Eng.

1,000.00

French and Ger.

600.00

Dem. Anatomy

1,000.00

Assist. Dem. Anatomy

150.00

Dem. Pathology

500.00

Director of Gymnasium

1,000.00

Total

$ 77,450.00

Chairman

1,000.00

Proctor

2,000.00

Supt Grounds and Buildings

700.00

Secretary, Board of Visitors

300.00

Commissioner of Accounts

150.00

Librarian

800.00

Total

$ 4 950.00

Miller Scholarships

$ 750.00

Brown Scholarships

120.00

Mason Fellowship

210.00

$ 1 080.00

Janitor & Plumber

600.00

Day & Night Watchman

960.00

Janitor of Rotunda

300.00

Janitor of Museum

180.00

Janitor of Anatl Hall

240.00

Janitor of Gymnasium

225.00

Janitor of Chem. Laboratory

136.00

Janitor of Med. Hall

135.00

Janitor of Annex

135.00

Janitor of Dispensary

100.00

Chairman's Messenger

120.00

Laborers

1,000.00

Total

$ 4,131.00

Alumni Bulletin

$ 500.00

McCormick Observatory

1,610.00

Agriculture & Biology

750.00

Chemical Department

350.00

Physical Department

300.00

Engineering Department

175.00

Anatomical Material

200.00

Mineralogy & Geology

50.00

Dispensary

400.00

Library

1,000.00

Students' Reading Room

200.00

Diplomas

700.00

Printing blanks

150.00

Catalogues

900.00

Advertising

1,200.00

Gymnasium

650.00

Fuel

500.00

Light

750.00

Fuel Gas for Laboratories

200.00

Path. Lab.

250.00

Obstetrics

75.00

Operative Surgery

100.00

Total

$ 11,010.00

Sinking Fund

2,367.00

Interest

6,220.00

Repairs

5,000.00

Commutations of rent

2,400.00

Contingent fund

1,500.00

Reservoir tax

150.00

Total

$ 17,637.00

Cottage for Director of Bymnasium

2,000.00

Library

2,250.00

Fee of John M. White

150.00

Total

$ 4,400.00

Insulation of Electric Wires

300.00

Reimbursement of Mr Moses

10.00

Jars & Cases for School of Physiology

100.00

$ 410.00

Summary of Income & Expenditures=

Income including balance from last year

$113,748.25

Salaries of Corps of Instructors

$ 77,450.00

Salaries of Officers

4,950.00

Scholarships & Fellowships

1,080.00

Wages of Employees

4,131.00

Working Expenses

11,010.00

General Expenses

17,637.00

Special Appropriations

410.00

$116,668.00

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present, the Rector and all of the Visitors, with the exception of Mr Basil B. Gordon.

The following was enacted:

Resolved, that the Executive Committee be and it is hereby instructed to enquire into the expediency of appropriating from the Fayerweather fund, a sum sufficient to erect on the University grounds a building suitable to accommodate the meetings of the Board of Visitors and report to the next meeting of the this Board.

On motion it is ordered that a standing Committee consisting of the Rector, A. C. Gordon and W. Gordon McCabe, on the report of the Visitors to the Superintendent of Public Instruction, be and is hereby appointed.

For the information of the Proctor it is explained that the $1000.00 embraced in the general appropriation as reported by the Finance Committee for the Library, is the same as the $1000.00 ordered by the resolution of the Visitors adopted June 11th 1894, for the purchase of books and periodicals.

On motion it is ordered that the Standing Committee on the report of the Visitors to the Superintendent of Public Instruction be requested to prepare, as early as possible, a paper setting forth the views of a majority of the Visitors on the subject of the admission of women to the University as students.

On motion the report of the Committee on Finance is received and approved and the recommenda\[tions\] are made, which report is in the following words and figures:

Report of the Finance Committee, June 12th, 1894 To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia: Gentlemen,

The Committee on Finance respectfully reports that the Proctor's annual report and the settlement made by the Commissioner of Accounts show a balance in the Proctor's hands for the fiscal year ending June 15th 1894 of $1,970.25.

The income of the University for the ensuing year, including an estimated income of $1,140.00 from the Fayerweather bequest, and the income from student fees, estimated upon a basis of 475 students, amounts to the sum of $49,87500. Adding to the sum last named the balance of $1,970.25 in the hands of the Proctor from last year, we have the sum of $113,748.25 as the available fund for the ensuing year

The sources of said sum will appear from the reports of the Proctor and of the Faculty taken together.

Appropriations.

We recommend the following appropriations= Salaries of Instructors.

It will be seen by a comparison, of the income with the expenses that there will be an apparent deficit, and while the Committee regret that this should occur they do not see how it is possible to omit any one of the appropriations recommended by them, as it seems to then that each and all of them are essential to the maintenance and work of the University. Besides, some of the appropriations now recommended are based upon estimates, and it is hoped that the full amount appropriated may not be used, because not necessary; but they are made, as estimated, upon the best information obtainable by the Committee. They are inclined to believe that the estimate of next years attendance is lower than it should be, and for this reason, in addition, to the others stated, they think the Visitors should make the appropriations as recommended.

From the present outlook, there is no good reason to believe that the number of students next year will be below the number of the present year.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present. The Rector and Messrs Watts, R. W. Martin, T. S. Martin & Patteson.

On motion,

Resolved, that the Proctor is hereby authorized to collect the rent of the University Hotel Keepers monthly in advance instead of semi-annually as has heretofore been the custom, at the option of the Hotel Keepers.

Resolved, that the matter of appointing the substitute proposed by Profr Perkinson, to fill his chair during his absence in Europe, is referred to the Executive Committee.

On motion the Board adjourned sine die.