 TEI to HTML

#3,013

$1000.

#3 026

1000.

\# 439

$10,000.

440

10,000.

381

5,000.

842

1,000.

913

100.

914

100.

Statement.

Sinking Fund Old Debt.

Amount received of you

$13,970.

Bought $19,400. Va Century Bonds 72 1/4 & 1/4 Com.

14,065.

Debit

$95.

Bonds registered & held for above:

No. 442

$10,000.

382

5,000.

1062/1065, $1000. each

4,000.

1243/1246 $100.

400.

$19,400.

Sinking Fund New Debt.

Amount received of you

1,030

Bought $1,400. Va Cent. Bonds 72 1/2 & 1/4 com.

1 015

Credit

$15

Bonds registered and held for above:

No 1066

$ 1 000.

1247/1250 $100. each

400.

1,400.

Stocks.

No. of Shares.

Appraised value when taken by Trustees or when bought by them in the market.

Market Value Decr 1, 197-

Value Sep 15/98

Boston & Lowell R. R. Co.

250

50,314.67

216

$54,000

226

Boston & Albany R. R. Co.

200

41,407.37

218

43,600

237

Old Colony R. R. Co.

200

35,544.74

184

36,800

191

West End Street R'y Co preferred (par $50)

200

19,249.99

100

20,000

105

West End Street R'y Co common (par $50)

100

8,337.50

Not bought until Feb. 98 83½

8,350

87

American Bell Telephone Co.

50

10,200.00

262

13,100

277

New York, New Haven & Hartford R.R.Co.

25

4,437.49

180

4,500

190

Fitchburg R. R. Co. preferred

100

6,900.00

95½

9,550

105

Boston & Maine R. R. Co. preferred

100

14,800.00

157

15,700

164

Merchants National Bank

50

7,977.50

155

7,750

154

Third National Bank

50

4,500.00

90

4,500

88½

National Bank of Commerce, Boston

60

6,258.75

Not bought until Apl 98 105

104½

East Middlesex Street R'y Co.

25

4,125.00

About 175

4,375

New York Central & Hudson R.R.R.Co

150

17,850.00

Not bought until about Aug 98

117

Ogden & Lake Champlain R.R.Co, Common

50

250.00

Probably worthless

probably worthless

Bonds.

Wisconsin Central 5s

$10,000

6,100.00

34

3,400

53

Wisconsin Central Income

500

3

150

5

E. & O. E.

Boston & Maine p f d. last sale Oct. 7th 1898, at

166 1/4

Merchants National Bank last sale Oct. 8th 1898, at

156 1/8

Third National Bank, last sale Oct. 8th 1898,

88 1/4

National Bank of Commerce, last sale Sep 21 1898,

104 3/4

Ogdensburg & Lake Champlain Common last sale Jan'y 1895 at

1 7/8

do 6% bond receipts of 1920, last sale Oct 5, 1899 at

93 3/4

There is no market for the bonds.

East Middlesex Street Ry. Co, last sale Sep 1, 1894 at

120.

Stocks=

Amount

Market Value.

Total Value

Boston & Lowell R. R. Co.—

250 shs

226

$ 56,500.

Boston & Albany R. R. Co.

200 shs

237

47,400.

Old Colony R. R. Co

200 shs

191

38,200.

West End Street Railway Co. preferred (par $50.)

200 shs

105

21,000.

West End Street Railway Co. Common (par value 50)

100 shs

87

8,700.

American Bell Telephone Co.

50 shs

277

13,850.

New York, New Haven & Hartford R. R. Co.

25 shs

190

4,750.

Fitchburg R. R. Co; preferred.

100 shs

105

10,500.

Boston & Maine R. R. Co, preferred

100 shs

164

16,400.

Merchants National Bank.

50 shs

154

7,700.

Third National Bank.

50 shs

882

4,425.

National B'k of Commerce, Boston

60 shs

1042

6,270.

East Middlesex Street Ry Co.

25 shs

175

4,375.

New York Central & Hudson River R. R. C.

150 shs

117

17,550.

Ogden & Lake Camplain R.R.Co. Common Bonds

Wisconsin Central 5s

10,000

53

5,300.

Wisconsin Central Income

500

5

25

E. O. & E.

$262.945.

Investment in Massachusets Life Ins. Co., face value

80,000.

Real Estate as per letter of Bentley W. Warren, Sep. 24, 1898, say

50,000.

$392,945.

Stocks.

Boston & Lowell R. R. Co.

226 bid.

Boston & Albany R. R. Co.

250 - 255

Old Colony R. R. co.

192 bid

West End Street Railway Co. preferred (par $50.)

106 bid

West End Street Railway Co. Common (par $50.)

86

American Bell Telephone Co

280 - 281

New York, New Haven & Hartford R.R.Co.

190½- 191

Fitchburg R. R. Co. preferred

104 bid

Boston & Maine R.R.Co. preferred.

Merchants National Bank

Third National Bank

National Bank of Commerce - Boston.

East Middlesex Street Ry Co

New York, Central & Hudson R.R.R.Co

115

Ogden & Lake Champlain R.R.Co. Bonds

Wisconsin Central 5s

60 - 60½

Wisconsin Central Income

6½- 7

Private Mortgages

$ 74,550.

Notes

46,200.

Insurance Company Investment

80,000.

Corporate Bonds, (including R.R.Mortgages etc.)

152,060.

Stocks

41,235.

Cash

9,964.

To which add real estate which the Exors were authorized to sell

56,050.

Total

$460,059.

Private Mortgages

$110,533.22

Corporate Bonds

181,520.63

Stocks

49,556.50

Real Estate

18,050.00

Cash (principal)

4,225.84

Total,

$363,886.19

This does not include the Insurance Company investment of

80,000.00

Which if added make a total of

$443,886.19

Mortgages

$ 65,285.90

Corporate Bonds

67,001.83

Stocks

175,927.77

Cash

1,605.40

Total,

$309,820.89

Mortgages

$ 96,800.00

Corporate Bonds

10,500.00

Stocks

207,287.13

Cash

1,293.93

Total,

$315,881.06

At a meeting of

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, held at the University, at the call of the Rector, on the 13th day of October 1898, in pursuance of notice.

Present, the Rector, and Visitors, Bryan, Chandler, Downing, Glass, Harmon, Irvine and Miles.

Absent, Visitor, McIlwaine

The Chairman of the Faculty handed in reports and petitions as follows:

Faculty's report, Proctor's report, Dr Barringer's report on water supply, Report of Dr Barringer, Chairman of the Advertising Committee - External relations etc. - Report of Col Thos H. Carter Chairman of the Committee to organize the local Alumni throughout the country - Report of Prof Kent Chairman of the Committee of Correspondence - Report of same as chairman of advertising Committee on Bilical Instruction.

Petition of Prof. Kent for an appropriation of $200. for the benefit of the School of English Literature.

Petitions of R. K. Crockett, Estes Paine and J. F. Taylor, respectively.

Petitions of M. W. Swartz and L. A. Richards, respectively, for appointment to the John Y. Mason Fellowship.

Petition of W. M. en and J. Stroy Yen, Chinamen, to be allowed to enter the University as students upon the footing of citizens of Va.

After consideration the following was enacted:

Resolved: That the Contract with the Virginia Trust Company for acting as depositary for the securities of the University, together with the Company's receipt for such securities be spread upon the records of the minutes of this meeting. said contract and receipt are in the following words and figures, to wit

Referring to\_interview with you this A. M. in relation to caring for securities and handling the Sinking Fund Accounts of the University. We beg to state our construction of the agreement arrived at and if correct will be pleased to have you confirm same

The arrangement as at present existing and charges made for acting as Registrar and Transfer Agent to continue, but it is understood that the University will forward to us the 153 bonds, say $76,500. for registration. To receive $25.00 per annum for the following, viz, Receive and hold such securities as may be sent us or purchased for account of the Sinking Fund Old Debt, collect income thereon and invest such income or funds that may be sent for that purpose under instructions of the Finance Committee of the University.

The same as above to be carried out as to Sinking Fund New Debt.

November 14th 1898 The correspondence with the Va Trust Company has been returned to me as Proctor and is placed in the safe of the office. Thos H. Carter. Proctor & Supt of Grounds & Buildings To care for the $76,500. University Bonds to be sent us and registered

November 14th 1898

The correspondence with the Va Trust Company has been returned to me as Proctor and is placed in the safe of the office. Thos H. Carter. Proctor & Supt of Grounds & Buildings

If we have made this clear and it agrees with your idea, please so advise.

I am in receipt of your letter of July 19th, I beg to state that my understanding of our agreement concurs with yours therein expressed.

We have your favor of 22d and are in receipt of securities listed in same, by Express. We register on our books 153 bonds $500. each= $76,500. in name of Rector and Board of Visitors of University of Virginia, and hold the same for safe keeping. We have changed Virginia Century Bonds, $28,000. from coupon to registered This cost $3.00, the charge made by Auditor of Virginia for the change. Please remit. We have opened an account "University of Virginia Sinking Fund, Old Debt" and hold following securities for collection of income:

Georgia Pacific R. R. Co 6% Bonds,

Registered Virginia 2 - 3 Bonds,

Account of "University of Virginia, Sinking Fund, New Debt"

Registered Virginia 2 - 3 Bonds

#1,058/1060 $1000. each $3000.

We are in receipt of Virginia Century Bonds $20,800., advised as purchased in ours of yesterday, and have had same registered in the name of the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

We charge the respective Sinking Funds as per statement below and hold bonds for account of same. You will notice that this makes the Sinking Fund Account, Old Debt show debit of $95. and to the credit of Sinking Fund account New Debt $15.

Resolved: That all questions growing out of the joint use of the Old Reservoir and the New Reservoir & pumping station by Charlottesville and the University and also the suggested use by the University of the Sewers of Charlottesville be referred to a Committee of two composed of Mr Harmon and Dr Barringer, who shall confer with the Authorities of Charlottesville on the subjects and make report with recommendations to the next meeting of this Board.

Whereas certain suits have been instituted against the University of Va by several contractors

Resolved: That John B. Moon, att'y, be and he is hereby empowered to take such steps in the premises as in his judgment may be necessary to protect the interests of the Institution.

Resolved: That the application of the P. K. Club for the use of the Gymnasium for their annual German on June 10th 1899, be granted.

Resolved: That the Secretary notify Mr Page the Librarian, that his letter asking for increase of salary, has been duly considered by the Board, and that it regrets that it does not see its way clear to comply with his request.

Resolved: That the action of the Chairman of the Executive Committee and of the Proctor in allowing Prof. Thornton upon his request and representations to transfer to the Mechanical Laboratory the 10 horse power C & C Electric motor purchased to drive the fan for ventilating the Rotunda, for use and to be taken care of in the Mechanl Lab. until it shall be needed for running the Rotunda fan, is hereby confirmed.

Resolved: That the Proctor's bond when renewed, shall be reduced to the sum of twenty thousand dollars, a bond in that penalty being now deemed sufficient.

Resolved: That the Secretary write to Samuel B. Woods, that his communication asking for increased compensation for auditing the accounts of the Proctor has been duly considered by the Board, and it regrets that it can not comply with his request.

Resolved: That the sum of $250. is hereby appropriated to complete the publication of the Annals of Mathematics for the current year.

Resolved: That for the session of 1898-99 both Mr John E. Williams and Mr H. C. Ford be appointed to the Mason fellowship and the of $83.75 is hereby appropriated for the purpose of making up the sum necessary for that purpose.

Resolved: That the Proctor is authorized, if in his judgment it is necessary, to spend $1500. out the Fayerweather bequest when the same is fully and finally settled and received, for the purpose of erecting a dwelling suitable for the Janitor. Meantime the Proctor is requested to take such steps as he may deem proper to make the present residence of the Janitor more comfortable.

Resolved: That the future policy of this Board in awarding the Mason Fellowship shall be to give it to the same person for but one session, unsless special reasons shall be presented why there shall be a departue from this avowed policy of the Board. The said Fellowship shall be awarded by the Board upon applications to be made directly to the Board at its June meeting of each year, and the award must be made to some suitable applicant who was born in Virginia, and unable to attend the University without such assistance.

The application of Prof. Perkinson for the payment of $60. expended in excess of appropriation made for repairs of Pavilion No. 6 having been received and duly considered by the Board,

Resolved: That it is the polocy of this Board not to pay expenditures in excess of appropriations, and therefore it regrets that it can not reimburse the excess expended in this instance.

Resolved: That the John W. & Belinda Randall Charities Corporation gift of $20,000. be expended in the erection of aditional dormitory facilities at the University, to be known as the John W. & Belinda Randall Building, and that the Rector appoint from the Board a Building Committee to correspond with Architects and invite plans and estimates of cost, said plans and estimates to be submitted to a meeting of this Board to be held in February next, for consideration. The Rector appointed as the Committee under the foregoing resolution, Visitors,

Geo. W. Miles, Building Committee.

D. Harmon, & Building Committee.

A. B. Chandler Building Committee.

Resolved: That the sum of $525. be appropriated for the purpose of purchasing law publications, to be selected under the spervision of the law faculty.

Resolved: That the recommendation of the Proctor concerning the painting of the cement work intended to be painted, be adopted and the Proctor is authorized to proceed with said work in his discretion.

Resolved: That the petitions of Profs R. C. Minor and J. S. Davis to be made full professors in the departments of law and Medicine respectively, be passed by for action, until a future meeting of this Board, the Board regretting that owing to the financial necessities of the University it cannot take favorable action on said petitions at this time.

The letter of Mrs Annie Rives Chalmers Owen, of Sep. 11th 1898, written to Mr Daniel Harmon as a member of this Board, relative to a proposed donation to the University of certain articles obtained from the Smithsonian Institution, was read to the Board, whereupon it is,

Resolved: That the Board expresses its great pleasure at the sentiments contained in Mrs Owen's letter and its appreciation of the value to the University of the proposed donation, and of the kindness that prompts the offer. Such donation when received will be accepted by the Board in the spirit in which it is offered, and dedicated to the purposes desired by the donor. Resolved further, that a copy of this resolution be sent by the Secretary of this Board to Mrs Owen.

Resolved That Mr Aubrey E. Strode is authorized to matriculate in the school of Law for 3 months and to pay proportionately for that period.

Resolved That the fees of Mr William Gilmore of Clinton, La, paid this session, in view of his enforced absence, be held available for him for another year should he see fit to return.

Resolved: That the Proctor is authorized to return to Estes Paine, and P. K. Crockett the fees paid in by them at this term, pursuant to the recommendation of the Chairman of the Faculty, and also that to J. F. Taylor be refunded the proportional part of the fees of the last session as requested by him and in accordance with the recommendation of the Chairman of the faculty.

Resolved: That the duties of Dr Wm A. Lambeth be continued as at present and that his salary be increased to the sum of $1500.00, payable as though this sum had been so fixed at the beginning of the present fiscal year.

Resolved: That so much of the sum of $200. as may be necessary be and is hereby appropriated for the entertainment of the Modern Language Association of the United States, at its session to be held at the University in December next, as recommended by the faculty.

Resolved: That all fees and charges against Charles M. Della for the current year be and they are hereby remitted, and the Proctor is directed to repay to said Della any sum already paid by him. This action is taken in consideration of the work of said Della in connection with the Alumni Association of the University.

Mr Joseph Bryan, submitted and read to the Board his report touching the nature and value of the securities in which the estate of Arthur W. Austin, of Milton, Norfolk County, Mass. is now invested. On consideration whereof the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved: That the report of Mr Joseph Bryan in regard to the Arthur W. Austin legacy with papers filed therewith be accepted and spread upon the records.

Said report is in the following words and figures, to wit:

In compliance with your request to make enquiries touching the nature and value of the Securities in which the estate of Arthur W. Austin, of Milton, Norfolk County, Massachusetts, is now invested, I have the honor to report that I corresponded with Mr Bentley W. Warren, one of the Trustees of that estate, and received from him a letter under date of Sep. 24 which I herewith file, enclosing a statement of the Securities and their value as of Sep. 18th which I also file. I sent a list of these securities to Messrs W. H. Goadby & Co. Bankers, of New York, and asked them to ascertain their values, and received from them a letter under date of October 10th giving me the market values of all, save the stocks of three National Banks, the Boston and Maine RailRoad preferred stock, the East Middlesex Railway stock, and the Ogden & Lake Champlain R. R. bonds. The report of Messrs Goadby & Co confirmed the estimate of Mr Warren, adding somewhat to the value of some of the securities. I file herewith a statement showing the value of the securities under Mr Warren's estimate, showing a gross market value of $262,945. In this is not included the $80,000. invested in the Massachusetts Hospital Life Insurance Co. About this wrote Mr Warren, asking his opinion of its value, but have no reply. I should say from the statement furnished in Mr Warren's letter that the real estate is worth about $50,000., and assuming that the $80,000. in the Insurance Co. is worth its face, the total present value of the Estate is $392,945.

The letter of Bentley W. Warren of 24th Sep. referred to above is in the following words and figures, to wit:

I am very sorry that the receipt of your letter just after I had begun my vacation has prevented an earlier reply to your inquiries relative to the investments in the Arthur W. Austin Estate.

Schedule C. of the Trustee's second account shows what the investments of the Trust Estate were at that time. The mortgage investments consist of notes secured by mortgages of real Estate, with the exception of that of Andrew J. Peters, $20,000.00 which was a loan secured by collateral, and which has since been paid. The list of stocks, you will notice, contains a valuation for each stock. In the case of stocks which were in the Estate when Mr Proctor became trustee, the valuation is that put upon the stock by the appraisers. In the case of stocks purchased since Mr Proctor became trustee, which was in the spring of 1894, the valuation represents the cost of the stock to the estate.

I enclose herewith, on a separate sheet, a schedule of the stocks at present in the Estate, showing the number of shares of each stock, and the valuation on December 1, 1897, the date of the last trustee's account.

For your information I would add the following facts about the stocks:-

The Boston & Lowell Railroad is leased to the Boston & Maine Railroad, on an 8% guaranteed annual dividend.

The Old Colony Railroad is leased to the New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad Co. on a 7% guaranteed dividend.

The West End Street Railway Co's preferred stock is entitled to an 8% guaranteed dividend, before the common stock receives anything. In addition to this guarantee, however, the West End St R'y. Co. is leased to the Boston Elevated Railway Co. for twenty five years, on an 8% guaranteed dividend for the West End preferred, and a 7% guaranteed dividend for the West End Common.

The East Middle Six Street Railway Co. is leased to the Lynn & Boston Railroad Co. on an 8% guaranteed dividend until 1901, and on a 10% guaranteed dividend the ninety-one years following.

The Boston & Albany Railroad has paid 8% dividends for many years, and the market value of its shares is an indication of the opinion investors entertain of it in this vicinity

The Bell Telephone Co. you probably are thoroughly familiar with. The New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad Co. has a virtual monopoly of all the business between New York and Boston, and pays 8% dividends.

The Fitchburg Railroad preferred stock pays 4% dividends.

The Boston & Maine Railroad preferred stock pays 6% dividends

The Merchants National Bank pays 6%, and the two other banks 4% each.

The Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railroad Stock, which the trustees held on Decr. 1, last, has been sold since that date, the Estate realizing from the sale $19,150.00.

The West End common, the National Bank of Commerce, and the New York Central Railroad stocks have been purchased since the date of the last account.

The real Estate held by the trustees consists of the following properties:-

Land and buildings on A. St So. Boston. This property was taken by Mr Austin, before his death, on a mortgage, as security for a $25,000.00 loan. At the time Mr Proctor became trustee the property was unoccupied, and the interest in arrears. The mortgage was, therefore foreclosed, and the title to the property vested in the trustees. Since then we have succeeded in finding a tenant of the property, the Ipswich Mills, who are conducting a manufacturing business there. They pay an annual rental of $1050.00. and also pay the taxes assessed upon the property. The assessed valuation of the property is $23,000.00. What its real value may be is very difficult to say, as the demand for property of this nature is not very great.

There is some property, with tenement houses, in the city of Chelsea which is valued by the assessors at $21,350.00. The buildings are of cheap class, so that the tenants are not of the most desirable order, and real property in Chelsea is pretty heavy I doubt if the property is worth any more than the assessed value, and might bring less.

There is a house and lot in the City of Malden, assessed for $3700.00, which is probably all that it is worth, as its present annual rental is only $240.

There is also a small piece of land in the town of Sharon, valued by the Assessors at about $350.00.

There was a piece of real estate in the town of Milton, the greater part of which, however, was taken by the Metropolitan Park Commission, and the small remaining balance of which we have recently sold. This has been the subject of recent correspondence between Col Carter and myself.

Regarding the investment of the $80,000.00 of Massachusetts Hospital Life Ins. Co., I understand that the Company does not make separate investments of the different moneys deposited with it, but treats all such deposits as a common fund, similar to the practise of savings banks, and holing itself liable to pay to the designated beneficiaries, when the trust terminates, the same amount as that received from the original depositor. Over the management of this $80,000.00 fund of which I understand the University of Virginia is ultimately the beneficiary, the trustees under the will have no control, as the trust was created by the late Mr Austin during his life- time.

I might add that most of the stocks mentioned in the schedule enclosed are quoted somewhat higher in the market at the present time than they were at the date of the trustees' last account, December 1, 1897.

The Edward D. Pelletier Mortgage, the principal of which was $1600.00, was a Kansas mortgage taken by Mr James W. Austin, the former trustee, which has been foreclosed by us, but the value of which is, at the present time, entirely problematical.

If there is anything not clear to you, or about which you would like further information, I hope you will let me know, and I shall be very glad to supply it, if possible.

\[For the schedule of stocks referred to in the foregoing letter, see the following page, Page 310, of this record.\]

Replying to your favor of the 30th ult., I would say that in my opinion the $80,000.00 investment in the Massachusetts Hospital Life Ins. Co. is undoubtedly good, and that the University will receive the same when the same becomes payable by its terms.

We give below quotations on the securities which we were unable to furnish in our last letter, viz=

(continued on page 311)

\[Schedule of stocks referred to on P. 309.\]

(continued from page 309)

Since this time the dividend has been increased to 8% and it should be worth 160.

1 Estimated value of the estate of Arthur W. Austin decd as of Sep. 15th 1898, as per statement filed with Mr Bryan's report

2 Estate of Arthur W. Austin - values of stocks & Bonds reported by W. H. Goodby & Co, New York, October 10th 1898, and filed with Mr Bryan's report.

Report of Mr John B. Moon, Atty, in regard to the Arthur W. Austin Estate, returned with Mr Bryan's report, the same being in the following words and figures, to wit:-

To the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Certain papers touching the estate of the late Arthur W. Austin of Milton, Norfolk County, Mass. having been referred to me by your Chairman, I beg to submit the following report thereon

Deposit with the Insurance Company.

Mr Austin, in his life-time, made certain deposits by way of investment in the Massachusetts Hospital Life Insurance Company of Boston, aggregating $80,000., the income from which was go to his three children, Mary, Henry and Florence, during their lives, and the principal to revert to his estate upon their deaths respectively. Their shares or interests were in severalty, separate deposits having been made for the benefit of each of them for life.

Provision of Will.

By his will admitted to probate September 3d, 1884, after providing for certain unimportant legacies, he gives the whole of the residium of his estate to trustees, the income thereof to go his daughter Mary for life, and after her death such residium was to pass to the University of Virginia, but with the further proviso that if the funds deposited with the Insurance Company should yield less than $1200. per annum to each of his three children above named, then the amount accruing annually to each of them was to be made up to that sum out of the income from the residium, and that if Florence survived Mary, then her annuity was to be made up to $2000. per annum from the same source, and if Henry survived Mary, then his annuity was to be in like manner increased to $1600; and in case of Mary's death the trustees were directed to retain such sum from the residium as might be needed, along with the Insurance investment, to make up these annuities.

Interest of the University.

So that upon the death of testator's daughter Mary, the University will become entitled to the residium of his estate (including the funds on deposit with the Insurance Company) but subject however to the charge of an annuity to his daughter Florence, if then living, of $2000; and of annuity to his son Henry, if then living, of $1600., for their respective lives, to meet which the trustees will retain the Insurance investment and enough of the remainder of the residium to cover any deficiency.

The Trust Fund and its Administration.

The papers in hand show the annual settlements made by the personal representative and the trustees only in part, but are sufficient to disclose the following facts

The inventory of James W. Austin, as Administrator de bonis non of the testator made June 3d, 1887, shows assets there in his his hands as follows:

Note= James W. Austin is named as Executor in the will. Why he acted as Admr. de bonis non instead of Exor. does not appear. My surmise is that some one else (probably one A. S. Wheeler) first qualified on the estate between 1884 and 1887, but we have no statement of any of his transactions.

The next settlement we have is the fifth and final accounting of James W. Austin as trustee under the will which shows that on May 25th, 1894, he turned over to his successor, Thos F. Proctor, the following assets:

The above valuation was fixed by appraisers and its diminution as compared with previous statement appears to be mainly due to reduced valuation placed on some of the real estate remaining unsold.

In May 1894, Mr Proctor was substituted as trustee instead of James W. Austin, and September following Wm Endicott, 3d, was associated with him as co-trustee. Mr Proctor appears to have died in the latter part of 1895, and in January, 1896, one of his law partners, Bentley W. Warren was appointed in his place; so the present trustees are Wm Endicott 3d and Bentley W. Warren. Mary Austin appears about 1890 to have intermarried with Mr Edward Carrol of Boston, and the correspondence on file indicates that all of the above substituted trustees were appointed at her instance. Their trusteeship however does not include the Insurance Company investment of $80,000. as to which Walter Austin, at the request of testator's children, Florence and Henry, was appointed a separate trustee to succeed James W. Austin.

The next account we have is that of Messrs Proctor and Endicott, trustees, covering the period from May, 1895, to Jan'y 1896, showing assets on hand belonging to the principal as follows

(Real Estate not shown)

The last account on file is that of Messrs Endicott and Warren, trustees, covering the year ending Nov. 30th, 1897 and showing assets as follows:

While no real Estate is mentioned in these last two accounts, yet the income account of the trustees for the year ending Nov. 1897 shows that they received during that year, in all, from rents the sum of $3179.07, and it would therefore seem that they must hold real estate probably worth 30 or 40,000$, though we have no statement thereof.

In the absence of any report on the real estate it cannot be shown just what the whole estate is now worth. The last report of Mr James W. Austin showed personalty to the value of $345,836.19, while the last report of the present trustees shows only $315,881.06 of personalty, a reduction in round numbers of $30,000.; but it incidentally appears in one of the recent reports that a $15,000. mortgage was foreclosed and the property purchased by the trustees, which would increase the realty and diminish the personalty by that sum; and one half of the $30,000 loss on the personalty would thus accounted for and made up. All the reports of the trustees not being in hand it is impossible to accurately trace the loss of the other half, (if it has been lost.)

Policy of Trustees as to Investments.

It will be noted that when Mr James W. Austin, who held the trusteeship some ten years, turned over the funds to his successors he had not substantially changed the general character of the investments and the relative amounts placed in each line of securities from what they were when he received them, but an examination of the last accounts of the new trustees show that in the three and a half years of their trusteeship there have been made the following changes in lines of investments:

Private Mortgages have been decreased from $110,533.22 to $96,800.

Corporate Bonds have been decreased from $181,520.63 to $10,500.

Stocks have been increased from $49,556.50 to $207,287.13.

The interest of the University calls for the unquestionable security of investments. That of the life tenant for the greater yield of annual income. The stocks in question are for the most part those of New England Railways, of whose status but little if anything is known here. They may or may not be safe securities, but prima facie Corporate bonds are more stable and less speculative in value than Corporate stocks. Whether the interests of the life tenant have been given greater consideration in these investments than those of the remainderman may be a matter inquiry.

The further fact that none of these trustees have ever made any investments in state, municipal or government bonds, the line of securities usually deemed safest, is also perhaps a matter of just comment.

Respectfully submitted, John B. Moon.

May 18th 1898.

On motion the Board adjourned sine die.

Referring to\_interview with you this A. M. in relation to caring for securities and handling the Sinking Fund Accounts of the University. We beg to state our construction of the agreement arrived at and if correct will be pleased to have you confirm same

The arrangement as at present existing and charges made for acting as Registrar and Transfer Agent to continue, but it is understood that the University will forward to us the 153 bonds, say $76,500. for registration. To receive $25.00 per annum for the following, viz, Receive and hold such securities as may be sent us or purchased for account of the Sinking Fund Old Debt, collect income thereon and invest such income or funds that may be sent for that purpose under instructions of the Finance Committee of the University.

The same as above to be carried out as to Sinking Fund New Debt.

November 14th 1898 The correspondence with the Va Trust Company has been returned to me as Proctor and is placed in the safe of the office. Thos H. Carter. Proctor & Supt of Grounds & Buildings To care for the $76,500. University Bonds to be sent us and registered

November 14th 1898

The correspondence with the Va Trust Company has been returned to me as Proctor and is placed in the safe of the office. Thos H. Carter. Proctor & Supt of Grounds & Buildings

If we have made this clear and it agrees with your idea, please so advise.

I am in receipt of your letter of July 19th, I beg to state that my understanding of our agreement concurs with yours therein expressed.

#3,013

$1000.

#3 026

1000.

\# 439

$10,000.

440

10,000.

381

5,000.

842

1,000.

913

100.

914

100.

We have your favor of 22d and are in receipt of securities listed in same, by Express. We register on our books 153 bonds $500. each= $76,500. in name of Rector and Board of Visitors of University of Virginia, and hold the same for safe keeping. We have changed Virginia Century Bonds, $28,000. from coupon to registered This cost $3.00, the charge made by Auditor of Virginia for the change. Please remit. We have opened an account "University of Virginia Sinking Fund, Old Debt" and hold following securities for collection of income:

Georgia Pacific R. R. Co 6% Bonds,

Registered Virginia 2 - 3 Bonds,

Account of "University of Virginia, Sinking Fund, New Debt"

Registered Virginia 2 - 3 Bonds

#1,058/1060 $1000. each $3000.

We are in receipt of Virginia Century Bonds $20,800., advised as purchased in ours of yesterday, and have had same registered in the name of the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

We charge the respective Sinking Funds as per statement below and hold bonds for account of same. You will notice that this makes the Sinking Fund Account, Old Debt show debit of $95. and to the credit of Sinking Fund account New Debt $15.

In compliance with your request to make enquiries touching the nature and value of the Securities in which the estate of Arthur W. Austin, of Milton, Norfolk County, Massachusetts, is now invested, I have the honor to report that I corresponded with Mr Bentley W. Warren, one of the Trustees of that estate, and received from him a letter under date of Sep. 24 which I herewith file, enclosing a statement of the Securities and their value as of Sep. 18th which I also file. I sent a list of these securities to Messrs W. H. Goadby & Co. Bankers, of New York, and asked them to ascertain their values, and received from them a letter under date of October 10th giving me the market values of all, save the stocks of three National Banks, the Boston and Maine RailRoad preferred stock, the East Middlesex Railway stock, and the Ogden & Lake Champlain R. R. bonds. The report of Messrs Goadby & Co confirmed the estimate of Mr Warren, adding somewhat to the value of some of the securities. I file herewith a statement showing the value of the securities under Mr Warren's estimate, showing a gross market value of $262,945. In this is not included the $80,000. invested in the Massachusetts Hospital Life Insurance Co. About this wrote Mr Warren, asking his opinion of its value, but have no reply. I should say from the statement furnished in Mr Warren's letter that the real estate is worth about $50,000., and assuming that the $80,000. in the Insurance Co. is worth its face, the total present value of the Estate is $392,945.

I am very sorry that the receipt of your letter just after I had begun my vacation has prevented an earlier reply to your inquiries relative to the investments in the Arthur W. Austin Estate.

Schedule C. of the Trustee's second account shows what the investments of the Trust Estate were at that time. The mortgage investments consist of notes secured by mortgages of real Estate, with the exception of that of Andrew J. Peters, $20,000.00 which was a loan secured by collateral, and which has since been paid. The list of stocks, you will notice, contains a valuation for each stock. In the case of stocks which were in the Estate when Mr Proctor became trustee, the valuation is that put upon the stock by the appraisers. In the case of stocks purchased since Mr Proctor became trustee, which was in the spring of 1894, the valuation represents the cost of the stock to the estate.

I enclose herewith, on a separate sheet, a schedule of the stocks at present in the Estate, showing the number of shares of each stock, and the valuation on December 1, 1897, the date of the last trustee's account.

For your information I would add the following facts about the stocks:-

The Boston & Lowell Railroad is leased to the Boston & Maine Railroad, on an 8% guaranteed annual dividend.

The Old Colony Railroad is leased to the New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad Co. on a 7% guaranteed dividend.

The West End Street Railway Co's preferred stock is entitled to an 8% guaranteed dividend, before the common stock receives anything. In addition to this guarantee, however, the West End St R'y. Co. is leased to the Boston Elevated Railway Co. for twenty five years, on an 8% guaranteed dividend for the West End preferred, and a 7% guaranteed dividend for the West End Common.

The East Middle Six Street Railway Co. is leased to the Lynn & Boston Railroad Co. on an 8% guaranteed dividend until 1901, and on a 10% guaranteed dividend the ninety-one years following.

The Boston & Albany Railroad has paid 8% dividends for many years, and the market value of its shares is an indication of the opinion investors entertain of it in this vicinity

The Bell Telephone Co. you probably are thoroughly familiar with. The New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad Co. has a virtual monopoly of all the business between New York and Boston, and pays 8% dividends.

The Fitchburg Railroad preferred stock pays 4% dividends.

The Boston & Maine Railroad preferred stock pays 6% dividends

The Merchants National Bank pays 6%, and the two other banks 4% each.

The Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railroad Stock, which the trustees held on Decr. 1, last, has been sold since that date, the Estate realizing from the sale $19,150.00.

The West End common, the National Bank of Commerce, and the New York Central Railroad stocks have been purchased since the date of the last account.

The real Estate held by the trustees consists of the following properties:-

Land and buildings on A. St So. Boston. This property was taken by Mr Austin, before his death, on a mortgage, as security for a $25,000.00 loan. At the time Mr Proctor became trustee the property was unoccupied, and the interest in arrears. The mortgage was, therefore foreclosed, and the title to the property vested in the trustees. Since then we have succeeded in finding a tenant of the property, the Ipswich Mills, who are conducting a manufacturing business there. They pay an annual rental of $1050.00. and also pay the taxes assessed upon the property. The assessed valuation of the property is $23,000.00. What its real value may be is very difficult to say, as the demand for property of this nature is not very great.

There is some property, with tenement houses, in the city of Chelsea which is valued by the assessors at $21,350.00. The buildings are of cheap class, so that the tenants are not of the most desirable order, and real property in Chelsea is pretty heavy I doubt if the property is worth any more than the assessed value, and might bring less.

There is a house and lot in the City of Malden, assessed for $3700.00, which is probably all that it is worth, as its present annual rental is only $240.

There is also a small piece of land in the town of Sharon, valued by the Assessors at about $350.00.

There was a piece of real estate in the town of Milton, the greater part of which, however, was taken by the Metropolitan Park Commission, and the small remaining balance of which we have recently sold. This has been the subject of recent correspondence between Col Carter and myself.

Regarding the investment of the $80,000.00 of Massachusetts Hospital Life Ins. Co., I understand that the Company does not make separate investments of the different moneys deposited with it, but treats all such deposits as a common fund, similar to the practise of savings banks, and holing itself liable to pay to the designated beneficiaries, when the trust terminates, the same amount as that received from the original depositor. Over the management of this $80,000.00 fund of which I understand the University of Virginia is ultimately the beneficiary, the trustees under the will have no control, as the trust was created by the late Mr Austin during his life- time.

I might add that most of the stocks mentioned in the schedule enclosed are quoted somewhat higher in the market at the present time than they were at the date of the trustees' last account, December 1, 1897.

The Edward D. Pelletier Mortgage, the principal of which was $1600.00, was a Kansas mortgage taken by Mr James W. Austin, the former trustee, which has been foreclosed by us, but the value of which is, at the present time, entirely problematical.

If there is anything not clear to you, or about which you would like further information, I hope you will let me know, and I shall be very glad to supply it, if possible.

Replying to your favor of the 30th ult., I would say that in my opinion the $80,000.00 investment in the Massachusetts Hospital Life Ins. Co. is undoubtedly good, and that the University will receive the same when the same becomes payable by its terms.

Stocks.

No. of Shares.

Appraised value when taken by Trustees or when bought by them in the market.

Market Value Decr 1, 197-

Value Sep 15/98

Boston & Lowell R. R. Co.

250

50,314.67

216

$54,000

226

Boston & Albany R. R. Co.

200

41,407.37

218

43,600

237

Old Colony R. R. Co.

200

35,544.74

184

36,800

191

West End Street R'y Co preferred (par $50)

200

19,249.99

100

20,000

105

West End Street R'y Co common (par $50)

100

8,337.50

Not bought until Feb. 98 83½

8,350

87

American Bell Telephone Co.

50

10,200.00

262

13,100

277

New York, New Haven & Hartford R.R.Co.

25

4,437.49

180

4,500

190

Fitchburg R. R. Co. preferred

100

6,900.00

95½

9,550

105

Boston & Maine R. R. Co. preferred

100

14,800.00

157

15,700

164

Merchants National Bank

50

7,977.50

155

7,750

154

Third National Bank

50

4,500.00

90

4,500

88½

National Bank of Commerce, Boston

60

6,258.75

Not bought until Apl 98 105

104½

East Middlesex Street R'y Co.

25

4,125.00

About 175

4,375

New York Central & Hudson R.R.R.Co

150

17,850.00

Not bought until about Aug 98

117

Ogden & Lake Champlain R.R.Co, Common

50

250.00

Probably worthless

probably worthless

Bonds.

Wisconsin Central 5s

$10,000

6,100.00

34

3,400

53

Wisconsin Central Income

500

3

150

5

E. & O. E.

Boston & Maine p f d. last sale Oct. 7th 1898, at

166 1/4

Merchants National Bank last sale Oct. 8th 1898, at

156 1/8

Third National Bank, last sale Oct. 8th 1898,

88 1/4

National Bank of Commerce, last sale Sep 21 1898,

104 3/4

Ogdensburg & Lake Champlain Common last sale Jan'y 1895 at

1 7/8

do 6% bond receipts of 1920, last sale Oct 5, 1899 at

93 3/4

There is no market for the bonds.

East Middlesex Street Ry. Co, last sale Sep 1, 1894 at

120.

We give below quotations on the securities which we were unable to furnish in our last letter, viz=

(continued on page 311)

\[Schedule of stocks referred to on P. 309.\]

(continued from page 309)

Since this time the dividend has been increased to 8% and it should be worth 160.

Referring to\_interview with you this A. M. in relation to caring for securities and handling the Sinking Fund Accounts of the University. We beg to state our construction of the agreement arrived at and if correct will be pleased to have you confirm same

The arrangement as at present existing and charges made for acting as Registrar and Transfer Agent to continue, but it is understood that the University will forward to us the 153 bonds, say $76,500. for registration. To receive $25.00 per annum for the following, viz, Receive and hold such securities as may be sent us or purchased for account of the Sinking Fund Old Debt, collect income thereon and invest such income or funds that may be sent for that purpose under instructions of the Finance Committee of the University.

The same as above to be carried out as to Sinking Fund New Debt.

November 14th 1898 The correspondence with the Va Trust Company has been returned to me as Proctor and is placed in the safe of the office. Thos H. Carter. Proctor & Supt of Grounds & Buildings To care for the $76,500. University Bonds to be sent us and registered

November 14th 1898

The correspondence with the Va Trust Company has been returned to me as Proctor and is placed in the safe of the office. Thos H. Carter. Proctor & Supt of Grounds & Buildings

If we have made this clear and it agrees with your idea, please so advise.

I am in receipt of your letter of July 19th, I beg to state that my understanding of our agreement concurs with yours therein expressed.

#3,013

$1000.

#3 026

1000.

\# 439

$10,000.

440

10,000.

381

5,000.

842

1,000.

913

100.

914

100.

We have your favor of 22d and are in receipt of securities listed in same, by Express. We register on our books 153 bonds $500. each= $76,500. in name of Rector and Board of Visitors of University of Virginia, and hold the same for safe keeping. We have changed Virginia Century Bonds, $28,000. from coupon to registered This cost $3.00, the charge made by Auditor of Virginia for the change. Please remit. We have opened an account "University of Virginia Sinking Fund, Old Debt" and hold following securities for collection of income:

Georgia Pacific R. R. Co 6% Bonds,

Registered Virginia 2 - 3 Bonds,

Account of "University of Virginia, Sinking Fund, New Debt"

Registered Virginia 2 - 3 Bonds

#1,058/1060 $1000. each $3000.

We are in receipt of Virginia Century Bonds $20,800., advised as purchased in ours of yesterday, and have had same registered in the name of the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

We charge the respective Sinking Funds as per statement below and hold bonds for account of same. You will notice that this makes the Sinking Fund Account, Old Debt show debit of $95. and to the credit of Sinking Fund account New Debt $15.

In compliance with your request to make enquiries touching the nature and value of the Securities in which the estate of Arthur W. Austin, of Milton, Norfolk County, Massachusetts, is now invested, I have the honor to report that I corresponded with Mr Bentley W. Warren, one of the Trustees of that estate, and received from him a letter under date of Sep. 24 which I herewith file, enclosing a statement of the Securities and their value as of Sep. 18th which I also file. I sent a list of these securities to Messrs W. H. Goadby & Co. Bankers, of New York, and asked them to ascertain their values, and received from them a letter under date of October 10th giving me the market values of all, save the stocks of three National Banks, the Boston and Maine RailRoad preferred stock, the East Middlesex Railway stock, and the Ogden & Lake Champlain R. R. bonds. The report of Messrs Goadby & Co confirmed the estimate of Mr Warren, adding somewhat to the value of some of the securities. I file herewith a statement showing the value of the securities under Mr Warren's estimate, showing a gross market value of $262,945. In this is not included the $80,000. invested in the Massachusetts Hospital Life Insurance Co. About this wrote Mr Warren, asking his opinion of its value, but have no reply. I should say from the statement furnished in Mr Warren's letter that the real estate is worth about $50,000., and assuming that the $80,000. in the Insurance Co. is worth its face, the total present value of the Estate is $392,945.

I am very sorry that the receipt of your letter just after I had begun my vacation has prevented an earlier reply to your inquiries relative to the investments in the Arthur W. Austin Estate.

Schedule C. of the Trustee's second account shows what the investments of the Trust Estate were at that time. The mortgage investments consist of notes secured by mortgages of real Estate, with the exception of that of Andrew J. Peters, $20,000.00 which was a loan secured by collateral, and which has since been paid. The list of stocks, you will notice, contains a valuation for each stock. In the case of stocks which were in the Estate when Mr Proctor became trustee, the valuation is that put upon the stock by the appraisers. In the case of stocks purchased since Mr Proctor became trustee, which was in the spring of 1894, the valuation represents the cost of the stock to the estate.

I enclose herewith, on a separate sheet, a schedule of the stocks at present in the Estate, showing the number of shares of each stock, and the valuation on December 1, 1897, the date of the last trustee's account.

For your information I would add the following facts about the stocks:-

The Boston & Lowell Railroad is leased to the Boston & Maine Railroad, on an 8% guaranteed annual dividend.

The Old Colony Railroad is leased to the New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad Co. on a 7% guaranteed dividend.

The West End Street Railway Co's preferred stock is entitled to an 8% guaranteed dividend, before the common stock receives anything. In addition to this guarantee, however, the West End St R'y. Co. is leased to the Boston Elevated Railway Co. for twenty five years, on an 8% guaranteed dividend for the West End preferred, and a 7% guaranteed dividend for the West End Common.

The East Middle Six Street Railway Co. is leased to the Lynn & Boston Railroad Co. on an 8% guaranteed dividend until 1901, and on a 10% guaranteed dividend the ninety-one years following.

The Boston & Albany Railroad has paid 8% dividends for many years, and the market value of its shares is an indication of the opinion investors entertain of it in this vicinity

The Bell Telephone Co. you probably are thoroughly familiar with. The New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad Co. has a virtual monopoly of all the business between New York and Boston, and pays 8% dividends.

The Fitchburg Railroad preferred stock pays 4% dividends.

The Boston & Maine Railroad preferred stock pays 6% dividends

The Merchants National Bank pays 6%, and the two other banks 4% each.

The Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railroad Stock, which the trustees held on Decr. 1, last, has been sold since that date, the Estate realizing from the sale $19,150.00.

The West End common, the National Bank of Commerce, and the New York Central Railroad stocks have been purchased since the date of the last account.

The real Estate held by the trustees consists of the following properties:-

Land and buildings on A. St So. Boston. This property was taken by Mr Austin, before his death, on a mortgage, as security for a $25,000.00 loan. At the time Mr Proctor became trustee the property was unoccupied, and the interest in arrears. The mortgage was, therefore foreclosed, and the title to the property vested in the trustees. Since then we have succeeded in finding a tenant of the property, the Ipswich Mills, who are conducting a manufacturing business there. They pay an annual rental of $1050.00. and also pay the taxes assessed upon the property. The assessed valuation of the property is $23,000.00. What its real value may be is very difficult to say, as the demand for property of this nature is not very great.

There is some property, with tenement houses, in the city of Chelsea which is valued by the assessors at $21,350.00. The buildings are of cheap class, so that the tenants are not of the most desirable order, and real property in Chelsea is pretty heavy I doubt if the property is worth any more than the assessed value, and might bring less.

There is a house and lot in the City of Malden, assessed for $3700.00, which is probably all that it is worth, as its present annual rental is only $240.

There is also a small piece of land in the town of Sharon, valued by the Assessors at about $350.00.

There was a piece of real estate in the town of Milton, the greater part of which, however, was taken by the Metropolitan Park Commission, and the small remaining balance of which we have recently sold. This has been the subject of recent correspondence between Col Carter and myself.

Regarding the investment of the $80,000.00 of Massachusetts Hospital Life Ins. Co., I understand that the Company does not make separate investments of the different moneys deposited with it, but treats all such deposits as a common fund, similar to the practise of savings banks, and holing itself liable to pay to the designated beneficiaries, when the trust terminates, the same amount as that received from the original depositor. Over the management of this $80,000.00 fund of which I understand the University of Virginia is ultimately the beneficiary, the trustees under the will have no control, as the trust was created by the late Mr Austin during his life- time.

I might add that most of the stocks mentioned in the schedule enclosed are quoted somewhat higher in the market at the present time than they were at the date of the trustees' last account, December 1, 1897.

The Edward D. Pelletier Mortgage, the principal of which was $1600.00, was a Kansas mortgage taken by Mr James W. Austin, the former trustee, which has been foreclosed by us, but the value of which is, at the present time, entirely problematical.

If there is anything not clear to you, or about which you would like further information, I hope you will let me know, and I shall be very glad to supply it, if possible.

Replying to your favor of the 30th ult., I would say that in my opinion the $80,000.00 investment in the Massachusetts Hospital Life Ins. Co. is undoubtedly good, and that the University will receive the same when the same becomes payable by its terms.

Stocks.

No. of Shares.

Appraised value when taken by Trustees or when bought by them in the market.

Market Value Decr 1, 197-

Value Sep 15/98

Boston & Lowell R. R. Co.

250

50,314.67

216

$54,000

226

Boston & Albany R. R. Co.

200

41,407.37

218

43,600

237

Old Colony R. R. Co.

200

35,544.74

184

36,800

191

West End Street R'y Co preferred (par $50)

200

19,249.99

100

20,000

105

West End Street R'y Co common (par $50)

100

8,337.50

Not bought until Feb. 98 83½

8,350

87

American Bell Telephone Co.

50

10,200.00

262

13,100

277

New York, New Haven & Hartford R.R.Co.

25

4,437.49

180

4,500

190

Fitchburg R. R. Co. preferred

100

6,900.00

95½

9,550

105

Boston & Maine R. R. Co. preferred

100

14,800.00

157

15,700

164

Merchants National Bank

50

7,977.50

155

7,750

154

Third National Bank

50

4,500.00

90

4,500

88½

National Bank of Commerce, Boston

60

6,258.75

Not bought until Apl 98 105

104½

East Middlesex Street R'y Co.

25

4,125.00

About 175

4,375

New York Central & Hudson R.R.R.Co

150

17,850.00

Not bought until about Aug 98

117

Ogden & Lake Champlain R.R.Co, Common

50

250.00

Probably worthless

probably worthless

Bonds.

Wisconsin Central 5s

$10,000

6,100.00

34

3,400

53

Wisconsin Central Income

500

3

150

5

E. & O. E.

Boston & Maine p f d. last sale Oct. 7th 1898, at

166 1/4

Merchants National Bank last sale Oct. 8th 1898, at

156 1/8

Third National Bank, last sale Oct. 8th 1898,

88 1/4

National Bank of Commerce, last sale Sep 21 1898,

104 3/4

Ogdensburg & Lake Champlain Common last sale Jan'y 1895 at

1 7/8

do 6% bond receipts of 1920, last sale Oct 5, 1899 at

93 3/4

There is no market for the bonds.

East Middlesex Street Ry. Co, last sale Sep 1, 1894 at

120.

We give below quotations on the securities which we were unable to furnish in our last letter, viz=

(continued on page 311)

\[Schedule of stocks referred to on P. 309.\]

(continued from page 309)

Since this time the dividend has been increased to 8% and it should be worth 160.