 TEI to HTML

Cash surrender value of four life insurance policies

$18,670 00

His farm of over 1500 acres.

120,000 00

His town property in Pulaski

30,000 00

168,670 00

Milton Wylie Humphreys,

$2050.00

Isaac Kimber Moran,

1460.00

Ormond Stone,

2050.00

At the regular annual meeting of the Board of Visitors on above date, at 8:30 P.M.,

Present: The Rector, Visitors White, Craddock, Oliver, Irvine, Randolph, Superintendent Eggleston, and President Alderman.

The Rector having called the Board to order, Dr. W. N. Randolph presented his certificate of qualification, and took his seat as a member of this Board.

The President presented the following, which was adopted:

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia duly called and held at the University of Virginia on June 11th, nineteen hundred and twelve, at which the Rector and a quorum were present, the following preamble and resolution were unanimously adopted.

Whereas, The Trustees of the Peabody Education Fund has voted to grant to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia the sum of forty thousand dollars to be applied to and used for the erection of a building for the School of Education in this University, to be called the George Peabody Building, and for no other purpose, on condition that this Board agree to contribute for the perpetual maintenance of such School of Education at least ten thousand dollars annually, and the said The Trustees of the Peabody Education Fund is ready to pay the said sum of forty thousand dollars to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to be used for the purposes aforesaid and upon the condition aforesaid, Now, Therefore,

Resolved, that the said grant of forty thousand dollars be and the same is hereby accepted by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and that the said sum be applied to and used for the erection of a building for the School of Education in this University, to be called the George Peabody Building, and for no other purpose, that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the said Board of Visitors of said University agree to and will contribute for the perpetual maintenance of such School of Education at least the sum of ten thousand dollars annually hereafter; that the Rector be and he hereby is authorized and directed to sign and execute in the name and on behalf of the corporation of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and affix its corporate seal to a receipt for said sum of forty thousand dollars to be applied and used as aforesaid and an agreement to so apply and use the same and to so contribute annually hereafter for the perpetual maintenance of such school of Education and to prove the execution of such receipt and agreement and deliver the same, on receipt of said sum of forty thousand dollars.

In connection with the foregoing, the Rector was authorized to execute a receipt as follows:

Received this            day of                 1912, from the Trustees of the Peabody Education Fund the sum of forty thousand dollars ($40,000), in consideration of which The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia agree with the said Trustees, its successors and assigns that the said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia will apply the said sum of forty thousand dollars ($40,000) to and use the same for the erection of a building for the School of Education in said University of Virginia—to be called the George Peabody Building—and for no other purpose, and will hereafter appropriate and contribute each year in perpetuity for the maintenance of said School in said University at least the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000)

In Witness Whereof the said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia has caused its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed and these presents to be signed and executed by its Rector thereunto duly authorized the day and the year first above written.

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, By Armistead C. Gordon, Rector

The President presented the following, which was unanimously adopted,—

Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in consideration of the distinguished service rendered by Daniel Harmon as a member of the Board of Visitors do establish in the Department of Law a scholarship to be entitled the "Harmon Scholarship." This scholarship shall carry exemption from all tuition and University fees and shall be eligible to a young Virginian of ability, character, and need.

Resolved: That the selection of the site for the George Peabody Educational Building be left to a committee composed of the following: viz.-The President, the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds, Chairman of the Executive Committee, Professors Newcomb and Maphis, with power to act, conditioned upon such selection being approved by Mr. Manning the consult- ing landscape architect of the University.

On motion, the Board confirmed the action of the Executive Committee in approving the following resolutions of the Academic Faculty, at a meeting held on May 11, 1912.

"Resolved: That the Academic Faculty recommend to the President and Visitors that C. W. Wagenerbe permitted to count the course in Electrical Engineering which he has completed, as an elective at large for the Baccalaureate Degree. This recommendation is also endorsed by the Engineering Faculty.

"Resolved: That the Academic Faculty recommend to the President and Visitors of the University that W. P. Foster be permitted to offer for the Baccalaureate Degree, in lieu of the regular first year law course, a course embracing the following subjects; Contracts, Brief Making, Equity, Criminal Law, Evidence, Insurance, Negotiable Instruments, Torts, Carriers, and Bailments, Corporations, Agency, Public Corporations, Legal Ethics, and International Law.

"This course is somewhat more extensive and difficult than the regular course. Mr. Foster desires to make this substitution in order that he may receive credit for a full years' work in law when he completes his law studies at the Louisiana State University. The application has the endorsement of the Dean of the Law School."

Mr. Craddock, Chairman of the Finance Committee, having read a letter from Messrs. Kirkpatrick and Howard, concerning the Stearnes loan, it is hereby

Resolved: That said letter be made a part of the minutes of this meeting, and that the Finance Committee is authorized to arrange the said loan as recommended in said letter if they shall approve the same.

The letter follows:

The University of Virginia now holds a balance of $42,500.00 upon the L. P. Stearnes loan which matures in the following manner:

$2500.00 on December 3d of each of the following years, 1912, 1913, 1914, 1915, and 1916, and $30,000.00 in 1918. Mr. Stearnes desires to somewhat change this serial method of maturity, and to negotiate a loan of $50,000.00 that will mature June 3, 1920.

The security offered for this loan is valued by Mr. Stearnes as follows:

The life insurance is steadily increasing each year. As we recall it, it was approximately $12,000.00 when the loan was made three years ago. If the $18,000.00 be deducted from the total amount of the loan, there would be a balance of $32,000.00, which would be only $21.33 per acre upon 1500 acres of his farm land. This does not take into consideration his town property at all.

Mr. Stearnes values his farm at $80.00 per acre. Judging by a sale which we recently made of a piece of adjourning farm lands, and which was by no means as valuable as Mr. Stearnes', we should say that $60.00 per acre is less than a very conservative value upon his farm.

We believe that after crediting this loan by the cash surrender value of the policies that there is certainly not as little as $3.00 of security values for every dollar lent, and as all the policies, except one, will have matured at the time that the proposed loan matures, the value from this source alone will go far towards retiring the amount of the proposed loan.

If the University has not $7,500.00 additional money to put into this new loan, we will cash, at par an accrued interest, by-an endorsement without recourse on the part of the University, $7,500.00 of the Samuel L. Matz loan which the University negotiated through this office.

The advantage to the University in merging the Matz and the present Stearnes' loans into the proposed loan we believe is material. They would have a solid long time loan, upon security which, as far as the life insurance is concerned, would surely increase in value, and they would not be forced to take care of the five bonds of $2500.00 each that will be maturing during the next five years. The original loan on this property was $50,000.00, since which time both the life insurance and the farm have materially increased in value, the farm being cared for in a most prudent manner and is regarded as one of the finest estates in Southwest Virginia.

As you have trusted us largely in the matter of all the securities which we have placed, we wish to say that the proposed loan has our unqualified approval.

If this plan meets the approval of the Board of Visitors, we would be glad to be so informed.

The President presented the following correspondence which was ordered placed on record,-

I have the honor to inform you that in accordance with your recommendation and in conformity with the rules of the Carnegie Foundation, retiring allowances have been voted to the following officers in the University of Virginia, to be paid in the ordinary way through the University.

The allowances of Professors Humphreys and Stone become effective on September 15, 1912; that of Captain Moran on October 1, 1912.

I have great pleasure in acknowledging receipt of your communication of May 10, 1912, informing me that in conformity with the rules of the Carnegie Foundation, retiring allowances had been voted to the following officers in the University of Virginia to be paid in the ordinary way through the University: Milton Wylie Humphreys, $2050.00, Isaac Kimber Moran, $1460.00, Ormond Stone, $2050.00. I have notified these gentlemen of the action of the Foundation and beg to express to you for them their very great obligations. When their resignations are received by the Rector and Visitors, I shall give you due notice.

I am in receipt of a communication from the Secretary of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, which contains this statement, "I have the honor to inform you that, in accordance with your recommendation and in conformity with the rules of the Carnegie Foundation, a retiring allowance has been voted to Milton Wylie Humphreys, to be paid in the ordinary way through the University. This retiring allowance amounts to $2050.00. The allowance of Prof. Humphreys will become effective on September 15, 1912."

I have pleasure in repeating this communication to you, though it is mingled with profound regret that your long and distinguished service to this University is soon to end. You have won the regard and esteem of all connected with the Institution's life, and you will carry into your retirement the affection and good wishes of your colleagues and your students.

I would suggest that your resignation be sent in to me at any moment that may seem to you best. The next meeting of the Board which will consider the matter officiall will be held about June 11.

To you as President, and through you to the Rector and Visitors I hereby tender my resignation as Professor of Greek in the University of Virginia, to take effect September fifteenth, 1912.

For nearly half a century I have been teaching the ancient languages. Twenty-five of those years I have spent at this Institution, working to the best of my smallability; and now my advancing age and its attendant infirmities convince me that my work can be done more efficiently by a younger man.

In severing my connection with this University, I wish to thank you, Mr. President, and through you the Rector and Visitors, the Faculty, and all with whom I have been so pleasantly associated, for the kind and friendly consideration that I have received during my connection with this Institution, which connection I sever with the deepest regret.

I am in receipt of a communication from the Secretary of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching which contains this statement, "I have the honor to inform you that, in accordance with your recommendation and in conformity with the rules of the Carnegie Foundation, a retiring allowance has been voted to Ormond Stone, to be paid in the ordinary way through the University. This retiring allowance amounts to $2050.00. The allowance of Professor Stone will become effective on September 15, 1912."

I have pleasure in repeating this communication to you, though it is mingled with profound regret that your long and distinguished service to this University is soon to end. You have won the regard and esteem of all connected with the Institution's life, and you will carry into your retirement the affection and good wishes of your colleagues and students.

I would suggest that your resignation be sent in to me at any moment that may seem to you best. The next meeting of the Board which will consider the matter officially will be held about June 11.

Having been granted, in accordance with your recent letter, at my request, a retiring allowance by the Carnegie Foundation, I beg that you will kindly transmit to the Rector and Visitors my resignation as Professor of Astronomy, to take effect September 15th, next. In doing so I desire to express to you and the Faculty, as well as to the Rector and Visitors my sincere thanks for the many courtesies I have received during the thirty happy years I have spent at this University. May I also express the pleasure I have enjoyed in watching the growing spirit of progress which during these years has gradually infused       the life of the University, especially during the eight eventful years in which you have been its leader. I wish also to express my pleasure in noting the growing realization of the duty of the University constantly to readjust itself in order that it may with ever increasing efficiency contribute to the higher life of the people. In the firm belief that this spirit and this realization will continue to grow with the passing years, I lay down my work here with pride that I have been privileged for so long a time to be connected with an institution possessed of such splendid traditions, and (what is more important) inspired by such noble ambition to serve. With sincere personal esteem,

I have the honor to inform you that the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching has this day notified me that a retiring allowance has been voted to Isaac Kimber Moran to be paid in the ordinary way through the University. This retiring allowance will become effective on October 1, 1912. The amount accorded to you is $1460.00.

I have pleasure in repeating this communication to you, though it is mingled with profound regret that your long and distinguished service to this University is soon to end. You have won the regard and esteem of all connected with the Institution's life, and you will carry into your retirement the affection and good wishes of your colleagues.

I would suggest that your resignation be sent in to me at any moment that may seem to you best. The next meeting of the Board which will consider the matter officially will be held about June 11.

It has been known to you for some months past that I have had in contemplation the relinquishment of the offices with which the University has so long honored me.

On account of advancing years, and a growing conviction that the rather exacting duties of my office should be committed to younger hands, I believe the time has now arrived when I should take this action, and therefore offer to you, to be by you transmitted to the Board of Visitors, my formal resignation as Bursar of the University, and also as Secretary to the Board of Visitors.

This step is taken, not without regret, that a relationship which has brought, even with its burdens, much of joy, should of necessity be severed.

Permit me to express to you my deep appreciation of the uniform courtesy and forebearance, I have always received at your hands, and likewise from each member of the governing Board, Administrative Officers and teaching staff of the University. And further, let me assure you of my sincere gratitude for your very effective personal interest on my behalf, that has made possible my retirement under the present gratifying conditions.

With warm personal regards, and my very best wishes for the ever-increasing prosperity and usefulness of the University, I am,

I hereby tender to you my resignation as Bursar of the University of Virginia, and also as Secretary to the Board of Visitors, to take effect on October 1st, 1912.

In view of the foregoing correspondence it was-

Resolved: That the resignations of Prof. Humphreys, Prof. Stone, and Mr. Moran be accepted, and the thanks of this Board be extended to each for his long and efficient service to this University.

The following peition was presented by the President; and on motion, the request was granted,-

I respectfully request that I be permitted to occupy my present residence on University grounds, for the year from October 1st, 1912 to October 1st, 1913, at the same rental I am now paying; viz. $200.00 per annum.

Resolved: That Mr. E. I. Carruthers be and he is hereby elected Bursar of the University of Virginia at a salary of $2,200.00, per annum, to enter upon the duties of his office, October first, 1912. This amount, ($2,200.00) is to cover all items; and is understood to include salary as secretary of this Board, salary as Bursar of the Summer School, and $200.00 commutation of rental of residence. Resolved, further, that Mr. Carruthers be required to give the usual bond in the sum of $25,000.00. with some reliable bonding company.

Resolved: That the Bursar be authorized and directed to have the books of his office audited for the year ending July 1st, 1912, by a competent accountant, and a report submitted to the President and the Rector and Visitors, and the same to be made a part of the next annual report.

Resolved: That the complaint of Mr. J. W. Hopewell with regard to the treatment of his wife at the University Hospital, having been submitted for report to Dr. Watts, and Mr. Hopewell having been offered an opportunity of appearing before the Board, and having failed to take advantage of the same, and Dr. Watts having reported that there is nothing in this case to warrant the interference of the Board, the complaint of Mr. Hopewell is dismissed.

Resolved: That the secretary be directed to send a copy of this resolution to Mr. J. W. Hopewell, Mt. Solon, Virginia.

On motion, the Board adjourned subject to call.

Cash surrender value of four life insurance policies

$18,670 00

His farm of over 1500 acres.

120,000 00

His town property in Pulaski

30,000 00

168,670 00

The University of Virginia now holds a balance of $42,500.00 upon the L. P. Stearnes loan which matures in the following manner:

$2500.00 on December 3d of each of the following years, 1912, 1913, 1914, 1915, and 1916, and $30,000.00 in 1918. Mr. Stearnes desires to somewhat change this serial method of maturity, and to negotiate a loan of $50,000.00 that will mature June 3, 1920.

The security offered for this loan is valued by Mr. Stearnes as follows:

The life insurance is steadily increasing each year. As we recall it, it was approximately $12,000.00 when the loan was made three years ago. If the $18,000.00 be deducted from the total amount of the loan, there would be a balance of $32,000.00, which would be only $21.33 per acre upon 1500 acres of his farm land. This does not take into consideration his town property at all.

Mr. Stearnes values his farm at $80.00 per acre. Judging by a sale which we recently made of a piece of adjourning farm lands, and which was by no means as valuable as Mr. Stearnes', we should say that $60.00 per acre is less than a very conservative value upon his farm.

We believe that after crediting this loan by the cash surrender value of the policies that there is certainly not as little as $3.00 of security values for every dollar lent, and as all the policies, except one, will have matured at the time that the proposed loan matures, the value from this source alone will go far towards retiring the amount of the proposed loan.

If the University has not $7,500.00 additional money to put into this new loan, we will cash, at par an accrued interest, by-an endorsement without recourse on the part of the University, $7,500.00 of the Samuel L. Matz loan which the University negotiated through this office.

The advantage to the University in merging the Matz and the present Stearnes' loans into the proposed loan we believe is material. They would have a solid long time loan, upon security which, as far as the life insurance is concerned, would surely increase in value, and they would not be forced to take care of the five bonds of $2500.00 each that will be maturing during the next five years. The original loan on this property was $50,000.00, since which time both the life insurance and the farm have materially increased in value, the farm being cared for in a most prudent manner and is regarded as one of the finest estates in Southwest Virginia.

As you have trusted us largely in the matter of all the securities which we have placed, we wish to say that the proposed loan has our unqualified approval.

If this plan meets the approval of the Board of Visitors, we would be glad to be so informed.

Milton Wylie Humphreys,

$2050.00

Isaac Kimber Moran,

1460.00

Ormond Stone,

2050.00

I have the honor to inform you that in accordance with your recommendation and in conformity with the rules of the Carnegie Foundation, retiring allowances have been voted to the following officers in the University of Virginia, to be paid in the ordinary way through the University.

The allowances of Professors Humphreys and Stone become effective on September 15, 1912; that of Captain Moran on October 1, 1912.

I have great pleasure in acknowledging receipt of your communication of May 10, 1912, informing me that in conformity with the rules of the Carnegie Foundation, retiring allowances had been voted to the following officers in the University of Virginia to be paid in the ordinary way through the University: Milton Wylie Humphreys, $2050.00, Isaac Kimber Moran, $1460.00, Ormond Stone, $2050.00. I have notified these gentlemen of the action of the Foundation and beg to express to you for them their very great obligations. When their resignations are received by the Rector and Visitors, I shall give you due notice.

I am in receipt of a communication from the Secretary of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, which contains this statement, "I have the honor to inform you that, in accordance with your recommendation and in conformity with the rules of the Carnegie Foundation, a retiring allowance has been voted to Milton Wylie Humphreys, to be paid in the ordinary way through the University. This retiring allowance amounts to $2050.00. The allowance of Prof. Humphreys will become effective on September 15, 1912."

I have pleasure in repeating this communication to you, though it is mingled with profound regret that your long and distinguished service to this University is soon to end. You have won the regard and esteem of all connected with the Institution's life, and you will carry into your retirement the affection and good wishes of your colleagues and your students.

I would suggest that your resignation be sent in to me at any moment that may seem to you best. The next meeting of the Board which will consider the matter officiall will be held about June 11.

To you as President, and through you to the Rector and Visitors I hereby tender my resignation as Professor of Greek in the University of Virginia, to take effect September fifteenth, 1912.

For nearly half a century I have been teaching the ancient languages. Twenty-five of those years I have spent at this Institution, working to the best of my smallability; and now my advancing age and its attendant infirmities convince me that my work can be done more efficiently by a younger man.

In severing my connection with this University, I wish to thank you, Mr. President, and through you the Rector and Visitors, the Faculty, and all with whom I have been so pleasantly associated, for the kind and friendly consideration that I have received during my connection with this Institution, which connection I sever with the deepest regret.

I am in receipt of a communication from the Secretary of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching which contains this statement, "I have the honor to inform you that, in accordance with your recommendation and in conformity with the rules of the Carnegie Foundation, a retiring allowance has been voted to Ormond Stone, to be paid in the ordinary way through the University. This retiring allowance amounts to $2050.00. The allowance of Professor Stone will become effective on September 15, 1912."

I have pleasure in repeating this communication to you, though it is mingled with profound regret that your long and distinguished service to this University is soon to end. You have won the regard and esteem of all connected with the Institution's life, and you will carry into your retirement the affection and good wishes of your colleagues and students.

I would suggest that your resignation be sent in to me at any moment that may seem to you best. The next meeting of the Board which will consider the matter officially will be held about June 11.

Having been granted, in accordance with your recent letter, at my request, a retiring allowance by the Carnegie Foundation, I beg that you will kindly transmit to the Rector and Visitors my resignation as Professor of Astronomy, to take effect September 15th, next. In doing so I desire to express to you and the Faculty, as well as to the Rector and Visitors my sincere thanks for the many courtesies I have received during the thirty happy years I have spent at this University. May I also express the pleasure I have enjoyed in watching the growing spirit of progress which during these years has gradually infused       the life of the University, especially during the eight eventful years in which you have been its leader. I wish also to express my pleasure in noting the growing realization of the duty of the University constantly to readjust itself in order that it may with ever increasing efficiency contribute to the higher life of the people. In the firm belief that this spirit and this realization will continue to grow with the passing years, I lay down my work here with pride that I have been privileged for so long a time to be connected with an institution possessed of such splendid traditions, and (what is more important) inspired by such noble ambition to serve. With sincere personal esteem,

I have the honor to inform you that the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching has this day notified me that a retiring allowance has been voted to Isaac Kimber Moran to be paid in the ordinary way through the University. This retiring allowance will become effective on October 1, 1912. The amount accorded to you is $1460.00.

I have pleasure in repeating this communication to you, though it is mingled with profound regret that your long and distinguished service to this University is soon to end. You have won the regard and esteem of all connected with the Institution's life, and you will carry into your retirement the affection and good wishes of your colleagues.

I would suggest that your resignation be sent in to me at any moment that may seem to you best. The next meeting of the Board which will consider the matter officially will be held about June 11.

It has been known to you for some months past that I have had in contemplation the relinquishment of the offices with which the University has so long honored me.

On account of advancing years, and a growing conviction that the rather exacting duties of my office should be committed to younger hands, I believe the time has now arrived when I should take this action, and therefore offer to you, to be by you transmitted to the Board of Visitors, my formal resignation as Bursar of the University, and also as Secretary to the Board of Visitors.

This step is taken, not without regret, that a relationship which has brought, even with its burdens, much of joy, should of necessity be severed.

Permit me to express to you my deep appreciation of the uniform courtesy and forebearance, I have always received at your hands, and likewise from each member of the governing Board, Administrative Officers and teaching staff of the University. And further, let me assure you of my sincere gratitude for your very effective personal interest on my behalf, that has made possible my retirement under the present gratifying conditions.

With warm personal regards, and my very best wishes for the ever-increasing prosperity and usefulness of the University, I am,

I hereby tender to you my resignation as Bursar of the University of Virginia, and also as Secretary to the Board of Visitors, to take effect on October 1st, 1912.

I respectfully request that I be permitted to occupy my present residence on University grounds, for the year from October 1st, 1912 to October 1st, 1913, at the same rental I am now paying; viz. $200.00 per annum.

Cash surrender value of four life insurance policies

$18,670 00

His farm of over 1500 acres.

120,000 00

His town property in Pulaski

30,000 00

168,670 00

The University of Virginia now holds a balance of $42,500.00 upon the L. P. Stearnes loan which matures in the following manner:

$2500.00 on December 3d of each of the following years, 1912, 1913, 1914, 1915, and 1916, and $30,000.00 in 1918. Mr. Stearnes desires to somewhat change this serial method of maturity, and to negotiate a loan of $50,000.00 that will mature June 3, 1920.

The security offered for this loan is valued by Mr. Stearnes as follows:

The life insurance is steadily increasing each year. As we recall it, it was approximately $12,000.00 when the loan was made three years ago. If the $18,000.00 be deducted from the total amount of the loan, there would be a balance of $32,000.00, which would be only $21.33 per acre upon 1500 acres of his farm land. This does not take into consideration his town property at all.

Mr. Stearnes values his farm at $80.00 per acre. Judging by a sale which we recently made of a piece of adjourning farm lands, and which was by no means as valuable as Mr. Stearnes', we should say that $60.00 per acre is less than a very conservative value upon his farm.

We believe that after crediting this loan by the cash surrender value of the policies that there is certainly not as little as $3.00 of security values for every dollar lent, and as all the policies, except one, will have matured at the time that the proposed loan matures, the value from this source alone will go far towards retiring the amount of the proposed loan.

If the University has not $7,500.00 additional money to put into this new loan, we will cash, at par an accrued interest, by-an endorsement without recourse on the part of the University, $7,500.00 of the Samuel L. Matz loan which the University negotiated through this office.

The advantage to the University in merging the Matz and the present Stearnes' loans into the proposed loan we believe is material. They would have a solid long time loan, upon security which, as far as the life insurance is concerned, would surely increase in value, and they would not be forced to take care of the five bonds of $2500.00 each that will be maturing during the next five years. The original loan on this property was $50,000.00, since which time both the life insurance and the farm have materially increased in value, the farm being cared for in a most prudent manner and is regarded as one of the finest estates in Southwest Virginia.

As you have trusted us largely in the matter of all the securities which we have placed, we wish to say that the proposed loan has our unqualified approval.

If this plan meets the approval of the Board of Visitors, we would be glad to be so informed.

Milton Wylie Humphreys,

$2050.00

Isaac Kimber Moran,

1460.00

Ormond Stone,

2050.00

I have the honor to inform you that in accordance with your recommendation and in conformity with the rules of the Carnegie Foundation, retiring allowances have been voted to the following officers in the University of Virginia, to be paid in the ordinary way through the University.

The allowances of Professors Humphreys and Stone become effective on September 15, 1912; that of Captain Moran on October 1, 1912.

I have great pleasure in acknowledging receipt of your communication of May 10, 1912, informing me that in conformity with the rules of the Carnegie Foundation, retiring allowances had been voted to the following officers in the University of Virginia to be paid in the ordinary way through the University: Milton Wylie Humphreys, $2050.00, Isaac Kimber Moran, $1460.00, Ormond Stone, $2050.00. I have notified these gentlemen of the action of the Foundation and beg to express to you for them their very great obligations. When their resignations are received by the Rector and Visitors, I shall give you due notice.

I am in receipt of a communication from the Secretary of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, which contains this statement, "I have the honor to inform you that, in accordance with your recommendation and in conformity with the rules of the Carnegie Foundation, a retiring allowance has been voted to Milton Wylie Humphreys, to be paid in the ordinary way through the University. This retiring allowance amounts to $2050.00. The allowance of Prof. Humphreys will become effective on September 15, 1912."

I have pleasure in repeating this communication to you, though it is mingled with profound regret that your long and distinguished service to this University is soon to end. You have won the regard and esteem of all connected with the Institution's life, and you will carry into your retirement the affection and good wishes of your colleagues and your students.

I would suggest that your resignation be sent in to me at any moment that may seem to you best. The next meeting of the Board which will consider the matter officiall will be held about June 11.

To you as President, and through you to the Rector and Visitors I hereby tender my resignation as Professor of Greek in the University of Virginia, to take effect September fifteenth, 1912.

For nearly half a century I have been teaching the ancient languages. Twenty-five of those years I have spent at this Institution, working to the best of my smallability; and now my advancing age and its attendant infirmities convince me that my work can be done more efficiently by a younger man.

In severing my connection with this University, I wish to thank you, Mr. President, and through you the Rector and Visitors, the Faculty, and all with whom I have been so pleasantly associated, for the kind and friendly consideration that I have received during my connection with this Institution, which connection I sever with the deepest regret.

I am in receipt of a communication from the Secretary of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching which contains this statement, "I have the honor to inform you that, in accordance with your recommendation and in conformity with the rules of the Carnegie Foundation, a retiring allowance has been voted to Ormond Stone, to be paid in the ordinary way through the University. This retiring allowance amounts to $2050.00. The allowance of Professor Stone will become effective on September 15, 1912."

I have pleasure in repeating this communication to you, though it is mingled with profound regret that your long and distinguished service to this University is soon to end. You have won the regard and esteem of all connected with the Institution's life, and you will carry into your retirement the affection and good wishes of your colleagues and students.

I would suggest that your resignation be sent in to me at any moment that may seem to you best. The next meeting of the Board which will consider the matter officially will be held about June 11.

Having been granted, in accordance with your recent letter, at my request, a retiring allowance by the Carnegie Foundation, I beg that you will kindly transmit to the Rector and Visitors my resignation as Professor of Astronomy, to take effect September 15th, next. In doing so I desire to express to you and the Faculty, as well as to the Rector and Visitors my sincere thanks for the many courtesies I have received during the thirty happy years I have spent at this University. May I also express the pleasure I have enjoyed in watching the growing spirit of progress which during these years has gradually infused       the life of the University, especially during the eight eventful years in which you have been its leader. I wish also to express my pleasure in noting the growing realization of the duty of the University constantly to readjust itself in order that it may with ever increasing efficiency contribute to the higher life of the people. In the firm belief that this spirit and this realization will continue to grow with the passing years, I lay down my work here with pride that I have been privileged for so long a time to be connected with an institution possessed of such splendid traditions, and (what is more important) inspired by such noble ambition to serve. With sincere personal esteem,

I have the honor to inform you that the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching has this day notified me that a retiring allowance has been voted to Isaac Kimber Moran to be paid in the ordinary way through the University. This retiring allowance will become effective on October 1, 1912. The amount accorded to you is $1460.00.

I have pleasure in repeating this communication to you, though it is mingled with profound regret that your long and distinguished service to this University is soon to end. You have won the regard and esteem of all connected with the Institution's life, and you will carry into your retirement the affection and good wishes of your colleagues.

I would suggest that your resignation be sent in to me at any moment that may seem to you best. The next meeting of the Board which will consider the matter officially will be held about June 11.

It has been known to you for some months past that I have had in contemplation the relinquishment of the offices with which the University has so long honored me.

On account of advancing years, and a growing conviction that the rather exacting duties of my office should be committed to younger hands, I believe the time has now arrived when I should take this action, and therefore offer to you, to be by you transmitted to the Board of Visitors, my formal resignation as Bursar of the University, and also as Secretary to the Board of Visitors.

This step is taken, not without regret, that a relationship which has brought, even with its burdens, much of joy, should of necessity be severed.

Permit me to express to you my deep appreciation of the uniform courtesy and forebearance, I have always received at your hands, and likewise from each member of the governing Board, Administrative Officers and teaching staff of the University. And further, let me assure you of my sincere gratitude for your very effective personal interest on my behalf, that has made possible my retirement under the present gratifying conditions.

With warm personal regards, and my very best wishes for the ever-increasing prosperity and usefulness of the University, I am,

I hereby tender to you my resignation as Bursar of the University of Virginia, and also as Secretary to the Board of Visitors, to take effect on October 1st, 1912.

I respectfully request that I be permitted to occupy my present residence on University grounds, for the year from October 1st, 1912 to October 1st, 1913, at the same rental I am now paying; viz. $200.00 per annum.