 TEI to HTML

College

441

Department of Graduate Studies

45

Department of Law

271

Department of Medicine

109

Department of Engineering

102 Total 968

Pursuant to call of the Rector, the Board met on this date at three o'clock in the Administration Building.

There were present the Rector, the President, Mr. White, Mr. Hatton, Mr. Craddock, Mr. Irvine, Mr. Michie, and Dr. Drewry.

This being the first meeting at which Dr. Alderman has been present since his departure from the University in November, 1912, in search of renewed health, he took occasion to thank the Board for its untiring labors in solving the many weighty problems which had confronted them during the past two years, and to express his deep appreciation of the patience manifested by the Board during his fight for restoration to health. He also wished to express his appreciation of the services rendered by Dr. James M. Page, Acting President, and to thank him for the splendid manner in which the affairs of the University had been conducted in his absence.

The Rector, on behalf of the Board, replied to the remarks of the President and assured him that the labor rendered had been a labor of love and of appreciation of the great fight he was making for restored health, in order that he might better serve the University, and that in all the work of the Board during these two years, a determination to take the burden from the shoulders of the President during his illness, had been manifested.

The President then took up the regular order of business. He read for the information of the Board, the registration for the session of 1914-15 to date, as follows:

less duplicates, 27, making individual registration, 941

The President read the following list of gifts to the University.

$10,000 creating Lee Loan Fund.

$ 2,012.33 from Mr. Thomas F. Ryan for hospital.

Bronze Statue of Thomas Jefferson by Mr. Charles R. Crane.

$300 Legacy of Oliveira Andrews, Baltimore, alumnus U. of Va.

$800 from Mr. Charles R. Crane.

$200 Sarah E. Wright Memorial from Miss M. L. Pennybacker.

Collection of Minerals for Museum by Mrs. Henry F. Ellinwood.

Gift of 100 books from Mr. W. D. Weaver to Engineering Dept.

Gift of books from Mr. R. L. Preston, Meadow Brook.

Portrait of Dr. P. B. Barringer by Medical Alumni of U. of Va

A letter of Jefferson's (1821) by Miss Mary Madison McGuire.

Portrait of Mr. John L. Williams. - - - -F. H. Smith.

Set of Ivory Chessmen by Mrs. D. E. Conklin.

Adams Fellowship in Astronomy ($1250) for one year. Dr. Mitchell.

It was deemed desirable that proper appreciation of the several gifts should be shown; whereupon, the following resolution, offered by Mr. Hatton, was adopted:

Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors of the University instruct the President of the University to make appropriate acknowledgement, on their behalf, of all gifts reported at this meeting to the University, and to express to each giver the thanks of the Visitors and the Institution.

The President stated that after much effort, a suitable young man had been found for the head of the School of Forestry, authorized to be established here by Act of Legislature, and requested the adoption of the following resolution, and it was unanimously adopted:

Resolved: That the sum of $2,500 be and is hereby appropriated for the Forestry work, and $2,500 for the salary of the State Forester of Virginia for the year beginning March 20, 1915, under the conditions set forth in the Legislative Act of March 21, 1914, creating the office of State Forester.

Resolved, further: That Mr. R. Chapin Jones, now State Forester of Virginia, and formerly Associate State Forester of Maryland, be and is hereby elected Associate Professor of Forestry in the University of Virginia without other salary than that appropriated for the salary of State Forester.

Col. Eugene Massie and Mr. Geo. Perkins, constituting a committee from the Miller Board of Trustees, appeared before the Board of Visitors in the matter of filling the existing vacancy in the Professorship of Biology, and asked that a committee be appointed from the Board of Visitors to confer with them on March 16th. This was agreed to, and the Rector requested the President, Dean Page and Mr. Michie to act as said Committee.

The President stated that at a meeting of the Alumni Board of Trustees that the question of turning over the gift of Mr. Chas. Steele to the University for the purpose of erecting a wing to the hospital, was brought up and favorably passed upon, as expressed in the following resolution of said Alumni Board.

Now, therefore, be it resolved that the contribution of Mr. Charles Steele, which originally consisted of $20,000 in cash and $30,000 par value of Southern Railway Company and General Mortgage 4% bonds, be held by the Treasurer of this Board subject to the order of the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, to be applied by the Rector and Board of Visitors, when received by them, to the purpose designated by Mr. Steele in his letter herein referred to.

Be it further resolved: That, inasmuch as the said Development and General Mortgage Bonds are now in the hands of the Treasurer in kind and can be transferred in kind to the Rector and Board of Visitors but the $20,000 in cash having been invested by the Treasurer in securities which are a part of the general endowment fund, such securities being now depreciated in value below the price at which they were bought, and it being considered proper that such $20,000 contribution should bear its fair proportion of such depreciation, the Treasurer is directed to determine what is the fair proportion of such depreciation by applying thereto its salable share of the total depreciation of all the securities forming a partof such fund, and he shall pay over to the Rector and Board of Visitors, on their order, so much of said $20,000 as may remain after charging against said fund its proper part of such depreciation ascertained as above provided, and the Treasurer is hereby authorized to sell so many securities belonging to said endowment fund as may be necessary to provide the money to make such payment; it being understood with the Rector and Visitors that the said $30,000 par value of Southern Railway development and General Mortgage bonds and the amount of money, ascertained as aforesaid, shall be accepted by them in full of the said contribution made by Mr. Steele directed in his said letter to be so paid over.

The President stated that, acting under direction of the Rector and Visitors, he had requested a committee consisting of Messrs. Michie, of the Board, Whitehead, Watts, and Lambeth, of the Medical Faculty, to take up the matter of an architect for the new wing of the Hospital, and that their choice had fallen upon Mr. Walter D. Blair, of New York, an alumnus of this University.

The President laid before the Board some correspondence from the Trustees of the Roanoke Rapids School Board, of North Carolina, asking for the gift and conveyance of a certain lot located there, on which it was purposed to erect a school building, said lot being one bequeathed jointly to the University of Virginia and the University of North Carolina under the will of John Armstrong Chaloner of "Merrie Mills," virginia.

The question as to whether or not the University of Virginia has the right to join in a deed conveying its rights in this property, was discussed at length, and owing to the uncertain position of the University in the premises, the whole matter was referred to the Rector to investigate.

The President stated that the Alumni Recorder, L. D. Crenshaw, was doing a great deal of work for the University in the matter of advertising and soliciting new students, and that it had been found impossible to finance his office with the income from the contributions made for the purpose, and asked the Board to supplement the amount by the sum of $1,500 for the current fiscal year; whereupon, the following was adopted.

Resolved: That the sum of $1,500 be and is hereby appropriated for thecurrent fiscal year, for the maintenance of the Office of the Alumni Recorder, provided the sum of $2,000 is appropriated from other sources for the maintenance of said office.

At the request of the President, the following appropriations were made:

$200 to provide microscopes for the Biological Laboratory.

$355 to cover the expenses of assembling and transmitting to the Exposition grounds, a suitable educational exhibit for the University of Virginia at the Panama-Pacific Exposition.

The Executive Committee, to which was referred the petition of the University Cemetery Association for enlargement of the University Cemetery, presented the following report thereon, which was adopted.

After consideration of the petition of the University Cemetery Endowment Association, and the estimate of the costs of the proposed addition, by the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, the Executive Committee recommends the passage of the following resolutions:

Resolved: That the University Cemetery be enlarged by extending the side walls 100 feet to the north, and the removal of the north wall to take in the proposed addition, and also south, flush with the Confederate Cemetery, if it is deemed advisable after conference between the Cemetery Association Committee, and the Faculty Committee on Cemetery.

Resolved: That the desired survey, plat and blue- prints be made.

Resolved: That the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, be requested to superintend this work, and the sum of $373.40, or so much thereof as may be necessary be appropriated for this purpose.

Mr. Michie offered the following, which was adopted.

Resolved: The regulations suggested by the University Cemetery Association, for the care of the cemetery and the allotment of graves and sections, be and the same are hereby approved, and ordered to be spread on the minutes of the Rector and Visitors.

To the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia:

The University Cemetery Association respectfully petitions the Visitors to enlarge the bounds of the present cemetery on the North side, so as to take in sufficient ground to accommodate the needs of the University community; and to repair the walk leading to the cemetery.

For the bette regulation of this proposed addition to the cemetery, we would respectfully make the following suggestions:

1\. That the north wall be moved by the University authorities on hundred feet to the north, and the space be enclosed with a wall on the east and west sides, (with gate in north wall), with authority to cut out such trees as may be deemed necessary; also that water be brought conveniently near the addition.

2\. That an accurate survey and plat be made of the proposed addition, with walks in appropriate directions, and so arranged that burial lots may be laid off in sizes to suit applicants who may be permitted under the next succeeding paragraph to acquire such lots.

3\. That the following classes of persons may obtain licenses for burial lots in the proposed addition:

(a) Professors and officials of the University

(b) Resident children of such professors or officials

4\. That five by ten (5 x 10) square feet shall be allotted to each grave.

5\. That no license for a burial lot be granted, save upon the cash payments of the full price; lots containing one gr $12.00

6\. That the scale of prices be as follows:

lots containing two gr $22.00

lots containing three $30.00

7\. That all money obtained from the granting os such licenses shall be turned over to the Treasurer of the Cemetery Endowment Fund.

for each additional gr $

8\. That the licenses for all such lots contain the following stipulations:

(a) That if the licenses remove from the neighborhood and fail during twenty years to notify the Bursar of the University, that the use of his lot is still desired, the right of so much of the lot as has remained unused, shall be deemed to have been abandoned;

(b) That no license shall be of any force or effect unless and until the lot to which it pertains shall have been marked off by stone markers at the corners, and not otherwise;

9\. That suitable lots be set aside for the graves of such individual students and alumni, as may be buried here.

10\. That as licenses are granted for burial lots, it shall be the duty of the official or committee authorized to grant them, to delineate carefully and to number upon the plat the lot thus assigned, and the lot shall be described in the license by the same number it bears upon the plat; and the said plat shall be kept in the Bursars' office, or in some other convenient place where it may be open to the inspection of the members of the faculty or others interested.

11\. The rules governing the assignments of lots already made are to continue in force, and lots may be assigned in the old cemetery as heretofore to the families of any professors who have in the past made considerable payment upon the keeping of the cemetery, and who have not as yet made any burial there.

In marking off these lots (iron or wood) fences will not be allowed.

Respectfully submitted, University Cemetery Endowment Association

The matter of placing a tombstone at Dr. B. W. Greens' grave, was referred to the President with power to act.

On recommendation of the President, the following was adopted:

Resolved: That Messrs. Jesse H. Green and J. H. Robertson be and are hereby appointed to fill the place of an Instructor in the Department of Chemistry, for the remainder of the session 1914-'15, beginning January 1st.

The President presented the matter of preparing for the centennial celebration in 1919, and requested that a committee of the Board be appointed to confer with a similar committee of the Faculty. A committee consisting of the Rector, and Messrs. White and Michie was appointed.

Upon the recommendation of the President, the following was adopted; Mr. Hatton voting in the negative,

Scholarships to Divisions of U. D. C.

Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors of the University award a scholarship to each of the twenty two (22) divisions of the "United Daughters of the Confederacy," including the States of Alabama, Arkansas, California, Colorado, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, and covering exemption from tuition in the Academy Department.

The following was adopted:

Resolved: That the Education Building, recently created from funds given largely by the Peabody Education Fund, be named "Peabody Hall" in honor of George Peabody the founder of that fund, and one of the earliest and wisest of American Benefactors.

A Committee from the C. and A. Ry. Company appeared before the meeting and requested that the action of the Board at a former meeting in declining a permit to construct a turn-round on the University's property near the C. and O. Ry. be re-considered, and praying that said permit be granted. After a full hearing and discussion of the matter, the Board declined to reconsider.

A standing committee of the Board on Buildings and Grounds was created; the same to consist of the Rector, and Messrs. Michie and White.

The President stated that an Economic Survey of Albemarle County had been projected, in which the University would take a leading part; that there would be some expenses attached to the undertaking and asked that an appropriation of something like $200 be made to aid in meeting the expenses. The matter was referred to the President, with power to act.

Pursuant with recommendation of Finance Committee, the following was adopted:-

Resolved: That the Bursar is hereby directed to deposit with The Norfolk Bank for Savings & Trusts of Norfolk, Va., all the bonds, stocks, or other securities of every kind, including cash, bequeathed to the University of Virginia by the late Dr. Bennett Wood Green, and which are now held by the said bank as Trustee under the will of said Dr. Green, and a list of and receipt for said securities and cash shall be furnished the Bursar of the University of Virginia.

The bonds and stock shall, as far as may be done, be registered in the name of the Rector and Visitors of the University, and may be transferred only upon the authority of the Bursar and Two members of the Finance Committee.

The Depository shall collect all interest as the same accrues upon any of the securities, and shall make remittance thereof to the Bursar semi-annually, January 1st, and July 1st of each year.

The Depository shall collect any bond or other security as it matures and shall deposit the same to a special investment account to be drawn upon by the Bursar for the purchase of other securities as may be approved by him and two members of the Finance Committee, and such securities when they shall have been paid for, shall be delivered to said depository and be held for the account of the same fund from which the purchase money was derived.

The Depository shall give immediate notice of the collection of any matured bond or other security in order that proper investment of the fund may be had.

A special account shall be kept of each fund, and the investment thereof.

The Compensation of the Depository shall be $50.00 per annum, payable January 1st, in each year.

The request of the National Bank of Charlottesville for a part of the University's deposits was considered and referred to the Finance Committee to report to future meeting of the Board.

Report of Executive Committee with reference to salary of Dean.

Some time after the return of President Alderman, the Bursar, at the suggestion of the President, consulted the Chairman of the Executive Committee, as to what compensation the Dean of the University should receive. Since July, Dr. Page had been receiving the regular salary of a full professor, $3,300.00 and a house; $350.00 as Dean, and $1,500 as acting President during Dr. Alderman's absence,—a total of $5150.00 and a house. After Dr. Alderman's return the Bursar was uncertain of his authority to continue paying Dr. Page as acting president. He asked advice of the President, who referred him to the Chairman of the Executive Committee. The latter corresponded with the other members of the committee, but it was decided to defer action until the meeting of the Board of Visitors. Since November the 1st, the payment of the salary of $1500.00 as acting president has been discontinued.

In view of the invaluable services rendered by Dr. Page to the University during Dr. Alderman's absence, and in consideration of the fact that on account of Dr. Page's multitudinous duties as Dean, which continue throughout the summer, his whole time and energies are so fully engrossed that he is unable to avail himself of opportunities to add to his income, the Executive Committee recommends that Dr. Page's salary, as professor, as dean and acting president in time of the President's absence, be fixed at $4,800.00 per annum, and the use of the Dean's residence, as of November 1st, 1914.

Resolved: That the salary of Dr. Jas. M. Page, as professor of mathematics, dean of the University, and acting president in times of the absence of the President, be fixed at $4,800.00 per annum and the use of the Deans' Residence as of November 1st, 1914.

Dr. A. J. Morrison of Hampden-Sidney, Va., appeared before the Board in interest of a course of lectures prepared on Virginia History, etc., which he wished to deliver at the University. After considering the matter, the following was adopted:

Resolved: That the outline of a proposed series of lectures on Virginia History by Dr. A. J. Morrison, as presented by him to this Board, having been given due consideration, the Board is of the opinion that the proposition of Dr. Morrison is not practicable.

The following was adopted:

Resolved: That the Rector be and he is hereby authorized to sign on behalf of the University, the release deed in the matter of the National Savings and Trust Company, as trustee under the will of Cumberland George Herndon.

The Board being apprised of the death of Hon. John B. Moon, attorney for the University, proceeded to fill the vacancy. Mr. Allan Perkins was elected to fill said vacancy at a salary of $300. per annum.

Upon application of Prof. C. W. Paul, permission was granted him to hold examination in B1 Public Speaking on March 13th, instead of on the regular date as scheduled. This change of date was made necessary on account of conflict with other dates, as arranged.

Professor Charles W. Paul was granted permission to erect a residence on University grounds, under usual terms of leases granted to professors.

On motion, the Board adjourned until annual meeting in June

After consideration of the petition of the University Cemetery Endowment Association, and the estimate of the costs of the proposed addition, by the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, the Executive Committee recommends the passage of the following resolutions:

Resolved: That the University Cemetery be enlarged by extending the side walls 100 feet to the north, and the removal of the north wall to take in the proposed addition, and also south, flush with the Confederate Cemetery, if it is deemed advisable after conference between the Cemetery Association Committee, and the Faculty Committee on Cemetery.

Resolved: That the desired survey, plat and blue- prints be made.

Resolved: That the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, be requested to superintend this work, and the sum of $373.40, or so much thereof as may be necessary be appropriated for this purpose.

Some time after the return of President Alderman, the Bursar, at the suggestion of the President, consulted the Chairman of the Executive Committee, as to what compensation the Dean of the University should receive. Since July, Dr. Page had been receiving the regular salary of a full professor, $3,300.00 and a house; $350.00 as Dean, and $1,500 as acting President during Dr. Alderman's absence,—a total of $5150.00 and a house. After Dr. Alderman's return the Bursar was uncertain of his authority to continue paying Dr. Page as acting president. He asked advice of the President, who referred him to the Chairman of the Executive Committee. The latter corresponded with the other members of the committee, but it was decided to defer action until the meeting of the Board of Visitors. Since November the 1st, the payment of the salary of $1500.00 as acting president has been discontinued.

In view of the invaluable services rendered by Dr. Page to the University during Dr. Alderman's absence, and in consideration of the fact that on account of Dr. Page's multitudinous duties as Dean, which continue throughout the summer, his whole time and energies are so fully engrossed that he is unable to avail himself of opportunities to add to his income, the Executive Committee recommends that Dr. Page's salary, as professor, as dean and acting president in time of the President's absence, be fixed at $4,800.00 per annum, and the use of the Dean's residence, as of November 1st, 1914.

After consideration of the petition of the University Cemetery Endowment Association, and the estimate of the costs of the proposed addition, by the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, the Executive Committee recommends the passage of the following resolutions:

Resolved: That the University Cemetery be enlarged by extending the side walls 100 feet to the north, and the removal of the north wall to take in the proposed addition, and also south, flush with the Confederate Cemetery, if it is deemed advisable after conference between the Cemetery Association Committee, and the Faculty Committee on Cemetery.

Resolved: That the desired survey, plat and blue- prints be made.

Resolved: That the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, be requested to superintend this work, and the sum of $373.40, or so much thereof as may be necessary be appropriated for this purpose.

Some time after the return of President Alderman, the Bursar, at the suggestion of the President, consulted the Chairman of the Executive Committee, as to what compensation the Dean of the University should receive. Since July, Dr. Page had been receiving the regular salary of a full professor, $3,300.00 and a house; $350.00 as Dean, and $1,500 as acting President during Dr. Alderman's absence,—a total of $5150.00 and a house. After Dr. Alderman's return the Bursar was uncertain of his authority to continue paying Dr. Page as acting president. He asked advice of the President, who referred him to the Chairman of the Executive Committee. The latter corresponded with the other members of the committee, but it was decided to defer action until the meeting of the Board of Visitors. Since November the 1st, the payment of the salary of $1500.00 as acting president has been discontinued.

In view of the invaluable services rendered by Dr. Page to the University during Dr. Alderman's absence, and in consideration of the fact that on account of Dr. Page's multitudinous duties as Dean, which continue throughout the summer, his whole time and energies are so fully engrossed that he is unable to avail himself of opportunities to add to his income, the Executive Committee recommends that Dr. Page's salary, as professor, as dean and acting president in time of the President's absence, be fixed at $4,800.00 per annum, and the use of the Dean's residence, as of November 1st, 1914.