 TEI to HTML

A called meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date with the following members present: Armistead C. Gordon, Rector, and Visitors Craddock, Irvine, Michie, Hatton and Norton.

The special item of business for which the meeting was called, that of establishing at the University one or more unites of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps, was taken up. President Alderman stated that the question had been under very careful consideration here for several months by the student body and members of the faculty; that a special committee from the faculty, consisting of Professors Echols, Marshall, Dobie and Eager, had been appointed to study the matter and report to the faculty, and that the said committee, after due study and inquiry, made a unanimous report to the Faculty at a meeting on March 14th, recommending the establishment of said corps, which report was unanimously adopted by the faculty and recommended to the Rector and Visitors for their consideration.

The question was very fully discussed by the members of the Board, President Alderman and the members of the special committee from the faculty who were present at the request of President Alderman. The discussion developed the fact that there were certain legal points which were not clear to the members and that more time should be given for the study of the Act before a vote be had; whereupon, the Rector offered the following, which was adopted:

RESOLVED, That the question of the adoption of the provisions of the Federal Act entitled "An Act for making further and more effective provision for the national defense", be referred to a committee of three Visitors together with the President and Prof. Echols, to report to a meeting of the Board to be held on the 23rd of March, 1917.

The Rector appointed Messrs. Hatton, Irvine and Michie on said committee.

The meeting then adjourned to March 23, 1917.