 TEI to HTML

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON ESTABLISHMENT OF R. O. T. C.. UNITS AT UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACOPY OF PROGRAM SUGGESTED FOR AFFILIATION BETWEEN THE TUBERCULOSIS SANATORIUM OF THE STATE BOARD OF HEALTH AND THE MEDICAL SCHOOL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA.UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIAMarch 1, 1919.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Total number of students registered Sept. 1918-March 1, 1919

1203

March 1, 1919, total enrollment by Departments, counting from Jan. 1, 1919:

The College

519

The Graduate Department

21

The Law Department

99

The Medical Department

111

The Engineering Department

168

918

Duplicates

28

Number now present

890

A called meeting of the Pector and Visitors was held on this date at 8 o'clock in the evening. There were present the Rector, R. Tate Irvine, and Visitors Goodrich Hatton, C. Harding Walker, John Stewart Bryan, George R. B. Michie, and Alexander F. Robertson. The minutes of the previous meeting, copies of which had been mailed to the several Visitors, were approved.

The President announced to the Board the death of Professor William H. Heck on January 4, 1919, and on motion motion it was

RESOLVED: That the President prepare suitable resolutions touching the death of Professor Heck to be spread upon the minutes of this meeting.

The President asked for instructions as to continuing the salary of Professor Heck to his widow as has been customary in similar cases, and on motion it was

RESOLVED: That the salary heretofore paid to Professor Heck be paid to his widow until September 15, 1919, and that she be given the privilege of retaining the use of Pavilion 2, East Lawn until that date under the arrangement as to rent now existing

The President announced the following gifts and stated that he had made due acknowledgments of the same on behalf of the Board:

Ferrell D. Minor, $10,000 Liberty Bonds for Law Library Endowment.

Bequest of Elizabeth B. White, $4750.

Samuel Sachs, $1000 for Art Study.

Peabody Bust, J. P. Morgan, Jr., $600.

Cobb Portrait.

Andrew Courtney Campbell Tablet.

The President brought to the attention of the Board some new developments in connection with the bequest of $200,000 to the University of Virginia by Col. Oliver H. Payne, stating that since the last meeting a paper containing a schedule of the bequests in Col. Payne's will had been found in his desk and the item of $200,000 for the University of Virginia had been changed in pencil to read $250,000, and across this was marked the word "paid"; that this paper had been examined by him in company with Mr. W. W. Fuller, who was familiar with the handwriting of Col. Payne, and that he, Mr. Fuller, was of the opinion that the writing was that of Col. Payne. Mr. Hatton then asked President Alderman what action the executors wished the Board to take in the matter, and he replied that it was their wish for the Board to renounce the bequest. After some discussion the matter was disposed of in the following resolution offered by Mr. Hatton:

RESOLVED: That the opinion in writing of Dean Lile in relation to the bequest of Col. Oliver H. Payne to the University be referred to Dean Lile with the request that he reconsider the same in the light of the facts which have developed since that opinion was written, and which have been reported by the President, and with the request that Dean Lile after such reconsideration, give a further opinion.

Professor J. L. Newcomb, Chairman of the Special Committee on Establishment of R. O. T. C. Units at the University of Virginia, personally presented the following report of his committee:

At a meeting of the General Faculty held February 8, 1919, the following resolution was unanimously adopted: (Resolved, That the General Faculty recommends to the Rector and Board of Visitors that one or more units of the R. O. T. C. be established at the University of Virginia.)

The President then appointed the undersigned committee to study the tentative R.O.T.C. programs for the various branches of the service and make recommendations in regard to the most effective R.O.T.C. service that the University of Virginia might be able to render.

The War Department Committee on Education submitted programs for the following units:

Infantry

Cavalry

Field Artillery

Coast (heavy) Artillery

Engineering Corps

Signal Corps

The members of the committee unanimously join in recommending the establishment of a Coast (heavy) Artillery unit for these reasons:

1\. Such a unit would in no manner interfere with the normal course of student life and study at the University of Virginia because neither uniforms nor drill would be required during the regular session, all practical military work being done in summer camps. Moreover, the equipment which the Government furnishes for a Coast (heavy) Artillery unit can be readily housed and cared for by the University.

2\. The instruction of the volunteer student members of a Coast (heavy) Artillery unit is of genuine scientific character, maintained and carried on in accordance with the University's regular standard of learning and scholarship. This course would seem to be a peculiarly appropriate educational as well as patriotic duty for the University to undertake.

The establishment of an Infantry, Cavalry, or Field Artillery unit would not possess the advantages mentioned above.

The work of the Engineering Corps and Signal Corps unit would be of the same scientific character as the training for Coast (heavy) Artillery, but would seem (from the tentative programs of study) to involve serious readjustment of courses in the Department of Engineering, and the enlargement of the Engineering Faculty. Moreover, in the case of an Engineering Corps unit such military features as uniforms, drill and marching to class would be required. It should be understood, however, that these conditions laid down in the programs submitted are only tentative and may well be changed after conference between the University authorities and proper representatives of the War Department.

In view of these facts the committee again unanimously recommends that the President of the University be authorized to invite proper representatives of the Engineering and Signal Corps to confer with the Engineering Faculty in regard to the removal of objectional requirements, and also with regard to the feasibility of the Government's furnishing the number of additional instructors needed. Provided this conference should safeguard and prove satisfactory to the University's best interests, the Committee recommends the the President be given discretionary power for the establishment of either an Engineering Corps unit, or Signal Corps unit, or both.

The question of establishing at the University certain units of the R. O. T. C. was disposed of in the following resolution offered by Mr. Bryan and unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED: That the Board of Visitors having heard the report of the faculty of the University of Virginia on the establishment of a R. O. T. C., hereby accepts and approves that report, and the Board of Visitors specifically reserves the right to discontinue the R. O. T. C. whenever and for whatever reason it may desire.

The President stated that in contemplation of the establishment in the vicinity of Charlottesville of a tuberculosis sanatorium by the State Board of Health, he had been approached by a committee of the State Board asking for effective cooperation between the University Medical School and hospital staff and the proposed sanatorium, to which he replied as follows:

If the State Board of Health will establish and maintain a Tuberculosis Sanatorium sufficiently close to the Medical School of the University of Virginia for effective cooperation, and if the State Board of Health will permit the Medical Director of the Sanatorium to teach the problems of tuberculosis to the students and nurses of the medical department of the University, and for this purpose use such patients in the sanatorium as may seem suitable to the Medical Director; the Medical School of the University will on its part affiliate with the sanatorium, and promote the work of the sanatorium in so far as such promotion and affiliation is compatible with the other objects and duties of the Medical School and the University Hospital.

It is the judgment of the President that the Visitors of the University will be glad to make the Medical Director, and if necessary his assistant, members of the Faculty of the Medical School, provided these officers show the proper qualifications for such positions; the Hospital authorities will undertake to take such measures as are customary for hospital authorities in order to provide the Tuberculosis Sanatorium with internes or other medical officers; the fourth year students in suitable groups will be available for ward work in the Tuberculosis Sanatorium, as they are in the University Hospital, and similarly the third year students will be available as in the University Hospital; the Training School for Nurses will provide in rotation groups of nurses for the Tuberculosis Sanatorium who shall receive special instruction in the Sanatorium and round out their complete training in the University Hospital; the wards of the University Hospital and the staff of the Hospital will be available for the treatment of such complicating diseases as the patients in the Sanatorium may present and on the same basis as other Virginia state patients presenting at this hospital; the X-ray out-fit at the Hospital will be placed at the disposal of the medical authorities of the Sanatorium.

The above propositions are to be understood as applying in so far as compliance with them will not interfere with the proper development and conduct of the Medical School and Nurses Training School, and will not interfere with the proper development and conduct of the University Hospital. Moreover, expenses attached to the carrying out of this program, (for example, the expenses incidental to the use of the X-ray apparatus), must either be borne by the Sanatorium, or adequate arrangements must be made outside of this outlined program between the State Board of Health authorities and those of the University of Virginia.

The Sanatorium will undertake to board and lodge doctors, students and nurses while they are acting as workers in the sanatorium.

In addition to the above it is also the judgment of the President that the Rector and Visitors of the University will be willing to contribute annually towards the support of the Medical Director, or his assistant, provided the State Board of Health shall consider it wise to accept such contribution. The amount of this contribution, which shall be between one thousand dollars and three thousand dollars a year, remains to be determined by conference between the Commissioner of Health and the President of the University of Virginia.

The President of the University is indeed anxious that this affiliation shall be established, and any further propositions not contemplated in the above program will be considered in the most cooperative spirit compatible with the other interests of the University of Virginia.

The foregoing matter was disposed of in the following resolution offered by Mr. Bryan, and unanimously adopted: RESOLVED: That the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia having heard with approval of the action of the State Board of Health in reference to the erection of a tuberculsis hospital near the city of Charlottesville, express their desire to cooperate with that undertaking along the lines of the communication of Dr. Alderman to the State Board of Health December 27, 1918.

The President stated that it was desired to erect a tablet in the Chemical Laboratory commemorative of the generosity of Mr. John B. Cobb in donating to the University the sum of $60,000 toward the erection and equipping of the laboratory, and the President was authorized to have prepared and erected a suitable tablet at such cost as he deemed proper.

The President stated that in response to an invitation in June 1918 from the Coast Artillery School at Fort Monroe, Va. to send a representative of its faculty to attend the eight weeks Basic Course for artillery officers, beginning July 6, 1918, with a view of establishing in the University a course preparatory to heavy artillery training camps, Professor John J. Luck was requested to attend the school as a representative of the University of Virginia faculty, and that he had received a letter from the Commandant stating that the Coast Artillery School had gained a vast amount of benefit by the attendance of our representative, and that he had made a most excellent impression upon all concerned. The President further stated that in view of the fact that Mr. Luck had been put to some expenses in attending the school, the University should reimburse him for his necessary expenses, and it was so ordered.

Upon recommendation of the President the Garrett Scholarship in the Graduate School for the session 1918-19 was awarded to Mr. Armistead C. Gordon, Jr.

In connection with the employers' liability insurance for employees of the University of Virginia as is required to be carried by all employers, including State Institutions, as provided in the Virginia Workmen's Compensation Act of 1918, the following was adopted:

RESOLVED: That compliance may be had with the requirements of the Virginia Workmen's Compensation Act as to the protection of our employees by insuring them against injury while in the service of the University of Virginia, the President is hereby authorized to apply to the Industrial Commission of Virginia for the privilege of paying direct to any of its injured employees the compensation provided for in said Act when due, in the amount and manner and as may be directed by said commission; and that it be relieved of insuring such payments, and the Bursar is directed to furnish to the said commission the annual payrolls of the University and to pay into the State Treasury the 4% premium tax as required by Section 75 (j) of the Act.

The Rector stated that there had been brought to his attention by the Bursar of the University for consideration and recommendation to the Board a certain claim made against the administrators of the estate of Arthur W. Austin, deceased, by the administrator of the estate of Miss Florence Austin, deceased, to recover certain deficiency appropriation made to her under the will of Mr. Austin, but which had not been called for during the past five years, amounting to something like $900. After some discussion of the matter it was referred to the Rector with power to act.

A petition from Professors Webb, Maphis and Forrest asking that provision for automatic increases in professors' salaries be re-established was referred to the President to consider in connection with the budget for the next fiscal year.

Pavilion #2, East Lawn was assigned to Professor Ivey F. Lewis upon its being vacated by Mrs. Heck at an annual rental of $300.00.

Professor J. L. Newcomb asked for instructions in making settlement between Section B. of the S. A. T. C. and the War Department, and the matter was disposed of in the following offered by Mr. Hatton, and adopted:

RESOLVED: That a settlement with the United States War Department of the accounts of the Students' Army Training Corps, Section B, be made in accordance with the contract, the buildings to be retained by the University.

The President brought to the attention of the Board a request through the Director of the Summer School from the Virginia Division of the Woman's Land Army of America for permission to use the barracks of Section B in which to conduct a training school to train group leaders to meet the emergency need for farm labor throughout the South. On motion of Mr. Bryan the following was adopted (Mr. Hatton voting "No"):

RESOLVED: That the use of the buildings heretofore used by the S. A. T. C. be granted, under the direction and approval of the President, to the Woman's Land Army of America for the period of the summer of 1919.

Certain needed repairs at the President's house costing about $150 were authorized.

The President announced the following student registration for the present session:

Pursuant to the request of the Board, as set forth in the minutes of this meeting, the President prepared the following resolutions touching the death of Professor Heck:

In recording the death of Professor William Harry Heck on January fourth, 1919, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia desire to place on record also their profound feeling of regret for the loss to the University and to the field of scholarship; of sorrow that a gentleman of the finer type will walk no more among the scenes that knew him so well; and of profound sympathy for the members of his family, who have been so long associated with the University of Virginia and who are so well loved in the University community.

Professor Heck was a devoted and enthusiastic student of his subject. At the time of his death he was at the heightof his productive power, having but just finished theeignth and last of his contributions to our knowledge of home study. The series constitutes a veritable magnum opus which reflects the greatest credit on American scholarship.

As a teacher Professor Heck exerted his greatest influence on the older and more thoughtful members of his classes. His students testify that his carefully prepared and stimulating lectures opened for them vistas into the world of scholarship beyond the technical field of education. He put into his class work a great deal of the force of his own personality and the results of his own creative thinking. It is said by competant critics that nowhere else in the United States was a course given that was the equivalent of his Education B-1.

The University mourns the loss of a gentleman, a scholar, and a teacher of the Highest type.

On notion the meeting then adjourned.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON ESTABLISHMENT OF R. O. T. C.. UNITS AT UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At a meeting of the General Faculty held February 8, 1919, the following resolution was unanimously adopted: (Resolved, That the General Faculty recommends to the Rector and Board of Visitors that one or more units of the R. O. T. C. be established at the University of Virginia.)

The President then appointed the undersigned committee to study the tentative R.O.T.C. programs for the various branches of the service and make recommendations in regard to the most effective R.O.T.C. service that the University of Virginia might be able to render.

The War Department Committee on Education submitted programs for the following units:

Infantry

Cavalry

Field Artillery

Coast (heavy) Artillery

Engineering Corps

Signal Corps

The members of the committee unanimously join in recommending the establishment of a Coast (heavy) Artillery unit for these reasons:

1\. Such a unit would in no manner interfere with the normal course of student life and study at the University of Virginia because neither uniforms nor drill would be required during the regular session, all practical military work being done in summer camps. Moreover, the equipment which the Government furnishes for a Coast (heavy) Artillery unit can be readily housed and cared for by the University.

2\. The instruction of the volunteer student members of a Coast (heavy) Artillery unit is of genuine scientific character, maintained and carried on in accordance with the University's regular standard of learning and scholarship. This course would seem to be a peculiarly appropriate educational as well as patriotic duty for the University to undertake.

The establishment of an Infantry, Cavalry, or Field Artillery unit would not possess the advantages mentioned above.

The work of the Engineering Corps and Signal Corps unit would be of the same scientific character as the training for Coast (heavy) Artillery, but would seem (from the tentative programs of study) to involve serious readjustment of courses in the Department of Engineering, and the enlargement of the Engineering Faculty. Moreover, in the case of an Engineering Corps unit such military features as uniforms, drill and marching to class would be required. It should be understood, however, that these conditions laid down in the programs submitted are only tentative and may well be changed after conference between the University authorities and proper representatives of the War Department.

In view of these facts the committee again unanimously recommends that the President of the University be authorized to invite proper representatives of the Engineering and Signal Corps to confer with the Engineering Faculty in regard to the removal of objectional requirements, and also with regard to the feasibility of the Government's furnishing the number of additional instructors needed. Provided this conference should safeguard and prove satisfactory to the University's best interests, the Committee recommends the the President be given discretionary power for the establishment of either an Engineering Corps unit, or Signal Corps unit, or both.

COPY OF PROGRAM SUGGESTED FOR AFFILIATION BETWEEN THE TUBERCULOSIS SANATORIUM OF THE STATE BOARD OF HEALTH AND THE MEDICAL SCHOOL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the State Board of Health will establish and maintain a Tuberculosis Sanatorium sufficiently close to the Medical School of the University of Virginia for effective cooperation, and if the State Board of Health will permit the Medical Director of the Sanatorium to teach the problems of tuberculosis to the students and nurses of the medical department of the University, and for this purpose use such patients in the sanatorium as may seem suitable to the Medical Director; the Medical School of the University will on its part affiliate with the sanatorium, and promote the work of the sanatorium in so far as such promotion and affiliation is compatible with the other objects and duties of the Medical School and the University Hospital.

It is the judgment of the President that the Visitors of the University will be glad to make the Medical Director, and if necessary his assistant, members of the Faculty of the Medical School, provided these officers show the proper qualifications for such positions; the Hospital authorities will undertake to take such measures as are customary for hospital authorities in order to provide the Tuberculosis Sanatorium with internes or other medical officers; the fourth year students in suitable groups will be available for ward work in the Tuberculosis Sanatorium, as they are in the University Hospital, and similarly the third year students will be available as in the University Hospital; the Training School for Nurses will provide in rotation groups of nurses for the Tuberculosis Sanatorium who shall receive special instruction in the Sanatorium and round out their complete training in the University Hospital; the wards of the University Hospital and the staff of the Hospital will be available for the treatment of such complicating diseases as the patients in the Sanatorium may present and on the same basis as other Virginia state patients presenting at this hospital; the X-ray out-fit at the Hospital will be placed at the disposal of the medical authorities of the Sanatorium.

The above propositions are to be understood as applying in so far as compliance with them will not interfere with the proper development and conduct of the Medical School and Nurses Training School, and will not interfere with the proper development and conduct of the University Hospital. Moreover, expenses attached to the carrying out of this program, (for example, the expenses incidental to the use of the X-ray apparatus), must either be borne by the Sanatorium, or adequate arrangements must be made outside of this outlined program between the State Board of Health authorities and those of the University of Virginia.

The Sanatorium will undertake to board and lodge doctors, students and nurses while they are acting as workers in the sanatorium.

In addition to the above it is also the judgment of the President that the Rector and Visitors of the University will be willing to contribute annually towards the support of the Medical Director, or his assistant, provided the State Board of Health shall consider it wise to accept such contribution. The amount of this contribution, which shall be between one thousand dollars and three thousand dollars a year, remains to be determined by conference between the Commissioner of Health and the President of the University of Virginia.

The President of the University is indeed anxious that this affiliation shall be established, and any further propositions not contemplated in the above program will be considered in the most cooperative spirit compatible with the other interests of the University of Virginia.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON ESTABLISHMENT OF R. O. T. C.. UNITS AT UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At a meeting of the General Faculty held February 8, 1919, the following resolution was unanimously adopted: (Resolved, That the General Faculty recommends to the Rector and Board of Visitors that one or more units of the R. O. T. C. be established at the University of Virginia.)

The President then appointed the undersigned committee to study the tentative R.O.T.C. programs for the various branches of the service and make recommendations in regard to the most effective R.O.T.C. service that the University of Virginia might be able to render.

The War Department Committee on Education submitted programs for the following units:

Infantry

Cavalry

Field Artillery

Coast (heavy) Artillery

Engineering Corps

Signal Corps

The members of the committee unanimously join in recommending the establishment of a Coast (heavy) Artillery unit for these reasons:

1\. Such a unit would in no manner interfere with the normal course of student life and study at the University of Virginia because neither uniforms nor drill would be required during the regular session, all practical military work being done in summer camps. Moreover, the equipment which the Government furnishes for a Coast (heavy) Artillery unit can be readily housed and cared for by the University.

2\. The instruction of the volunteer student members of a Coast (heavy) Artillery unit is of genuine scientific character, maintained and carried on in accordance with the University's regular standard of learning and scholarship. This course would seem to be a peculiarly appropriate educational as well as patriotic duty for the University to undertake.

The establishment of an Infantry, Cavalry, or Field Artillery unit would not possess the advantages mentioned above.

The work of the Engineering Corps and Signal Corps unit would be of the same scientific character as the training for Coast (heavy) Artillery, but would seem (from the tentative programs of study) to involve serious readjustment of courses in the Department of Engineering, and the enlargement of the Engineering Faculty. Moreover, in the case of an Engineering Corps unit such military features as uniforms, drill and marching to class would be required. It should be understood, however, that these conditions laid down in the programs submitted are only tentative and may well be changed after conference between the University authorities and proper representatives of the War Department.

In view of these facts the committee again unanimously recommends that the President of the University be authorized to invite proper representatives of the Engineering and Signal Corps to confer with the Engineering Faculty in regard to the removal of objectional requirements, and also with regard to the feasibility of the Government's furnishing the number of additional instructors needed. Provided this conference should safeguard and prove satisfactory to the University's best interests, the Committee recommends the the President be given discretionary power for the establishment of either an Engineering Corps unit, or Signal Corps unit, or both.

COPY OF PROGRAM SUGGESTED FOR AFFILIATION BETWEEN THE TUBERCULOSIS SANATORIUM OF THE STATE BOARD OF HEALTH AND THE MEDICAL SCHOOL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the State Board of Health will establish and maintain a Tuberculosis Sanatorium sufficiently close to the Medical School of the University of Virginia for effective cooperation, and if the State Board of Health will permit the Medical Director of the Sanatorium to teach the problems of tuberculosis to the students and nurses of the medical department of the University, and for this purpose use such patients in the sanatorium as may seem suitable to the Medical Director; the Medical School of the University will on its part affiliate with the sanatorium, and promote the work of the sanatorium in so far as such promotion and affiliation is compatible with the other objects and duties of the Medical School and the University Hospital.

It is the judgment of the President that the Visitors of the University will be glad to make the Medical Director, and if necessary his assistant, members of the Faculty of the Medical School, provided these officers show the proper qualifications for such positions; the Hospital authorities will undertake to take such measures as are customary for hospital authorities in order to provide the Tuberculosis Sanatorium with internes or other medical officers; the fourth year students in suitable groups will be available for ward work in the Tuberculosis Sanatorium, as they are in the University Hospital, and similarly the third year students will be available as in the University Hospital; the Training School for Nurses will provide in rotation groups of nurses for the Tuberculosis Sanatorium who shall receive special instruction in the Sanatorium and round out their complete training in the University Hospital; the wards of the University Hospital and the staff of the Hospital will be available for the treatment of such complicating diseases as the patients in the Sanatorium may present and on the same basis as other Virginia state patients presenting at this hospital; the X-ray out-fit at the Hospital will be placed at the disposal of the medical authorities of the Sanatorium.

The above propositions are to be understood as applying in so far as compliance with them will not interfere with the proper development and conduct of the Medical School and Nurses Training School, and will not interfere with the proper development and conduct of the University Hospital. Moreover, expenses attached to the carrying out of this program, (for example, the expenses incidental to the use of the X-ray apparatus), must either be borne by the Sanatorium, or adequate arrangements must be made outside of this outlined program between the State Board of Health authorities and those of the University of Virginia.

The Sanatorium will undertake to board and lodge doctors, students and nurses while they are acting as workers in the sanatorium.

In addition to the above it is also the judgment of the President that the Rector and Visitors of the University will be willing to contribute annually towards the support of the Medical Director, or his assistant, provided the State Board of Health shall consider it wise to accept such contribution. The amount of this contribution, which shall be between one thousand dollars and three thousand dollars a year, remains to be determined by conference between the Commissioner of Health and the President of the University of Virginia.

The President of the University is indeed anxious that this affiliation shall be established, and any further propositions not contemplated in the above program will be considered in the most cooperative spirit compatible with the other interests of the University of Virginia.