 TEI to HTML

INSTRUCTORS, ASSISTANTS AND STUDENT ASSISTANTS COLLEGE DEPARTMENTSCHOLARSHIP APPOINTMENTS CONFIRMEDIsaac Cary ScholarshipWilliam C. Folkes ScholarshipsSamuel Miller ScholarshipPhelps-Stokes FellowshipSkinner ScholarshipsRives FellowshipINCREASES IN SALARIESREPORT OF ARMISTEAD M. DOBIE, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CENTENNIAL ENDOWMENT FUND.1 - ORGANIZATIONa - Original Organizationb - Preliminary Summer Workc - Richmond Headquartersd- National & Executive Committeese - Regional and Local Chairmenf.- Depositary and Treasurer2 - PROGRESS OF THE FUNDa - Thanksgiving Meeting at the Universityb - Date of Beginning Solicitation of Subscriptions.c - Christmas Alumni Meetingsd - Slow Starte - Travelingf - Student Subscriptionsg - Executive Director in New York City.h - Literaturei - Publicityj - Moving Picture and Postersk - Money Raisedl - Cash and Securities in BanksRichmond3 - PLANS FOR THE FUTUREa - Executive Direction of Fundb - Collection of Subscriptions4 - EXPENSESa - Salariesb- Classification of Richmond Expensesc - Expenses Paid by the Bursard - General ObservationsCONCLUSIONa - Cause of Comparative Failureb - Executive Associatesc - Joy of ServiceSTATEMENT OF COST OF CENTENNIAL CELEBRATIONCOLLEGE AND GRADUATE, AND EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS:"RESOLUTION CONCERNING THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACOPY OF WILL OF MISS. ESTE COFFINBERRY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We estimate this work will cost the additional sum of SEVEN THOUSAND AND FIFTY-THREE DOLLARS

$7053.

including full allowance for the ommissions mentioned.

This manner of performing and charging for this work to be in accordance with our proposal dated September 29, 1921 and similar in all respects to the work now being done and covered in specification except that the limit cost will be increased to SIXTY-SEVEN THOUSAND AND FIFTY-THREE DOLLARS

$67053.

Astronomy:

J. D. Koep, Vanderbilt Fellow

$ 480.00

L. R. Rippy, Vanderbilt Fellow

480.00

Biblical History and Literature:

H. L. Hughes, Assistant

250.00

Biology:

P. N. Jones

250.00

J. C. White

250.00

J. M. Kater

250.00

Chemistry:

C. W. Griffin, Teaching Fellow

500.00

P. N. Rhodes, Student Assistant

150.00

R. L. Fleming, Student Assistant

150.00

J. E. Lyles, Student Assistant

150.00

Economics:

W. F. Cox, Jr., Instructor, Commercial Law

750.00

F. W. Davies, Instructor, Commercial Law

250.00

R. T. D. Heaton, Instructor, Commercial Geography

200.00

Mathematics:

Richard M. Bryd, Assistant

350.00

Hugh Warren, Assistant

300.00

B. B. Owen, Assistant

250.00

P. C. Kuhn, Assistant

250.00

Music:

Alfred J. Swan, Assistant Professor

1,200.00

Richard Lorleberg, Instructor

541.00

Philosophy:

E. Wiltshire, Assistant

250.00

T. L. Preston Assistant

250.00

I. J. Quesenberry, Assistant

250.00

W. W. Koontz, Assistant

250.00

Geology:

A. S. Furcron, Assistant

200.00

A. W. Kisling, Jr. Assistant

200.00

A. A. Pegau, Assistant

200.00

Physics:

McDonald Dick, Assistant

500.00

C. R. Larkin, Assistant

500.00

R. B. Torbett, Assistant

500.00

W. T. Straley, Assistant

500.00

Romanic Languages:

P. N. Rhodes, Spanish Instructor

500.00

C. E. Knight, Spanish Instructor

300.00

O. A. Kirkman, Spanish Instructor

300.00

H. D. Scott, Assistant Instructor

200.00

J. L. Scott, Instructor and Board of Visitors Fellow

200.00

F. N. Ogden, Assistant Instructor

200.00

R. L. Stallings, Instructor and Board of Visitors Fellow

200.00

J. H. Green, French Instructor

200.00

Hugh Warren, French Instructor

200.00

E. H. Tompkins, French Instructor

200.00

S. F. Will, French Instructor

200.00

L. M. Wickham, French Instructor

200.00

LAW DEPARTMENT

W. F. Cox, Jrs. Graduate Assistant

1,000.00

S. B. Witt, Jr. Assistant

285.00

R. C. Smith, Assistant

285.00

J. K. Brown, Assistant

285.00

E. F. Melson, Assistant

285.00

B. D. Ayres, Assistant

285.00

DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE

Anatomy:

E. P. Cardwell, Instructor

750.00

L. C. Brand Instructor $1.00 per hour

Clinical:

W. J. Norfleet, Jr., Student Assistant

200.00

R. M. Page, Student Assistant

200.00

Histology & Embryology:

Frank Helvestein, Assistant

100.00

Pharmacology & Materia Medica:

A. A. Pearre, Instructor, $100 per term.

ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT

K. S, Wingfield, Instructor Electric Engineering

1,000.00

P. C. Kuhn, Assistant Exp. Engineering $1.00 per hour

H. C. Forrest, Assistant

300.00

M. A. Cohen, Sophomore Drawing

200.00

F. A. Hoeke, Sophomore Drawing

200.00

N. J. Painter, Freshman Drawing

300.00

P. L. Weir, Freshman Drawing

200.00

H. L. White, Freshman Drawing $50.00 per term

J. B. Christian, Freshman Drawing $50.00 per term

N. W. Brown, Shop Work

$ 500.00

J. W. Calcott, Shop Work

300.00

W. C. Harrison, Shop Work

150.00

W. Minor Smith, Problem Work, Fall Term $50.00

Winter Term 100.00

Spring Term 100.00

E. A. Smith, Hour man. $1.00 per hour

G. P. Gamble, Hour man. $1.00 per hour

H. L. White, Hour man. $1.00 per hour

L. C. Harman, Hour man. $1.00 per hour

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

F. V. Watkins, Assistant

125.00

B. B. Owen, Assistant

125.00

F. W. Davies, Assistant

250.00

Fendall L. Gregory

(Reappointment)

Mike Jones, Jr.

(Reappointment)

Preston Nowlin

(New)

W. M. Bass

(New)

$200,000.

par value, United States of America Victory Liberty Loan 4 3/4% Gold Notes, due May 20, 1923,

April 12th

$ 694,804.54

May 9th

808,208,90

May 30th

1,074,990.82

On July 9, 1921, actual subscriptions amounted to

$1,272.725.25

Subscriptions reported but not sent in

31,605.00

Total

1,304.330.25

Carnegie Foundation

$ 100,000

General Education Board

100,000

2203 Alumni Subscriptions

525,730.84

798 Non-alumni Subscriptions

402,614.14

1489 Student Subscriptions

144,380.27

$ 1,272,725.25

Average Alumnus subscription

$238.64

Average Non-Alumnus subscription

504.53

Average Student subscription

96.96

1.

National State and City Bank (Cash Balance)

$ 16,630.50

2.

Virginia Trust Co.

Cash balance

$80,349.09

Securities

41,450.00

$ 121,799.09

$121,799.09

Charlottesville

1.

Peoples National Bank

Charlottesville Subscriptions

Cash

$ 11,602.28

Liberty Bonds

3,485.00

Student Subscriptions

Cash

3,597.00

Liberty Bonds

800.00

19,484.28

19,484.28

2.

National Bank of Charlottesville

2,501.00

3.

Farmers and Merchants Bank

715.00

4.

Commerce National Bank

1,590.00

TOTAL

$ 162,719.87

1\. Extra Salaries (chiefly for Stenographers)

$ 314.66

2\. Printing, Stationery and Sundries

4,806.38

3\. Publicity (including Moving Picture)

5,673.31

4\. Telegraph, Telephone, Postage, Express, Freight

701.52

5\. Traveling Expenses (chiefly Dobie & McKeand)

2,667.82

6\. Expenses incurred by local and regional chairmen

1,168.56

7\. Rent of typewriters and typewriter supplies

41.00

$ 15,373.25

1\. Salaries

$17,000.00

2\. Expenses incurred by Trimmer as Publicity Director

11,008.38

3\. Traveling Expenses of Faculty Speakers

175.00

4\. Expenses of Student Campaign

175.00

5\. Expenses of Thanksgiving meeting

150.00

$ 28,508.38

1.

GENERAL OFFICE EXPENSE

$ 1,635.66

2.

CENTENNIAL DINNER

2,888.51

3.

BARBECUE

1,481.25

4.

ALUMNI DEPARTMENTAL MEETINGS

808.13

5.

PROGRAMMES, INVITATIONS, MEDALS AND BADGES

2,000.22

6.

BAND

950.60

7.

ORGAN RECITAL

485.52

8.

PAGEANT

7,316.73

9.

FIRE WORKS AND PARADE

610.83

10.

PILGRIMAGE TO MONTICELLO

1,028.25

11.

PRESIDENTIAL RECEPTION

537.70

12.

WAR MEMORIAL EXERCISES

208.15

13.

EXTRA EXPENSE

2,701.38

Total

$ 22,652.93

14.

PUBLICATION (MONEY TO BE SPENT LATER)

4,000.00

GRAND TOTAL

$ 26,652.93

University fee:

Virginians

$10.00

Non-Virginians

40.00

Tuition:

Non-Virginians

160.00

LAW DEPARTMENT:

University fee

40.00

Tuition

160.00

MEDICAL DEPARTMENT:

University fee

40.00

Tuition:

1st and 2nd years

160.00

3rd and 4th years

135.00

ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT:

University fee:

Virginians

20.00

Non-Virginians

40.00

Tuition; average for four years;

Virginians

120.00

Non-Virginians

160.00

A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at which were present the Rector, John Stewart Bryan, H. D. Dillard, W. R, Duke, E. L. Greever, Walter T. Oliver, Alexander F. Robertson, Fred W. Scott, C. Harding Walker and President Alderman.

Minutes of the previous meeting, which had been copied and sent to each member, were approved.

The President announced the attendance of 1673 students for the session to date. He also announced the following gifts and was requested to prepare a proper resolution concerning same.

Letter from Thomas Jefferson to Dr. Thomas Cooper, then President of the University of South Carolina, from Mrs. J. T. Guenette, of Chandler, Okla., whose first husband, James Jackson Hanna, was grandson of Dr. Cooper to whom letter is addressed.

Framed picture, showing the Harbors of Norfolk, Portsmouth and Newport News, in 1950, from Captain W. R. Boutwell, of the Virginia-Pilot Association of Norfolk, Va.

Portrait (in charcoal) of Dr. Basil L. Gildersleeve, from Mr. Frederic S. Wight, of Chatha, Mass., a student at the University of Virginia.

Textbooks used by Lieut. Francis Worth Payne, of Charleston, West Virginia, while a student of the Law School, from which he graduated in June 1916. Lieut. Payne was killed in action in France, July 20, 1918

Pensylvania Statutes Complete to 1920...1 vol., from Mr. William Curtis Bok, Merion Station, Pa., to the Law Library.

Dr. J. H. Neff made application on behalf of the Thomas Jefferson Eating Club for a site on the grounds of the University for the purpose of erecting a Chapter House. After a full discussion of the matter the following was adopted:

RESOLVED, That the Rector and Visitors of the University approve of the purpose of the Thomas Jefferson Eating Club to build an exact copy of the Temple of Eleusis, in Indiana Limestone, and leases on the usual terms to this Society for that purpose the use of the necessary land, situated in the triangle between the site of the Chapel and residence of Physical Director Lannigan.

The Architectural Commission in charge of the location and erection of the New Gymnasium submitted the following report:

In response to your invitation the undersigned members of the Architectural Commission met at the University to consider sites and recommend a site for the Gymnasium.

In our judgment the problem consists of providing a location which will allow of the necessary space for all the outdoor and indoor activities which are required by the present conception of physical education and also permit of future enlargement to accomodate a greatly increased number of students. The primary consideration of any site must therefore be that it shall afford level space immediately adjacent to the gymnasium building for ball grounds, tennis courts, hand ball courts, running tracks, gymnastic drills for classes of possibly 500 to 1000 men, without interfering with intercollegiate athletics. Another consideration is that the site shall be as near as possible the center of student life, both of class-room and dormitory, so that the gymnasium can be utilized at all hours with the least loss of time, for remedial physical class work, recreational exercises and sports. Since the building will be the largest and most imposing at the University, with the exception of the Rotunda, it is important that it be given a beautiful setting and its architectural qualities thereby enhanced.

With these considerations in mind and after a personal inspection of all the available sites, we recommend that the gymnasium be located west of the present ice pond on the plateau between it and the public road; that the gymnasium face east toward the crossing of Rugby and Ivy Roads; that the marshy ground to the south of the ice pond be filled in to provide level space for outdoor athletic activities; and that the entire level valley between Ivy Road and the Railroad track west of Carr's Hill be reserved and utilized as needed for outdoor athletics and be connected with Lambeth Field through the existing culvert under the railroad track.

We further recommend that the end of the valley south of the ice pond be utilized for future dormitory groups, where, on account of the western slope of the land, three and four story buildings can be erected without conflicting with the two story buildings of the Lawn group.

This comprehensive development, far more thant that of any other which has been considered, will take care of the future needs of the University for dormitories, athletic life, and student recreational activities. The dormitories, golf course, gymnasium skating, tennis courts and outdoor athletics will form a connected group with Lambeth Field that can never be crowded out by other needs of the University, and in this way the mistake which has been made by so many colleges of not providing adequate space for future development avoided.

While we have not allowed oursleves to be influenced too strongly by the desire for beauty of architectural setting, we think that a very important advantage of the site recommended is the great potential charm of the surroundings. The building would be seen from the upper level of the Ivy Road and from the west side of the old grounds, outlined against a background of mountains, with s small lake in front of its main facade, giving a charming reflection and an approach of unusual beauty.

We reached our choice after having rejected the other sites for the following reasons:

The Y. M. C. A. site - Much too small as it gives no adequate space for the outdoor activities of class work and games which equal in importance the indoor activities of a gymnasium, and is surrounded by grounds which cannot be controlled by the University; badly pocketed by the sloping east and west banks so that the treatment of any building will be handicapped.

Site between Kappa Sigma fraternity house and railroad - smaller than the above site and in addition slopes steeply to the west and so situated that any building on it cannot be seen from a distance.

Athletic Casino - no opportunity for outdoor athletics except on Lambeth Field, which is already utilized to the limit with its regular team activities. This site is also farther from the center of student life.

Site between Ivy Road and railroad west of Carr's Hill - it is proposed to incorporate this space into the scheme of athletic development. If the gymnasium were located on this site it would be hidden by Carr's Hill and be further away from student life.

At first glance it might appear that thesite suggested is remote and difficult of access, but this is far from the fact for the distance from the Rotunda to the proposed site is 1200 feet, from the crossing of Rugby and Ivy Roads, 900 feet, and from Monroe Hill, 1000 feet.

The following supplementary report of the Architectural Commission was also submitted:

The Architectural Commission has considered and studied at length all phases of the gymnasium problem and now submits these plans which, in our unanimous professional judgment, are the most economical solution which meets all the obligatory requirements. We submit an approximate estimate of cost prepared by Mr. W. P. Thurston, the Richmond contractor, in the sum of $259,000.00. On this basis we recommend that the Board authorize the preparation of working drawings and specifications on which bids for the work may be secured.

Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolutions were adopted:

RESOLVED, That the Rector and Visitors approve of the site and plans for the proposed gymnasium recommended by the report of the Committee of the Visitors upon the advice of the Architectural Commission appointed to advise upon site and prepare plans for the gymnasium.

RESOLVED, further, That, in lieu of the usual architect's fees for the gymnasium, the sum of $9,500 be and is hereby appropriated for compensation and expenses of the Architectural Commission and of the University Architect's office.

RESOLVED, further, That the Rector and Visitors approve of the resolution passed by the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund, at their meeting on October 24, 1921, that the Board of Alumni Trustees, recognizing the generous subscription of $146,000 by the students of the University to the Centennial Endowment Fund, and further recognizing the urgent need at the University of a new gymnasium, towards the cost of the construction of which the subscription of the students was made, hereby declares that in its judgment the first capital outlay to be made from the proceeds of the Fund should be for the construction of the Gymnasium.

Professor Charles Hancock, Engineer in charge of the construction of the New Heating Plant, submitted the following report:

According to general plans and specifications of the central heating system, prepared by myself and adopted by the engineering faculty, construction will go forward, as funds become available, in three sections. The first section, to be installed for $60,000 now available, comprises:

1\. Permanent mains from the power house to East Range. These mains are of sufficient capacity to serve all buildings west of the Hospital and Chemical laboratory with an allowance of 100% for future development.

2\. Complete heating equipment of East Range, East Lawn and the Rotunda.

3\. The necessary changes and additions to the new power plant to provide for the added load.

This section is now being installed by Messrs. Almirall & Company of New York, and, if weather conditions continue favorable, should be in operation by January first.

The second section comprises:

1\. Extension of permanent mains to Peabody Hall.

2\. Complete heating equipment of West Lawn, West Range, the commons, old medical hall and the Peabody group.

3\. Substantial enlargement of the new power house, erection of a permanent chimney, installation of a large boiler and additional water heaters.

The estimated cost of this section is $96,500.

The third section comprises:

1\. Abandonment of the old power plant and transfer of all apparatus fit for use to the newplant.

2\. Extension of permanent mains from East Range to Brook's museum, the nurses' home, Physical and Mechanical laboratories, Cabell Hall and the old infirmary.

3\. Complete heating equipment of the buildings just mentioned.

4\. Connection to the new system of the present Dawson's Row - Minor Hall lines.

The estimated cost of this section is $88,500.

Contract for the first section was let to Messrs. Almirall & Company, without competitive bids, for the following reasons:

1\. Their estimates and mine of the work which could be done for $60,000 were almost identical, tho made entirely independently.

2\. Preparation of detailed working drawings and exact specifications for competitive bidding would have delayed letting contract until January 1st., and postponed completion of the work until after the present heating season. The old plant is greatly overloaded and relief of the same by connecting East Lawn and the Rotunda to the new plant is imperative.

3\. Much old material in the present installation may be used in the new construction. The value of this material could not be estimated in advance, and ignorance of its value would have presented a serious handicap to competitive bidding and grave probability of disagreement at final settlement.

4\. Messrs Almirall & Company made us a most liberal proposition on a percentage basis. Competitive bids for all materials are submitted to us and orders are given only upon our authorization. As far as practicable materials are bought through local concerns. Local labor, as far as available, is employed. We get the benefit of all cash discounts. We pay all freight and express charges, thus saving the war tax. All bills for material and labor are checked and approved by us before payment. Their books are constantly open to our inspection, and I have now in my files copies of all vouchers approved for payment. Their charge for the work is 15% of the net cost.

5\. It was my conviction, shared unanimously by the engineering faculty, that by selecting contractors of national reputation with long experience and abundant resources for pushing the work, better work would be done and we would get more for our money than could be gotten by letting the contract to less skillful contractors. The conduct of the work thus far has justified this conviction, and I believe, with data now in my possession I can demonstrate that our course was wise.

I shall be glad to go into details more thoroughly or answer any questions that may occur to you and which are not covered by this statement.

Professor Hancock submitted the following estimate from Almirall & Company with reference to extending the present construction from East Range to East Lawn and recommended that the same be authorized.

ATTENTION Mr. Chas. Hancock

In accordance with your request we have estimated the cost of extending the 28″ × 44″ concrete conduit and 12″ mains from manhole # 4 at the East Range to Manhole # 5 at the East Lawn, the installation of a 5″ supply main from manhole # 5 to Prof. Lewis' House and the omission of the temporary 5″ supply and 5″ return from the East Range to the East Lawn.

The performance of this work at the present time will mean a saving of approximately $3200 in the ultimate cost of the work.

Pursuant to the foregoing recommendation, the following was adopted:

WHEREAS Professor Charles Hancock, in charge of installation of the new heating unit reports that the $60,000 available for said work would admit of the concrete conduits and mains being laid to East Range with two temporary 5″ lines to East Lawn and the Rotunda, and that the concrete conduit and 12″ main can be extended from East Range to East Lawn at this time for the additional sum of $7,053, thereby saving approximately $3,200 in this construction, therefore be it

RESOLVED, That Professor Charles Hancock ben and he is hereby authorized to proceed with the construction of the concrete conduit and 12″ main, at a cost not to exceed $7,053, and that said sum be financed from the general funds of the University until the appropriation is made by the State, or is provided from other sources.

The President explained to the Board the requests of the University to be entered in the Governor's Budget for the Biennium 1922-24, which were approved in the following resolutions:

RESOLVED, that the Rector and Visitors approve of the Budget presented by the President to the Governor's Budget Commission.

The following appointments of new professors, instructors and assistants, promotions and certain necessary increases in salaries, made by the President prior to the opening of the present session, were ratified:

Dr. William Edward Brown, Sup't and Medical Director of Blue Ridge Sanatorium.

Mr. John T. Lonsdale, Ass't Professor of Geology

Mr. Alfred J. Swan, Ass't Professor of Music

Dr. Allen Fiske Voshell, Instructor in Orthopedic Surgery

Mr. James M. Strang, B.S., promoted from Instructor in Physiology to Asst Prof.

Mr. F. G. B. Ribble, Jr., M.A. L.L.B, promoted from Instructor in Commercial Law to Acting Professor of Law.

George A. Pierce in place of Henry M. Ware -(appointed May 31)

Murrary Spicer

W. H. Brown

T. G. Akeley

J. L. Belote

Charles D. Carter

W. Gerow Christian

E. C. Field

W. E. Johnson

E. F. Kloman

William H. Laird

J. Lindsay Patton

A. L. Ribble

W. L. Ribble

G. W. Shirley

W. B. Stabler

Clifford L. Stanley

Stephen Webster

E. C. Ross is appointed in place of Hugh Warren

Dr. A. G. A. Balz, Prof. of Philosophy, from $3000.00 to $3500.00

H. H. Lannigan, Physical Director, an increase of $300.00 per year for five years on the General Education Board subscription.

Physical Instructors Owen, Watkins and Davis $275 for the three.

The following resolutions were adopted:

RESOLVED, that the Rector and Visitors approve of the action of the President in granting a leave of absence, for the period of one year, to Dr. Wilfred Eldred, Associate Professor of Business Administration, for work in food research.

RESOLVED, that the Rector and Visitors of the University note with approval the trust fund created by Mr. Paul Goodloe McIntire for the benefit of the University and orders that the papers in the matter of the creation of this fund be spread upon the minutes.

"THIS INDENTURE, Made the 10th day of October, in the year one thousand nine hundred and twenty-One, between PAUL G. MC INTIRE, of the Town of Charlottesville, Virginia, party of the first part, and UNITED STATES TRUST COMPANY OF NEW YORK, party of the second part,

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, The party of the first part desire to create a trust fund for the use, support and benefit of the UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, situated in the Town of Charlottesville, Virginia;

NOW, THEREFORE, In consideration of the premises and the sum of the dollar by the party of the second part paid to the party of the first part, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, the party of the first part by these presents does transfer and deliver unto the party of the second part, its successors and assigns,

TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the said property to the part of the second part, its successors and assigns, in trust, however, for the following uses and purposes, namely: To hold, manager, invest and reinvest the same, to collect and receive the interest income and profits thereof, and, after deducting all proper charges and expenses, to pay the said interest, income and profits to the Bursar of said UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA for general expenses in managing and maintaining said University, such payments to be made in quarterly installments at convenient periods.

The party of the second part is hereby expressly authorized and empowered in its discretion, to hold the said property in the form of investment in which it receives the same and in the like discretion to sell property, or any part thereof, as well as any property hereafter acquired in trust hereunder, and to reinvest the same and the proceeds of the sale thereof in the bonds or capital stock of any corporation in the United States whose bonds or capital stock are commonly bought and sold in the City of New York, even though such securities may not be of a nature authorized by the laws of the State of New York for the investment of trust funds, provided that no purchase or sale shall be made except upon the consent in writing of the person who at the time is President of the said UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA.

It is understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that the commissions of the party of the second part for the execution of the trusts hereby created are fixed at 2% upon the interest and income received by it from the said trust estate and paid over in accordance with the provisions of this deed, said 2% to be deducted from such income at the time of such payment.

The party of the second part hereby accepts the trusts hereby created and covenants that it will faithfully perform and discharge all the duties of its office as such trustee.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The parties hereto have executed this instrument in duplicate the day and year first above written

Sealed and delivered in the presence of:

(Signed) Paul G. McIntire UNITED STATES TRUST COMPANY OF NEW YORK

By, Vice President.

STATE OF VIRGINIA SS:

COUNTY OF ALBEMARLE SS:

On this       day of October, 1921, before me personnaly came PAUL G. MCINTIRE, to me known, and known to me to be the person described in an who executed the foregoing instrument, and he acknowledged to me that he executed the same.

(Signed) Louise F. Wheeler, N.P.

STATE OF NEW YORK, SS:

COUNTY OF NEW YORK, SS:

On this       day of October, 1921, before me personnaly came WILLIAMSON PELL, to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he resides in the Village of Rye, New York; that he is the Vice President of the United States Trust Company of New York, the corporation described in and which executed the foregoing instrument; that he knows the seal of said corporation; that the seal which is affixed to said instrument is such corporate seal; that it was so affixed by authority of the Board of Trustees of said corporation, and that he signed his name there to as its Vice President bylike authority.

RESOLVED, that the Rectorand Visitors of the University have received with approval the report of Prof. A. M. Dobie, Executive Director of the Centennial Endowment Fund and have ordered the same to be spread upon the minutes of the Board.

Messrs. John Stewart Bryan & Frederic W. Scott,

Joint and Alternate Chairmen,

University of Virginia Centennial Endowment Fund.

The original organization of the Centennial Endowment Fund was effected at the home of John Stewart Bryan, "Laburnum", at a meeting, on June 19, 1920, by representatives of the Board of Visitors, Faculty and Alumni of the University of Virginia. At this meeting, Messrs. John Stewart Bryan and Frederic W. Scott were elected Joint and Alternate Chairmen, and Armistead M. Dobie, Executive Director.

From July 12th to July 15th, I spent at the University, studying the standard plans used by other Universities in raising Endowment Funds, in securing the necessary preliminary information, and in having prepared card catalogues of the University of Virginia Alumni. Before the opening of the Richmond Headquarters, the services of Mr. Chas. A. McKeand were secured as Executive Secretary, and Mr. Chas. S. Trimmer as Publicity Director. The Publicity office was located at the University. The cordial co-operation was secured at the University of Mr. Lewis D. Crenshaw, Alumni Secretary, and Mr. Wm. Matthews, Assistant Alumni Secretary, and Prof. J. L. Newcomb, Chairman of the Centennial Celebration Committee.

Early in October, the general headquarters were established in Richmond, at 920 1/2 East Main Street, in an office graciously donated, without charge, by Bryan Brothers. The office contained furniture, so that a very small outlay was necessary to begin work. The personnel of the office at first consisted of Armistead M. Dobie, and Mrs. Rosalie M. Noland, who, throughout the entire Campaign, acted as Secretary to the Executive officers.

An Executive Committee of eleven men was designated, of which the Executive officers of the Fund, with the exception of Mr. Trimmer, were all members. A. National Committee of sixty was selected, consisting of distinguished men in all walks of life, from various sections of the Country. It was impossible ever to call the Exectuve Commiteee together, however, and the National Committee had no executive functions, as a Committee.

The United States was divided into forth-three Regions, and a Regional Chairman was secured for each Region. A chairman for the Army, and one for the Navy, brought the number of Regional Chairmen up to forty-five. Under the Regional Chairmen, Local Chairmen were appointed, the Local Chairmen numbering One Hundred Sixty.

The Virginia Trust Company of Richmond, Virginia was designated as Depositary of the Fund, during the period of its collection, under the special direction of Mr. Chas. Watkins, Bond Officer of this Company. Senator Carter Glass graciously consented to act as Centenial Treasurer of the Fund, with the understanding that he would not be expected to give much active service.

On Thanksgiving Day, the Executive officers, the Regional Chairmen, and a few representative Local Chairmen gathered at the University on the occasion of the Virginia-Carolina Foot Ball Game. A pilgrimage was made around the University, and the President of the University, and the Deans of the various departments made brief statements on the ground of the imminent needs of the University.

The original plan contemplated the beginning of solicitation of subscriptions on January 3rd. The economic condition of the United States, however, in the judgment of the Executive officers, necessitated the postponement until March 7th, at which time the active solicitation of subscriptions began.

December 28th was designated, by Dr. Hugh Young, President of the Alumni Association, as University of Virginia Night, and meetings on this date, were held all over the United States. Wherever it was practical, these meetings were addressed by representatives of the Fund, and by members of the Faculty of the University of Virginia. Wide spread local publicity was, of course, given to each meeting, and student representatives brought to each meeting, greetings from the President of the University.

In spite of the postponement, which gave Local and Regional Chairmen two additional months for preparation, the movement was slow in getting under way, and great difficulty was experienced in getting Local and Regional Chairmen to do much active solicitation, during the early periods of the movement. The start was, accordingly, far from hopeful.

While trips were made to various places by President Alderman, the Faculty, of the University of Virginia, and by John Stewart Bryan, a systematic effort was made by Messrs. Dobie and McKeand to visit personally every Regional Chairman east of the Rockies, and every important city from Texas to Massachusetts. Messrs. Dobie and McKeand actually visited forty-seven cities, from Boston to San Antonio, and from Chicago to Jacksonville, Florida. In may of these places, addresses were made before Alumni gatherings, and every effort was made to stimulate Alumni energy and enthusiasm.

It was decided to make a whirlwind campaign of the Student Body, for the purpose of raising funds for the erection of a new Gymnasium. This Student Campaign was staged in mid-winter, to avoid any conflict with the examination period. The movement proved a splended success, over $140,000. being raised, and it is believed that this was the finest bit of idealism in the entire movement. Too much credit cannot be given to the Student Body for their splended service and sacrifice.

On the eve of the commencement of solicitation, conditions were such in New York City, that it was decided to send the Executive Director there for an extended period, and from the end of February, until the early part of April the Executive Director remained in New York City, organizing the movement there, and actively engaging in the solicitation of subscriptions. For nearly a month, President Alderman also stayed in New York City, giving himself unreservedly to the work of the Endowment Fund. It is believed that this was a wise movement, and the results seemed to justify the rather unusual procedure of having the Executive Director absent from headquarters for so long a time.

The Alumni News, for eight months, was especially edited in the cause of the Endowment Fund, and was sent, at the expense of the Fund, to every living alumnus. A major pamphlet was prepared with attractive illustrations       and charts, and these too were sent to every alumnus. Copies were sent to prospective donors, and a supply furnished each Local and Regional Chairman. Departmental Pamphlets, dealing with the needs of each department of the University of Virginia, were sent to each alumnus, and each Chairman, and a carefully prepared pamphlet, showing the distinguished service of the University alumni to the State and Nation was also sent to each alumnus, and prospective donors.

In addition, a standard plan of organization was prepared, and a Canvasser's Hand Book. These were sent to all workers, and to Chairmen, in quantities. Periodic bulletins, five in number, were also sent to all Chairmen.

An elaborate publicity department was organized, at the University, under the direction of Mr. Chas. S. Trimmer, who always had the loyal co-operation of Mr. Grenshaw and Mr. Matthews. From October 1st, 1920 to June 8th 1921, over 5000 clippings about the University of Virginia, representing more than 1,500 columns of newspaper space, appeared in National publications. While this work was done in the immediate needs of the Centennial Endowment Fund, it is believed that untold good was accomplished for the future of the University of Virginia. For the first time in its history, an experienced publicity man gave his whole time to this work. The publicity office rendered yeomen's service, too, in preparing the various pamphlets, which were sent out to alumni.

Mr. Lewis D. Crenshaw directed the making of a four-reel moving picture entitled "The Shadow of the Founder", dealing with the life history of the University of Virginia, and its present day activities. The technical work on this picture and the photography were splendidly done by Mr. Otto Gilmore of New York City. This film was shown in all the large towns in Virginia, in New York City, and other strategic points in the East. The cordial reception given to it everywhere proved its genuine worth. It is to be regretted that this picture was not completed until May.

Mr. Duncan Smith, a loyal alumnus of New York, painted two attractive posters, one for the Endowment Fund, and one for the Celebration. These were given wide circulation over the country, and were posted in railroad stations of the principal railroads, operating through Virginia.

President Alderman, at the Centennial Celebration, announced that the round sum of $1,300,000. had been raised as a result of the Campaign. He also announced the $200,000 gift of Mr. Paul G. McIntire, to endow a school of Commerce and Finance. Through this was not technically a gift to the Fund, it practically made an even Million and a Half Dollars.

The progress of the Fund is indicated by the following figures at various stages of the work:

A quota was assigned to each Regional District, but no quota was assigned to the Army or Navy, or to the Student Body. The only districts that raised their quotas were the Charlottesville District, under the able direction of Mr. Allen Perkins, and the District, comprising the States of New Mexico, Nevade, Utah and Arizona, under Mr. Herndon Norris of Prescott, Arizona. The largest actual sum, of course, was raised in New York. The Richmond District and the Norfolk District were practically tiedfor the second place, at the time of the Centennial.

The most discouraging results were naturally reached in the far Southern States, due to the acute economic crisis prevailing in that section.

This total of actual subscriptions amount to 1,272,725.25 was contributed as follows:

At the time of this report, July 9th., 1921, cash and securities, as follows, were held by the designated banks.

The Cash balances in the Richmond Banks draw 3% interest

The balances in the Charlottesville Banks draw no interest.

These balances in the Charbttesville banks include only the amounts deposited by W. A. Perkins, Regional Chairman. These balances do not include any amounts collected by these banks on the subscription blanks turned over to the banks by A. M. Dobie, Executive Director.

The Richmond Headquarters were closed July 9th, at which date the executive direction of the Fund passed to the Alumni Secretary's Office. A sum, not exceeding $10,000, was appropriated from the Fund for the purpose of financing the Alumni Office, in order that it might properly carry on this work. I have strongly recommended that Mrs. Noland be employed in the Alumni Office, for the purpose of carrying on the work of the Fund, with which she is, or course, absolutely familiar.

The Student subscriptions and the Charlottesville subscriptions were distributed among the four Charlottesville Banks for collection. These banks agreed to perform this service without cost to the Fund. All other subscriptions were turned over to the Virginia Trust Company, Depositary of the Fund, which also agreed to collect these subscriptions without cost to the University.

The largest salary, $200. a week, was paid to Mr. Chas. A. McKeand, from October 15th to May 31st. The Executive Director received from the Endowment Fund the salary of $208.66 a month. The remainder of his University salary was paid by the University. From July 12th to September 15th, while the preliminary work was being done at the University, the Executive Director received no salary whatever from the Endowment Fund, paying even his own living expenses. Mr. Trimmer received a salary of $145.00 a week. Mrs. Noland received $125. a month. Mr. Trimmer found it necessary to employ one regular stenographer at $100. a month, subsequently reduced to $90., and both at the University and in Richmond, it was necessary, at times, to employ extra stenographic assistance.

Expenses of running the Richmond Office, exclusive of the salaries of Messrs. Dobie and McKeand, and Mrs. Noland, amounted to $15,373.25. These expenses can be classified as follows:

In connection with these expenses, and the same is true of those paid by Mr. Carruthers, it was frequently impossible to draw a line between the Endowment Fund and the Centennial Celebration, and some of the expenses paid under the Endowment Fund Account, (for example, the Centennial Celebration Posters), might well have been charged to the Centennial Celebration. As both these expenses were paid out of the Fund, this becomes merely a question of bookkeeping.

According to a statement furnished by E.I. Carruthers, Bursar, he paid out from his office, on account of the Centennial Endowment Fund account, the sum of $28,508.38.

The expenses can be classified as follows:

At first blush, the publicity expenses may seem rather large and out of proportion. Every effort was made to keep these down, however, and attention is called to the fact of the great good effected for the University, apart from the raising of the Endowment Fund. Owing to the generosity of Bryan Brothers of Richmond, office expenses and office equipment was reduced to a minimum.

It is believed further that no college movement of this magnitude has ever been conducted with so small an office force.

Many untoward causes militated against the complete success of the Campaign, The most obvious of these was the universal economic depression all over the Country. Even men of large means, suffering from acute comparative psychological poverty, either refused to give or gave nominal sums.

The most discouraging feature of the Campaign was alumni apathy. The younger men, whose contact with the University is recent, were in the main energetic and generous. As a class, the older alumni did rather poorly.

There were also many other contributing causes to weaken the loyalty of the alumni, of whom we seem to have a great many, whose loyalty to the University seems to depend upon affairs being regulated at the University, absolutely according to their opinions. Dissatisfaction with athletic policies, co-education at the University, and the prospect of removing the medical school to Richmond, all had a bad effect on the Campaign.

It is a pleasure for me to bear cheerful testimony of the loyal support tendered by my executive associates. The Joint and Alternate Chairmen were always courteous and more than willing to undertake any task imposed upon them. Their advice and counsel was invaluable. Mr. McKeand showed untiring zeal and fine loyalty during the progress of the work, and Mrs. Noland proved herself a tower of strength. During a considerable period of time, while Mr. McKeand and I were absent from Richmond, she ran the headquarters single handed.

While the task of raising money is essentially unpleasant, and while it is very trying on the nervous system to run a great enterprise, with volunteer aids, in distant cities, who work without pay and who cannot be severely criticized, yet, in the language of President Alderman, "I count it a joy and a gladness" to have been of any service to the University of Virginia, which it is my pride and privilege to serve.

RESOLVED, that the Rector and Visitors have received with approval the report of Prof. J. L. Newcomb, Chairman of the Committee on the Centennial Celebration and have ordered that it be spread upon the minutes.

I have the honor to transmit herewith a financial statement covering the cost of the Centennial Celebration of the University of Virginia held May thirty-first to June third, Nineteen Hundred and Twenty-one.

RESOLVED, that the scale of fees and tuition in the several departments of the University be established as follows, beginning with the session 1922-23. (Mr. Oliver voted in the negative).

The President presented a communication from Prof. W. H. Faulkner requesting an appropriation of $179.75 to reimburse him in that sum for repairs made to Pavillion 1 West Lawn in excess of the $1000.00 appropriation made by the Board of Visitors for that purpose. After due consideration of the request the Board declined to grant the appropriation.

The President reported to the Board receipt of a check for $15,000 from the General Education Board, same being payment for the six months period ending December 31st 1921 on account of the grant to the University for increasing teachers' salaries.

The President presented the following concerning the duties of the Dean of Women, which was adopted:

"Definite duties of a Dean of Women at the University of Virginia.

Acting as adviser to entering women, former and new students. This would include advising on their courses if they wanted it, but the best type, capable of doing independent work, would certainly prefer advising with the dean of the faculty in which work is to be done, or someone like that.

Helping the women organize and enrich their academic and social life.

Holding office hours for consultation and advice

Visiting and establishing relations with other colleges for women especially in Virginia. In connexion with this, I should think that attendance at the conference of the National Association of Deans of Women might be desirable.

Seeking names of especially desirable prospective women students, and corresponding with them. This would involve also some plan of attracting desirable women students by scholarships and fellowships, not primarily for the pecuniary value of the scholarships and fellowships, but for the honour they confer.

Organizing some sort of "bureau of vocational guidance", perhaps on the lines of the Southern Women's Educational Alliance in Richmond, perhaps simply as a clearing house for inquiries, or perhaps for real placement work.

Studying the problems arising out of the admission of women to the University, and advising as to the development of future policies."

The following resolution was received from the State Council of Administrative Women in Education adopted at their annual meeting in Richmond on November 24th 1921 with request that it receive favorable action; but the Board did not take action thereon.

The State Council of Administrative Women in Education wishes to express to the Board of Visitors and Faculty of the University of Virginia its gratification at the appointment of a Dean of Women at the University and at the action of those departments of the University which have opened their doors on equal terms to both men and women.

It also wishes to renew its request of last year that the University admit women students to the remaining graduate and professional departments, including the newly established School of Fine Arts, on the same basis as men students.

The State Council further requests that adequate dormitory facilities be provided for the women. The Council wishes to emphasize its conviction that suitable living and social con- ditions are most important in the life of the University."

The President presented a communication from Mr. John R. Morris, Chairman of the Filtration Committee of the City Council of the City of Charlottesville, Va., asking for the privilege of constructing a filter plant on Observatory Mountain for the purpose of supplying the City of Charlottesville and the University with a pure water supply, and which would also be the means of greatly increasing the water pressure of the grounds of the University.

On October 10th, 1921 the Common Council of the City of Charlottesville appointed a committee composed of J. R. Morris, Chairman; W. M. Forrest; City Mgr., Walter Washabaugh and J. P. Greaver to make thorough investigation of the water situation in Charlottesville, and to get up plans and specifications for filter and aeration plant.

This Committee realizing the importance of a thorough investigation of the water question employed the firm of Williamson, Carroll & Saunders of Charlottesville to make necessary surveys, secure samples of water from Maury Creek, present reservoir and Moorman River, to have bacteriological and chemical analyses of same made in order to determine type of filter required to treat our present water supply, and also to take care of proposed Moorman River water supply whenever that project is carried out; and to get up plans and specifications for filter plant. As a further precaution we employed Mr. George W. Fuller of the firm of Fuller & McClintock of New York as consulting engineer, after careful investigation of his ability and reputation as an authority on water questions.

Upon the completion of preliminary surveys by our engineers, and after getting report from the chemists who made the analysis of the samples of water, Mr. Fuller came down and went over the entire situation with Williamson, Carroll, & Saunders, together with Mr. Richard Messer, Chief Engr., State Board of Health, and two members of our committee. After giving the entire situation careful study, Mr. Fuller set out his recommendations as to type, size and location of filter in a letter to my committee, copy of which I am herewith enclosing you.

Upon receipt of Mr. Fuller's letter, I had copy of same made and sent it to Mr. Messer, writing him at the same time, requesting that he go over Mr. Fuller's recommendations carefully and if he felt they would take care of the water situation in Charlottesville to write me to that effect, but if not to advise me what changes he would recommend. I am enclosing copy of my letter to Mr. Messer, also copy of his reply to same.

I did this so as to get approval of the State Board of Health, and I am sending you the enclosed correspondence in order that you may be entirely familiar with all proceedings up to this time.

You will note that Mr. Fuller recommends that the filter plant be located on Observatory Mountain, reasons for same being set forth in his letter of Nov. 11, 1921.

The type of plant recommended by Mr. Fuller will require 3 1/2 acres of land for its construction, and in addition will require rightof way for pipe line as shown on map which I am enclosing you.

We understand that the University is contemplating putting up a water tower with necessary pumping facilities in order to get increased pressure in the University area, and that $15,000.00 has been included in the next budget to cover cost of this improvement.

If the filter plant is built as outlined above, it will make unnecessary your proposed water improvement, as it will give you an adequate supply of pure water by gravity with ample pressure at the highest point on the University grounds, thereby doing away with your proposed pumping plant, which at the very best would be an expensive proposition, and would call for continual outlay for operation and maintenance. Therefore in view of the situation as outline in this letter, we respectfully request that the city of Charlottesville be given the necessary lan, right—of-way for pipe line and roadways for construction and maintenance of this plant, such privilege to be covered by long term lease with privilege of renewal, and in addition that the $15,000.00 mentioned above be applied to the cost of construction of filter plant.

In order to prevent repetition of the water situation which existed in charlottesville during the past summer, the city bodies are very anxious to get filter plant construction started as soon as possible, so it can be completed in the early spring.

I understand that the Board of Visitors of the University will meet on the 29th of November; therefore, urgently request that you lay this matter before them at this meeting and ask them to act on it, advising me at your earliest convenience of their decision. I am confident that you will realize that this matter is one of vital importance both to the University of Va. and to the City of Charlottesville, and sincerely trust that you will approve of the entire plan as outlined and will use your influence to get favorable action from the Board of Visitors.

Mr. Washabaugh, Mr. Williamson and myself went over this entire matter with Dr. Lambeth this morning, and it was his suggestion that I write this letter, which I feel confident will receive his endorsement.

If you or the members of the Board of Visitors would like to have either Mr. Williamson, Mr. Washabaugh or myself appear before you in person to go into this matter more fully we will be glad for you to call on us at any time.

Pursuant to the foregoing and after a full discussion of the matter the following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, The City of Charlottesville is now engaged in a survey looking to the erection of a filtration plant for the purpose of purifying the water supply of the City and the University, which plant is desired be located on Observatory Mountain upon the land of the University, requiring about 3 1/2 acres of land, and

WHEREAS, The quality of water supplied to the University will be greatly improved by filtration, and also by the location of this source of intake for the University the pressure will be much greater than at present thereby safeguarding property in case of fire and adding to the comfort and convenience of the water users on the grounds of the University, and

WHEREAS, If the said plant be erected the necessity for the erection of a stand-pipe and tower by the University to increase the pressure and the continuous operation of the pump to supply said tower will be rendered unnecessary, therefore be it

RESOLVED, That the City of Charlottesville be leased a site upon Observatory Mountain, to consist of approximately 3 1/2 acres for the purpose of constructing a filtration plant, for a term of 99 years without charge, the necessary papers to be prepared by the attorneys of the University, and that the sum of $15,000, or so much, if any, thereof, as may be appropriated by the Legislature for the purpose of improving the water system at the University, be and is hereby appropriated for the purpose of aiding in the erection of the proposed filtration plant.

The President advised the Board of a bequest to the University under the will of the late Miss. Este Coffinberry of Gettysburg, Penna., for the purpose of establishing one or more lectureships in Christian religion and of comparative history. The value of the bequest is not yeat determined as the Executor was just appointed on October 20th 1921.

I, Este Coffinberry, of the City of South San Francisco, County of San Mateo, State of California, being in sound mind and memory, do hereby make, publish and declare this my last will in manner and form as follows, that is to say:

FIRST, I direct the payment of all of my just debts and funeral expenses.

SECOND. I request my executor, hereinafter named, to deposit my Meissen porcelain bearing the Saxon Coat of Arms in some museum which he shall choose, and cause said porcelain to be placed in the Ceramic Collection under the name of Marie E. Richard and to be duly labeled and cased at the expense of such museum.

THIRD. I give, devise and bequeath all my other household furniture and all my clothing to W. H. Coffinberry of the City of South San Francisco, County of San Mateo, State of California.

FOURTH. I give, devise and bequeath all my other property, real and personal, of whatsoever nature the same may be, or wheresoever situated, of which I may die possessed, or to which I may be entitled, to the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia to be used by them for the following purposes:

The founding of a lectureship that shall be called the James W. Richard lectureship in Christian Religion, said lectureship being subject to the conditions herein stated. The lecturer shall be a man of Evangelic faith and of international reputation as a scholar in the department of theology or religion from which his subject is selected. He shall hold the lectureship for not less than Two (2) years. The lecturer shall be at liberty to choose his subject within the range of Christianity, providing the subject matter pertains to the advancement and application of the principles of the gospels.

The lecturer shall be required to deliver publicly at the University of Virginia a course of lectures, not less than Ten (10) in number on the chosen subject, just before the expiration of the term for which he is appointed, at such time and place as the faculty of said University shal direct. He shall be required to print and publish at his own expense not less than Five Hundred (500) copies of his lecture within Six (6) months from the time of their delivery; and he shall be further required to deposit three (3) copies in the library of the said University of Virginia, and One (10) copy in the library of each of the institutions names as follows:

The Lutheran Theological Seminary at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, Wittenberg College at Springfield, Ohio, Carthage College at Carthage, Illinois; Midland College at Atchison, Kansas. The form ans style of this publication shall be regulated by the trustees in which this foundation shall vest.

Half of the money to be paid to the lecturer for his course of lectures shall be withheld until the said lectures are published in a manner satisfactory to the trustees in which this foundation and the above mentioned deposits are made.

FIFTH. It is my hope and present expectation that I shall be able at my decease to leave a fund larger and more valuable than will suffice to provide for the above mentioned lectureship. In such case should the funds of my estate prove sufficient, it is further my will that another lectureship be founded under exactly the same conditions as the lectureship above set forth as to founding, number of lectures, printing and publishing as well as depositing printed volumes. The lecturer appointed shall also be a man of international reputation whose published work shall be generally valuable to the world.

This second lectureship shall treat comparatively and exhaustively some period of history, and I suggest that a course be laid out to be treated consecutively by various special lectures and properly adjusted to the work of said University and its several departments. The long course of lectures delivered by various men at various times should be adjusted so as to avoid repetition and give to the public a set of volumes valuable both as to facts and illuminating treatment. It is my desire that mere copyists be excluded and that men should be found who know historical sources and love to tell the truths there recorded and who will not distort them for a purpose.

This lectureship shall be called the James W. Richard Lectureship of Comparative History.

SIXTH. I nominate and appoint W. H. Coffinberry, of South San Francisco, County of San Mateo, State of California, executor of this my last will and testament and request that he may be permitted to serve as such executor without bonds. I hereby authorize the said W. H. Coffinberry to sell any property which may belong to my estate with out an order of court therefore, either at public or private sale, and with or without notice, as the said W. H. Coffinberry may determine. I hereby revoke any and all former wills by me made.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand and seal this 30th day of October, 1920.

ESTE Coffinberry (SEAL)

The Bursar having communicated to the Board the probability of having to borrow to meet current needs, awaiting the receipt of certain income, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, That the Bursar be and is hereby authorized and empowered to borrow from the local banks from time to time and in such sums as may be necessary to meet current needs of the University, and in anticipation of current income, not to exceed the sum of $40,000; and such notes as may be executed by him for said purpose shall be paid as promptly as may be out of the income of the University available therefor, and he shall report to each and every subsequent meeting of this Board the total amount borrowed under this authority unpaid at such time.

On motion the meeting then adjourned.

In response to your invitation the undersigned members of the Architectural Commission met at the University to consider sites and recommend a site for the Gymnasium.

In our judgment the problem consists of providing a location which will allow of the necessary space for all the outdoor and indoor activities which are required by the present conception of physical education and also permit of future enlargement to accomodate a greatly increased number of students. The primary consideration of any site must therefore be that it shall afford level space immediately adjacent to the gymnasium building for ball grounds, tennis courts, hand ball courts, running tracks, gymnastic drills for classes of possibly 500 to 1000 men, without interfering with intercollegiate athletics. Another consideration is that the site shall be as near as possible the center of student life, both of class-room and dormitory, so that the gymnasium can be utilized at all hours with the least loss of time, for remedial physical class work, recreational exercises and sports. Since the building will be the largest and most imposing at the University, with the exception of the Rotunda, it is important that it be given a beautiful setting and its architectural qualities thereby enhanced.

With these considerations in mind and after a personal inspection of all the available sites, we recommend that the gymnasium be located west of the present ice pond on the plateau between it and the public road; that the gymnasium face east toward the crossing of Rugby and Ivy Roads; that the marshy ground to the south of the ice pond be filled in to provide level space for outdoor athletic activities; and that the entire level valley between Ivy Road and the Railroad track west of Carr's Hill be reserved and utilized as needed for outdoor athletics and be connected with Lambeth Field through the existing culvert under the railroad track.

We further recommend that the end of the valley south of the ice pond be utilized for future dormitory groups, where, on account of the western slope of the land, three and four story buildings can be erected without conflicting with the two story buildings of the Lawn group.

This comprehensive development, far more thant that of any other which has been considered, will take care of the future needs of the University for dormitories, athletic life, and student recreational activities. The dormitories, golf course, gymnasium skating, tennis courts and outdoor athletics will form a connected group with Lambeth Field that can never be crowded out by other needs of the University, and in this way the mistake which has been made by so many colleges of not providing adequate space for future development avoided.

While we have not allowed oursleves to be influenced too strongly by the desire for beauty of architectural setting, we think that a very important advantage of the site recommended is the great potential charm of the surroundings. The building would be seen from the upper level of the Ivy Road and from the west side of the old grounds, outlined against a background of mountains, with s small lake in front of its main facade, giving a charming reflection and an approach of unusual beauty.

We reached our choice after having rejected the other sites for the following reasons:

The Y. M. C. A. site - Much too small as it gives no adequate space for the outdoor activities of class work and games which equal in importance the indoor activities of a gymnasium, and is surrounded by grounds which cannot be controlled by the University; badly pocketed by the sloping east and west banks so that the treatment of any building will be handicapped.

Site between Kappa Sigma fraternity house and railroad - smaller than the above site and in addition slopes steeply to the west and so situated that any building on it cannot be seen from a distance.

Athletic Casino - no opportunity for outdoor athletics except on Lambeth Field, which is already utilized to the limit with its regular team activities. This site is also farther from the center of student life.

Site between Ivy Road and railroad west of Carr's Hill - it is proposed to incorporate this space into the scheme of athletic development. If the gymnasium were located on this site it would be hidden by Carr's Hill and be further away from student life.

At first glance it might appear that thesite suggested is remote and difficult of access, but this is far from the fact for the distance from the Rotunda to the proposed site is 1200 feet, from the crossing of Rugby and Ivy Roads, 900 feet, and from Monroe Hill, 1000 feet.

The Architectural Commission has considered and studied at length all phases of the gymnasium problem and now submits these plans which, in our unanimous professional judgment, are the most economical solution which meets all the obligatory requirements. We submit an approximate estimate of cost prepared by Mr. W. P. Thurston, the Richmond contractor, in the sum of $259,000.00. On this basis we recommend that the Board authorize the preparation of working drawings and specifications on which bids for the work may be secured.

According to general plans and specifications of the central heating system, prepared by myself and adopted by the engineering faculty, construction will go forward, as funds become available, in three sections. The first section, to be installed for $60,000 now available, comprises:

1\. Permanent mains from the power house to East Range. These mains are of sufficient capacity to serve all buildings west of the Hospital and Chemical laboratory with an allowance of 100% for future development.

2\. Complete heating equipment of East Range, East Lawn and the Rotunda.

3\. The necessary changes and additions to the new power plant to provide for the added load.

This section is now being installed by Messrs. Almirall & Company of New York, and, if weather conditions continue favorable, should be in operation by January first.

The second section comprises:

1\. Extension of permanent mains to Peabody Hall.

2\. Complete heating equipment of West Lawn, West Range, the commons, old medical hall and the Peabody group.

3\. Substantial enlargement of the new power house, erection of a permanent chimney, installation of a large boiler and additional water heaters.

The estimated cost of this section is $96,500.

The third section comprises:

1\. Abandonment of the old power plant and transfer of all apparatus fit for use to the newplant.

2\. Extension of permanent mains from East Range to Brook's museum, the nurses' home, Physical and Mechanical laboratories, Cabell Hall and the old infirmary.

3\. Complete heating equipment of the buildings just mentioned.

4\. Connection to the new system of the present Dawson's Row - Minor Hall lines.

The estimated cost of this section is $88,500.

Contract for the first section was let to Messrs. Almirall & Company, without competitive bids, for the following reasons:

1\. Their estimates and mine of the work which could be done for $60,000 were almost identical, tho made entirely independently.

2\. Preparation of detailed working drawings and exact specifications for competitive bidding would have delayed letting contract until January 1st., and postponed completion of the work until after the present heating season. The old plant is greatly overloaded and relief of the same by connecting East Lawn and the Rotunda to the new plant is imperative.

3\. Much old material in the present installation may be used in the new construction. The value of this material could not be estimated in advance, and ignorance of its value would have presented a serious handicap to competitive bidding and grave probability of disagreement at final settlement.

4\. Messrs Almirall & Company made us a most liberal proposition on a percentage basis. Competitive bids for all materials are submitted to us and orders are given only upon our authorization. As far as practicable materials are bought through local concerns. Local labor, as far as available, is employed. We get the benefit of all cash discounts. We pay all freight and express charges, thus saving the war tax. All bills for material and labor are checked and approved by us before payment. Their books are constantly open to our inspection, and I have now in my files copies of all vouchers approved for payment. Their charge for the work is 15% of the net cost.

5\. It was my conviction, shared unanimously by the engineering faculty, that by selecting contractors of national reputation with long experience and abundant resources for pushing the work, better work would be done and we would get more for our money than could be gotten by letting the contract to less skillful contractors. The conduct of the work thus far has justified this conviction, and I believe, with data now in my possession I can demonstrate that our course was wise.

I shall be glad to go into details more thoroughly or answer any questions that may occur to you and which are not covered by this statement.

We estimate this work will cost the additional sum of SEVEN THOUSAND AND FIFTY-THREE DOLLARS

$7053.

including full allowance for the ommissions mentioned.

This manner of performing and charging for this work to be in accordance with our proposal dated September 29, 1921 and similar in all respects to the work now being done and covered in specification except that the limit cost will be increased to SIXTY-SEVEN THOUSAND AND FIFTY-THREE DOLLARS

$67053.

ATTENTION Mr. Chas. Hancock

In accordance with your request we have estimated the cost of extending the 28″ × 44″ concrete conduit and 12″ mains from manhole # 4 at the East Range to Manhole # 5 at the East Lawn, the installation of a 5″ supply main from manhole # 5 to Prof. Lewis' House and the omission of the temporary 5″ supply and 5″ return from the East Range to the East Lawn.

The performance of this work at the present time will mean a saving of approximately $3200 in the ultimate cost of the work.

On October 10th, 1921 the Common Council of the City of Charlottesville appointed a committee composed of J. R. Morris, Chairman; W. M. Forrest; City Mgr., Walter Washabaugh and J. P. Greaver to make thorough investigation of the water situation in Charlottesville, and to get up plans and specifications for filter and aeration plant.

This Committee realizing the importance of a thorough investigation of the water question employed the firm of Williamson, Carroll & Saunders of Charlottesville to make necessary surveys, secure samples of water from Maury Creek, present reservoir and Moorman River, to have bacteriological and chemical analyses of same made in order to determine type of filter required to treat our present water supply, and also to take care of proposed Moorman River water supply whenever that project is carried out; and to get up plans and specifications for filter plant. As a further precaution we employed Mr. George W. Fuller of the firm of Fuller & McClintock of New York as consulting engineer, after careful investigation of his ability and reputation as an authority on water questions.

Upon the completion of preliminary surveys by our engineers, and after getting report from the chemists who made the analysis of the samples of water, Mr. Fuller came down and went over the entire situation with Williamson, Carroll, & Saunders, together with Mr. Richard Messer, Chief Engr., State Board of Health, and two members of our committee. After giving the entire situation careful study, Mr. Fuller set out his recommendations as to type, size and location of filter in a letter to my committee, copy of which I am herewith enclosing you.

Upon receipt of Mr. Fuller's letter, I had copy of same made and sent it to Mr. Messer, writing him at the same time, requesting that he go over Mr. Fuller's recommendations carefully and if he felt they would take care of the water situation in Charlottesville to write me to that effect, but if not to advise me what changes he would recommend. I am enclosing copy of my letter to Mr. Messer, also copy of his reply to same.

I did this so as to get approval of the State Board of Health, and I am sending you the enclosed correspondence in order that you may be entirely familiar with all proceedings up to this time.

You will note that Mr. Fuller recommends that the filter plant be located on Observatory Mountain, reasons for same being set forth in his letter of Nov. 11, 1921.

The type of plant recommended by Mr. Fuller will require 3 1/2 acres of land for its construction, and in addition will require rightof way for pipe line as shown on map which I am enclosing you.

We understand that the University is contemplating putting up a water tower with necessary pumping facilities in order to get increased pressure in the University area, and that $15,000.00 has been included in the next budget to cover cost of this improvement.

If the filter plant is built as outlined above, it will make unnecessary your proposed water improvement, as it will give you an adequate supply of pure water by gravity with ample pressure at the highest point on the University grounds, thereby doing away with your proposed pumping plant, which at the very best would be an expensive proposition, and would call for continual outlay for operation and maintenance. Therefore in view of the situation as outline in this letter, we respectfully request that the city of Charlottesville be given the necessary lan, right—of-way for pipe line and roadways for construction and maintenance of this plant, such privilege to be covered by long term lease with privilege of renewal, and in addition that the $15,000.00 mentioned above be applied to the cost of construction of filter plant.

In order to prevent repetition of the water situation which existed in charlottesville during the past summer, the city bodies are very anxious to get filter plant construction started as soon as possible, so it can be completed in the early spring.

I understand that the Board of Visitors of the University will meet on the 29th of November; therefore, urgently request that you lay this matter before them at this meeting and ask them to act on it, advising me at your earliest convenience of their decision. I am confident that you will realize that this matter is one of vital importance both to the University of Va. and to the City of Charlottesville, and sincerely trust that you will approve of the entire plan as outlined and will use your influence to get favorable action from the Board of Visitors.

Mr. Washabaugh, Mr. Williamson and myself went over this entire matter with Dr. Lambeth this morning, and it was his suggestion that I write this letter, which I feel confident will receive his endorsement.

If you or the members of the Board of Visitors would like to have either Mr. Williamson, Mr. Washabaugh or myself appear before you in person to go into this matter more fully we will be glad for you to call on us at any time.

In response to your invitation the undersigned members of the Architectural Commission met at the University to consider sites and recommend a site for the Gymnasium.

In our judgment the problem consists of providing a location which will allow of the necessary space for all the outdoor and indoor activities which are required by the present conception of physical education and also permit of future enlargement to accomodate a greatly increased number of students. The primary consideration of any site must therefore be that it shall afford level space immediately adjacent to the gymnasium building for ball grounds, tennis courts, hand ball courts, running tracks, gymnastic drills for classes of possibly 500 to 1000 men, without interfering with intercollegiate athletics. Another consideration is that the site shall be as near as possible the center of student life, both of class-room and dormitory, so that the gymnasium can be utilized at all hours with the least loss of time, for remedial physical class work, recreational exercises and sports. Since the building will be the largest and most imposing at the University, with the exception of the Rotunda, it is important that it be given a beautiful setting and its architectural qualities thereby enhanced.

With these considerations in mind and after a personal inspection of all the available sites, we recommend that the gymnasium be located west of the present ice pond on the plateau between it and the public road; that the gymnasium face east toward the crossing of Rugby and Ivy Roads; that the marshy ground to the south of the ice pond be filled in to provide level space for outdoor athletic activities; and that the entire level valley between Ivy Road and the Railroad track west of Carr's Hill be reserved and utilized as needed for outdoor athletics and be connected with Lambeth Field through the existing culvert under the railroad track.

We further recommend that the end of the valley south of the ice pond be utilized for future dormitory groups, where, on account of the western slope of the land, three and four story buildings can be erected without conflicting with the two story buildings of the Lawn group.

This comprehensive development, far more thant that of any other which has been considered, will take care of the future needs of the University for dormitories, athletic life, and student recreational activities. The dormitories, golf course, gymnasium skating, tennis courts and outdoor athletics will form a connected group with Lambeth Field that can never be crowded out by other needs of the University, and in this way the mistake which has been made by so many colleges of not providing adequate space for future development avoided.

While we have not allowed oursleves to be influenced too strongly by the desire for beauty of architectural setting, we think that a very important advantage of the site recommended is the great potential charm of the surroundings. The building would be seen from the upper level of the Ivy Road and from the west side of the old grounds, outlined against a background of mountains, with s small lake in front of its main facade, giving a charming reflection and an approach of unusual beauty.

We reached our choice after having rejected the other sites for the following reasons:

The Y. M. C. A. site - Much too small as it gives no adequate space for the outdoor activities of class work and games which equal in importance the indoor activities of a gymnasium, and is surrounded by grounds which cannot be controlled by the University; badly pocketed by the sloping east and west banks so that the treatment of any building will be handicapped.

Site between Kappa Sigma fraternity house and railroad - smaller than the above site and in addition slopes steeply to the west and so situated that any building on it cannot be seen from a distance.

Athletic Casino - no opportunity for outdoor athletics except on Lambeth Field, which is already utilized to the limit with its regular team activities. This site is also farther from the center of student life.

Site between Ivy Road and railroad west of Carr's Hill - it is proposed to incorporate this space into the scheme of athletic development. If the gymnasium were located on this site it would be hidden by Carr's Hill and be further away from student life.

At first glance it might appear that thesite suggested is remote and difficult of access, but this is far from the fact for the distance from the Rotunda to the proposed site is 1200 feet, from the crossing of Rugby and Ivy Roads, 900 feet, and from Monroe Hill, 1000 feet.

The Architectural Commission has considered and studied at length all phases of the gymnasium problem and now submits these plans which, in our unanimous professional judgment, are the most economical solution which meets all the obligatory requirements. We submit an approximate estimate of cost prepared by Mr. W. P. Thurston, the Richmond contractor, in the sum of $259,000.00. On this basis we recommend that the Board authorize the preparation of working drawings and specifications on which bids for the work may be secured.

According to general plans and specifications of the central heating system, prepared by myself and adopted by the engineering faculty, construction will go forward, as funds become available, in three sections. The first section, to be installed for $60,000 now available, comprises:

1\. Permanent mains from the power house to East Range. These mains are of sufficient capacity to serve all buildings west of the Hospital and Chemical laboratory with an allowance of 100% for future development.

2\. Complete heating equipment of East Range, East Lawn and the Rotunda.

3\. The necessary changes and additions to the new power plant to provide for the added load.

This section is now being installed by Messrs. Almirall & Company of New York, and, if weather conditions continue favorable, should be in operation by January first.

The second section comprises:

1\. Extension of permanent mains to Peabody Hall.

2\. Complete heating equipment of West Lawn, West Range, the commons, old medical hall and the Peabody group.

3\. Substantial enlargement of the new power house, erection of a permanent chimney, installation of a large boiler and additional water heaters.

The estimated cost of this section is $96,500.

The third section comprises:

1\. Abandonment of the old power plant and transfer of all apparatus fit for use to the newplant.

2\. Extension of permanent mains from East Range to Brook's museum, the nurses' home, Physical and Mechanical laboratories, Cabell Hall and the old infirmary.

3\. Complete heating equipment of the buildings just mentioned.

4\. Connection to the new system of the present Dawson's Row - Minor Hall lines.

The estimated cost of this section is $88,500.

Contract for the first section was let to Messrs. Almirall & Company, without competitive bids, for the following reasons:

1\. Their estimates and mine of the work which could be done for $60,000 were almost identical, tho made entirely independently.

2\. Preparation of detailed working drawings and exact specifications for competitive bidding would have delayed letting contract until January 1st., and postponed completion of the work until after the present heating season. The old plant is greatly overloaded and relief of the same by connecting East Lawn and the Rotunda to the new plant is imperative.

3\. Much old material in the present installation may be used in the new construction. The value of this material could not be estimated in advance, and ignorance of its value would have presented a serious handicap to competitive bidding and grave probability of disagreement at final settlement.

4\. Messrs Almirall & Company made us a most liberal proposition on a percentage basis. Competitive bids for all materials are submitted to us and orders are given only upon our authorization. As far as practicable materials are bought through local concerns. Local labor, as far as available, is employed. We get the benefit of all cash discounts. We pay all freight and express charges, thus saving the war tax. All bills for material and labor are checked and approved by us before payment. Their books are constantly open to our inspection, and I have now in my files copies of all vouchers approved for payment. Their charge for the work is 15% of the net cost.

5\. It was my conviction, shared unanimously by the engineering faculty, that by selecting contractors of national reputation with long experience and abundant resources for pushing the work, better work would be done and we would get more for our money than could be gotten by letting the contract to less skillful contractors. The conduct of the work thus far has justified this conviction, and I believe, with data now in my possession I can demonstrate that our course was wise.

I shall be glad to go into details more thoroughly or answer any questions that may occur to you and which are not covered by this statement.

We estimate this work will cost the additional sum of SEVEN THOUSAND AND FIFTY-THREE DOLLARS

$7053.

including full allowance for the ommissions mentioned.

This manner of performing and charging for this work to be in accordance with our proposal dated September 29, 1921 and similar in all respects to the work now being done and covered in specification except that the limit cost will be increased to SIXTY-SEVEN THOUSAND AND FIFTY-THREE DOLLARS

$67053.

ATTENTION Mr. Chas. Hancock

In accordance with your request we have estimated the cost of extending the 28″ × 44″ concrete conduit and 12″ mains from manhole # 4 at the East Range to Manhole # 5 at the East Lawn, the installation of a 5″ supply main from manhole # 5 to Prof. Lewis' House and the omission of the temporary 5″ supply and 5″ return from the East Range to the East Lawn.

The performance of this work at the present time will mean a saving of approximately $3200 in the ultimate cost of the work.

On October 10th, 1921 the Common Council of the City of Charlottesville appointed a committee composed of J. R. Morris, Chairman; W. M. Forrest; City Mgr., Walter Washabaugh and J. P. Greaver to make thorough investigation of the water situation in Charlottesville, and to get up plans and specifications for filter and aeration plant.

This Committee realizing the importance of a thorough investigation of the water question employed the firm of Williamson, Carroll & Saunders of Charlottesville to make necessary surveys, secure samples of water from Maury Creek, present reservoir and Moorman River, to have bacteriological and chemical analyses of same made in order to determine type of filter required to treat our present water supply, and also to take care of proposed Moorman River water supply whenever that project is carried out; and to get up plans and specifications for filter plant. As a further precaution we employed Mr. George W. Fuller of the firm of Fuller & McClintock of New York as consulting engineer, after careful investigation of his ability and reputation as an authority on water questions.

Upon the completion of preliminary surveys by our engineers, and after getting report from the chemists who made the analysis of the samples of water, Mr. Fuller came down and went over the entire situation with Williamson, Carroll, & Saunders, together with Mr. Richard Messer, Chief Engr., State Board of Health, and two members of our committee. After giving the entire situation careful study, Mr. Fuller set out his recommendations as to type, size and location of filter in a letter to my committee, copy of which I am herewith enclosing you.

Upon receipt of Mr. Fuller's letter, I had copy of same made and sent it to Mr. Messer, writing him at the same time, requesting that he go over Mr. Fuller's recommendations carefully and if he felt they would take care of the water situation in Charlottesville to write me to that effect, but if not to advise me what changes he would recommend. I am enclosing copy of my letter to Mr. Messer, also copy of his reply to same.

I did this so as to get approval of the State Board of Health, and I am sending you the enclosed correspondence in order that you may be entirely familiar with all proceedings up to this time.

You will note that Mr. Fuller recommends that the filter plant be located on Observatory Mountain, reasons for same being set forth in his letter of Nov. 11, 1921.

The type of plant recommended by Mr. Fuller will require 3 1/2 acres of land for its construction, and in addition will require rightof way for pipe line as shown on map which I am enclosing you.

We understand that the University is contemplating putting up a water tower with necessary pumping facilities in order to get increased pressure in the University area, and that $15,000.00 has been included in the next budget to cover cost of this improvement.

If the filter plant is built as outlined above, it will make unnecessary your proposed water improvement, as it will give you an adequate supply of pure water by gravity with ample pressure at the highest point on the University grounds, thereby doing away with your proposed pumping plant, which at the very best would be an expensive proposition, and would call for continual outlay for operation and maintenance. Therefore in view of the situation as outline in this letter, we respectfully request that the city of Charlottesville be given the necessary lan, right—of-way for pipe line and roadways for construction and maintenance of this plant, such privilege to be covered by long term lease with privilege of renewal, and in addition that the $15,000.00 mentioned above be applied to the cost of construction of filter plant.

In order to prevent repetition of the water situation which existed in charlottesville during the past summer, the city bodies are very anxious to get filter plant construction started as soon as possible, so it can be completed in the early spring.

I understand that the Board of Visitors of the University will meet on the 29th of November; therefore, urgently request that you lay this matter before them at this meeting and ask them to act on it, advising me at your earliest convenience of their decision. I am confident that you will realize that this matter is one of vital importance both to the University of Va. and to the City of Charlottesville, and sincerely trust that you will approve of the entire plan as outlined and will use your influence to get favorable action from the Board of Visitors.

Mr. Washabaugh, Mr. Williamson and myself went over this entire matter with Dr. Lambeth this morning, and it was his suggestion that I write this letter, which I feel confident will receive his endorsement.

If you or the members of the Board of Visitors would like to have either Mr. Williamson, Mr. Washabaugh or myself appear before you in person to go into this matter more fully we will be glad for you to call on us at any time.