 TEI to HTML

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date with the following members present: the Rector, John Stewart Bryan, and Visitors W. R. Duke, Goodrich Hatton, Walter T. Oliver, Alex. F. Robertson, Frederic W. Scott, and President Alderman.

The minutes of the meeting of November 10th, having been copied and sent to each member, were approved.

The President announced the following bequest and gifts:

A bequest of $20,000 by Thomas Jefferson Coolidge, of Boston.

A gift from Dr. George Ross of Richmond, 12,000 shares of Ouray Consolidated Mining Company stock.

A gift from the American Association for Advancement of Science of $200 to Cobb Chemical Laboratory for research work.

A gift of a picture of Dr. Wm. Holmes MacGuffey from the MacGuffey Society of Columbus, Ohio.

A gift from William A. Clark, Jr., enlargement of the moon photographed at Mt. Wilson Observatory; specimen of gold quartz; and "The Posthumous Papers of the Pickwick Club".

A gift from Mrs. Bayard Stockton, picture of a scene in the Artic Region by Elisha Kent Kane, her uncle.

A gift from John Armstrong Chaloner, a picture -supposed Rubens', for Art Department.

A gift from Mrs. Kate Cabell Cox, "The Old Silver of American Churches" by E. Alfred Jones, of England.

The President was requested to send, on behalf of the Board, to each of the above donors appropriate resolution expressing its appreciation for the respective gifts.

The President brought to the attention of the Board a conditional gift by Col. Eugene C. Massie of Richmond, of 17 1-4 acres of his estate known as "Copeley", adjoining the athletic field, for the purpose of constructing a lake and also a site for the new gymnasium adjoining the proposed lake, of such size and location as may be deemed suitable and convenient, upon the condition that the University erect and maintain a dam for the impounding of the waters for the said lake and do certain grading. The matter was carefully considered and the following resolution unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors, That our thanks be extended to Hon. Eugene C. Massie for his liberal offer of a certain parcel of his land upon certain conditions.

RESOLVED FURTHER, That we regret, in view of the conditions imposed, we are under the necessity of declining the generous offer of Col. Massie.

The President presented a report by Prof. Chas. Hancock in connection with the proposed heating plant for the University, copies of which had been mailed to members of the Board. After some discussion of the matter, on motion of Mr. Oliver, the thanks of the Board were extended to Prof. Hancock for his able and exhaustive report on the heating question. The matter was then re-committed to the Heating Committee with the request that they report as speedily as possible for a definite plan.

The following resolution was received from Miss Rachel E. Gregg, President of the Virginia Branch of the National Council of Administrative and Executive Women in Education, adopted by the said council at a meeting on November 27, 1920, with the request that it be considered by the Board and that they take some steps toward granting broader recognition to women, but no action was taken:

WHEREAS the State Council of Administrative and Executive Women in Education in annual convention assembled note with deep regret that women are not admitted to the professional schools of the University of Virginia on an equal basis with men, and

WHEREAS the Council deems that one of the greatest services which the University can render to the State is the training of women for leadership, therefore be it

RESOLVED, That the State Council of Administrative and Executive Women in Education request that the University of Virginia admit women to its professional schools on an equal basis with men.

The following resolution with respect to the admission of women to the Law School on the same terms as men, beginning with the session of 1921-22, adopted at a meeting of the law faculty on January 29th, was presented and defeated by the following vote: ayes, Duke and Robertson; nos, Bryan, Hatton, Oliver and Scott:

RESOLVED, That the law faculty recommends to the Rector and Visitors of the University that women be admitted to the Law School on the same terms as men, beginning with the session 1921-22.

The following resolution of the law faculty raising the standard for admission to the Law School was adopted by a vote of five to one, Mr. Oliver voting "no":

RESOLVED, That as a condition for admission to the Law School as a regular student, to become operative for the session 1922-23, it shall be required:

1\. That the candidate shall have attained the age of nineteen years of age, counting to the nearest birthday.

2\. That the candidate shall have completed successfully at least two years of work in a recognized institution of collegiate rank.

Mr. Duke presented the following resolution with respect to the admission of women to the University, which was defeated by a vote of five to one, Mr. Duke voting "aye":

RESOLVED, That beginning with the session 1921-22 the University of Virginia shall be open to women on the same terms as men.

Upon the recommendation of the faculty of the Graduate Department, and the approval of the President, the following resolution amending the regulations admitting women to the Department of Graduate Studies, was adopted, Mr. Hatton voting "no":

RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That Section 2 of the resolution for admission of women to the University of Virginia, adopted at a meeting of the Board February 19, 1920 and spread upon page 167 of the minute book, be amended and readopted as follows:

Section 2. Admission to the Department of Graduate Studies.- To be admitted to the Department of Graduate Studies women must hold a baccalaureate degree from a standard college or a standard State normal school offering a four year course. Graduates of normal schools who become applicants for higher degrees, however, may be required to take such under-graduate work as may be prescribed by the Committee on Rules and Courses of the Graduate Department.

The President presented to the meeting a statement from Prof. J. L. Newcomb, Chairman of the Centennial Celebration Committee, in which it was estimated that the cost of the centennial celebration would be about $35,000. After some discussion of the probable cost of financing both the endowment movement and the centennial celebration, it was decided to have Prof. Newcomb make up and mail to each member an outline of the program, together with the probable cost of each future thereof.

Upon the recommendation of Dr. Theodore Hough, chairman of the Hospital Board, and appropriation of $110 was made to care for the increase in salaries of two members of the hospital staff for the remainder of the fiscal year.

The following letter was received from the American Security and Trust Company of Washington, D. C., trustee under the will of the late Rev. Randolph H. McKim:

We enclose you herewith a copy of the will of the late Reverend Randolph H. McKim, this company having been appointed executor of the decessed's estate by the Probate Court of the District of Columbia.

You will note upon examination of the will that the University is the ultimate beneficiary of a certain portion of the estate, the total appraised vaoue of the estate which has come into our hands up to this time being of the value of about $170,000.

Dr. McKim at the time of his death was insured in the Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York at $6,000, the proceeds of the policy being payable to his children. A number of years ago Dr. McKim's son died intestate and leaving no issue. Under the laws of the District one-third of the proceeds of this policy, namely $1992.68, becomes a part of Dr. McKim's estate. Mrs. McKim called at this office a few days ago and asked us if there was any way in which this money could be distributed to the two daughters, as she states that it was Dr. McKim's intention that the two daughters were to receive the total proceeds of the policy, he not having any idea that on account of his son's death any portion of the policy would fall into his (Dr. McKim's) estate. We informed Mrs. McKim that if the ultimate beneficiaries of the estate, namely, your institution and the Theological Seminary, would consent to our paying this money over to the daughters, we would raise no objection to its not being considered a part of the estate.

We will greatly appreciate your giving this matter your early attention and if, after going into the matter, it is found agreeable that this fund be turned over to the daughters, notifying us to this effect by a letter under the signature of the proper officer authorized to give such consent for the University.

The foregoing matter was disposed of in the following resolution offered by Mr. Hatton, and unanimously adopted:

In the matter of the communication of the American Security and Trust Company, trustee under the will of the late Dr. Randolph H. McKim under date of May 28, 1920, and requesting the release by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia of its right to certain funds.

RESOLVED, That in the opinion of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, they have no right to make such release however much they may desire so to do.

The President advised the Board that on the night of December 24th a fire of unknown origin partially destroyed the Physiological Laboratory, located at the northern end of West Range, together with a part of its contents. The damage to the building has been adjusted at $4,800, being fully covered by insurance, and the damage to the contents was adjusted at $4,700 being covered by $4,000 of insurance. The building is being restored.

The question of determining upon a policy for the return of fees to students upon leaving the University during the session was referred to the President, Dean and Bursar, to report at a subsequent meeting.

Dr. Lindsay Rogers, Associate Professor of Political Science, absent on leave for the present session, tendered his resignation, to take effect September 15, 1921, which was accepted.

A letter was presented from Mr. McLane Tilton requesting an extension of an option on abuilding site for a fraternity house for the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity. The Board declined to extend the option, but authorized the secretary to advise Mr. Tilton that if the site was unoccupied when the fraternity was ready to begin building operations, the Board would be glad to consider his application.

With respect to the application of the Virginia Omicron Chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon for a building site on which to erect a fraternity house, it was the opinion of the Board that a definite proposition should be presented when the fraternity was ready to begin building operations.

An application from the Psi Chapter of the Theta Chi Fraternity for a lot on the grounds of the University and a loan of not less thant $18,000, with which to erect a fraternity house, was presented. The Secretary was directed to advise the said fraternity that the Board was not in position to grant the request.

The following resolution was received from the Virginia League of Women Voters:

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia has been unique among State Educational institutions of the United States in establishing a separate department of Citizenship Education under its Bureau of Extension, be it

RESOLVED, That we, the District Directors of the Virginia League of Women Voters desire to thank the University for the opportunities thus offered to the people of the State, and be it further

RESOLVED, That we urgently request that courses and single lectures offered by the Citizenship Department be listed and explained in all circulars and Bulletins announcing any Extension Courses and lectures, (except those purely local in character where such courses are not given), and that the full backing of the Department be given in the organization of the classes in all towns, and be it further

RESOLVED, That copies of this resolution be sent to Dr. E. A. Alderman, Professor Charles G. Maphis, and to each member of the Extension Committee.

The application of H. S, King, representing the Coleman estate, to lease a building site between the post-office and the C. & O. Railroad fronting on Main Street, was received, and the Secretary was requested to ascertain from Mr. King the length of time for which he desired the lease, and the annual rental he would be willing to pay.

The following communication was received from the Assistant State Accountant with respect to the examination of the accounts of the Bursar's Office:

I have examined the accounts of the University of Virginia, as carried in the Bursar's office, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1920, and found them to be correct.

The meeting then adjourned.

We enclose you herewith a copy of the will of the late Reverend Randolph H. McKim, this company having been appointed executor of the decessed's estate by the Probate Court of the District of Columbia.

You will note upon examination of the will that the University is the ultimate beneficiary of a certain portion of the estate, the total appraised vaoue of the estate which has come into our hands up to this time being of the value of about $170,000.

Dr. McKim at the time of his death was insured in the Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York at $6,000, the proceeds of the policy being payable to his children. A number of years ago Dr. McKim's son died intestate and leaving no issue. Under the laws of the District one-third of the proceeds of this policy, namely $1992.68, becomes a part of Dr. McKim's estate. Mrs. McKim called at this office a few days ago and asked us if there was any way in which this money could be distributed to the two daughters, as she states that it was Dr. McKim's intention that the two daughters were to receive the total proceeds of the policy, he not having any idea that on account of his son's death any portion of the policy would fall into his (Dr. McKim's) estate. We informed Mrs. McKim that if the ultimate beneficiaries of the estate, namely, your institution and the Theological Seminary, would consent to our paying this money over to the daughters, we would raise no objection to its not being considered a part of the estate.

We will greatly appreciate your giving this matter your early attention and if, after going into the matter, it is found agreeable that this fund be turned over to the daughters, notifying us to this effect by a letter under the signature of the proper officer authorized to give such consent for the University.

I have examined the accounts of the University of Virginia, as carried in the Bursar's office, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1920, and found them to be correct.

We enclose you herewith a copy of the will of the late Reverend Randolph H. McKim, this company having been appointed executor of the decessed's estate by the Probate Court of the District of Columbia.

You will note upon examination of the will that the University is the ultimate beneficiary of a certain portion of the estate, the total appraised vaoue of the estate which has come into our hands up to this time being of the value of about $170,000.

Dr. McKim at the time of his death was insured in the Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York at $6,000, the proceeds of the policy being payable to his children. A number of years ago Dr. McKim's son died intestate and leaving no issue. Under the laws of the District one-third of the proceeds of this policy, namely $1992.68, becomes a part of Dr. McKim's estate. Mrs. McKim called at this office a few days ago and asked us if there was any way in which this money could be distributed to the two daughters, as she states that it was Dr. McKim's intention that the two daughters were to receive the total proceeds of the policy, he not having any idea that on account of his son's death any portion of the policy would fall into his (Dr. McKim's) estate. We informed Mrs. McKim that if the ultimate beneficiaries of the estate, namely, your institution and the Theological Seminary, would consent to our paying this money over to the daughters, we would raise no objection to its not being considered a part of the estate.

We will greatly appreciate your giving this matter your early attention and if, after going into the matter, it is found agreeable that this fund be turned over to the daughters, notifying us to this effect by a letter under the signature of the proper officer authorized to give such consent for the University.

I have examined the accounts of the University of Virginia, as carried in the Bursar's office, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1920, and found them to be correct.