 TEI to HTML

Completing the Central Heating System

$150,000

New Engineering Building

$250,000

conditioned by the University's raising a like sum.

A home for nurses of the Hospital

$150,000

Additional expense of operating the University Hospital, caring for the Grounds and Buildings, and proposed salary increases, a total of

$150,000

Sundry other items, approx.

$ 75,000

Making a grand total of approx.

$775,000

A special meeting of the Board was held in Richmond, Virginia, on this date for the purpose of presenting to his Excellency, Governor Harry F. Byrd, the action of the meeting of the Board on February 1st, at which time a resolution was adopted increasing the salary scale of the members of the faculty of the University of Virginia, subject to the approval of the Governor.

Mr. Lewis C. Williams had very graciously invited the Governor, Mr. Bradford, and the members of the Board to dine with him at his residence, after which the business of the evening was taken up.

There were present His Excellency, Governor Harry Flood Byrd, Mr. J. H. Bradford, Director of the State Budget, The Rector, Mr. C. Harding Walker, and Visitors Buchanan, Carson, Hart, Hull, McIntire, Munford, Rinehart, Scott, and Williams, President Alderman, and Mr. J. L. Newcomb, Assistant to the President.

The Rector presided and presented to the Governor the purpose of the meeting, reciting the action taken at the meeting of the Board on February 1st upon the report of the Special Committee of the Board, and called on Mr. Hull, the chairman of the Special Committee to make the report on behalf of the Board. Mr. Hull read the report of his committee, which was presented to the meeting of the Board February 1st, and spoke to the question at some length. Several of the other members of the Board also spoke to the question, as did also President Alderman. The Governor then entered into a free discussion in the matter, reserving his opinion, stating that he would communicate to the President his conclusion in a short while.

At the Governor's request President Alderman then outlined somewhat what the Board of Visitors would request of the state in its biennial budget for 1930-32. Among the items enumerated were:

The meeting then adjourned.