 TEI to HTML

From Mrs. Dora H. Goodwyn, for the purpose of founding a fellowship in the Law Department, to be known as the WILLIAM SAMUEL GOODWYN FELLOWSHIP

$10,000

From Mr. Henry Waldo Greenough, late of Albemarle County, to be used for the purpose of obtaining equipment for, or objects of Italian Art, to be placed in the Italian Room of the Romance Language Pavilion

500

From an anonymous donor, to be used for the purchase of books on American History

500

A special meeting of the Board was held on this date at 8 o'clock P. M., with the Rector, Fred W. Scott, and Visitors Buchanan, Carson, Hall, Munford, Rinehart, Shackelford, Walker and Williams, and Acting President Newcomb, present.

The Acting President reported a total registration in all departments to date of 2534, an increase of 89 over the same date last session.

The following gifts were reported

From Dr. Don Preston Peters and Mr. James W. S. Peters, a substantial gift of books from the library of Mr. William E. Peters, father of these gentlemen

From Rev. Henry Bedinger, of San Diego, a paper weight, made of material from "Old Ironsides" and a medal of Washington, issued by the Society of the Cincinnati in 1923.

From a miscellaneous list of donors, numerous books for the Library.

Leave of absence was granted to Prof. T. C. Johnson in the following resolution, adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That Professor Thomas Cary Johnson, Associate Professor of History, be and is hereby granted leave of absence for the session 1932-33, for a year of uninterrupted study of the scientific interests of the Old South, this leave to be conditional upon the securing of a substitute acceptable to the Acting President of the University and to the Department of History.

The resignation of Dr. Geo. B. Young, Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine, was accepted in the following resolution, adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That the resignation of Dr. George Bright Young, as Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine, be accepted with regret. Dr. Young has carried forward his work here with devotion and skill and the Rector and Visitors wish for him the pleasure and freedom that comes of duty faithfully performed.

Ratification of the appointment of Dr. E. L. McQuade, as Associate Professor of Public Health, made during the summer, was had in the following resolution, adopted:

RESOLVED, that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia approve the action of the Acting President, taken during the Summer Quarter, in making the following appointment.

Dr. E. L. McQuade, as Associate Professor of Public Health in the University of Virginia, at a salary of $1500, incumbency beginning September 15, 1931.

The following resolution with respect to the Samuel Watts Scholarship was adopted:

WHEREAS, William J. Howland, Oliver P. Howland, and William L. Zimmer, Jr., as representative of the Zimmer interests, who gave the money for the establishment of the Samuel Watts Scholarship in the University of Virginia, have requested a change in the designation of the beneficiaries of this Scholarship, as well as a change in the limitations placed on this Scholarship, now therefore

BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That the beneficiaries of this Scholarship be named by William L. Zimmer, Jr., of Petersburg, and that the Scholarship be made applicable to any department of the University.

Increase in salary of Miss Clara Ponton was granted in the following resolution, adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That they approve an increase in salary for Miss Clara Ponton, Technician in the Department of Roentgenology, from $100 to $125 per month, and direct that the Governor be requested to authorize this increase, effecting a net saving in the department of $40 per month by the dropping of one employee.

Professor E. S. Campbell recommended for reappointment to the Art Commission of the State of Virginia in the following resolution, adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That His Excellency the Governor of the Commonwealth be and is hereby requested to reappoint Mr. Edmund S. Campbell, Professor of Art and Architecture in the University of Virginia, as a member of the Art Commission of the State of Virginia.

Mr. Rinehart, Chairman of the Building Committee, submitted a report of construction of certain buildings, as follows, received and ordered spread:

The Building Committee wishes to report as follows:

The Nurses' Home was completed about three weeks ago at a cost of $205,966.67. The Furniture for the building amounted to $11,539.54, making a total cost of $217,536.21.

The Chemical Building, complete, cost $80,704.10. This building is completed, with the exception of the furniture. There is provided $24,000.00 for equipment and furniture, making a total of $105,000.00, which is the appropriation.

The Law Building is about two-thirds completed. So far the expenditures have been $165,042.32. In addition to this, the residence built for Professor Fickenscher, cost $13,198.41. This residence was authorized and paid for by Mr. Clarke. Appropriation for the residence $15,000.00.

A report was submitted by W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, upon the subject of the request made by the Executors and Trustees under the will of Thomas F. Ryan that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia qualify as Trustee under the will of Mr. Ryan for the purpose of administering the principal of the trust fund set up under paragraph X of ARTICLE FIRST of Mr. Ryan's will, by which clause of said will the Thomas F. Ryan Scholarships at the University are perpetuated.

The report was considered thoroughly, ordered spread upon the minutes of this meeting, and after a full discussion of the situation the following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED, That this matter be, and is hereby, referred back to the Attorney for the University, with instructions to consult with Mr. Keiffer further and ascertain and report to this Board whether it will be possible to have this fund turned over to the University free from the jurisdiction of the Surrogate's Court of New York.

Under date of October 28th, 1929, Messrs. Kieffer & Woodward, Attorneys of 31 Nassau Street, New York City, acting for the Estate of Thomas F. Ryan, deceased, addressed a letter to Mr. Newcomb, in which these gentlemen stated that since the provision of paragraph X of ARTICLE FIRST of Mr. Ryan's will, giving a net income of $3000.00 per year for the Thomas F. Ryan Scholarships was educational in its nature, and therefore perpetual, the Trustees under Mr. Ryan's will, namely— Messrs. William C. Potter and Clendennin J. Ryan, were anxious to be relieved of the duties of administering the capital fund from which this income is to be produced, and they have asked that Mr. Newcomb would consider the advisability of having The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia substituted as Trustee of said fund in the place and stead of the Trustees named in said will.

On or about the first of November, 1929, Mr. Newcomb referred Messrs. Kieffer and Woodward's letter to me for reply. I made reply under date of November 1st, 1929, and from that date down to a few months ago several letters have been exchanged on the subject, but no definite plan of action was agreed on.

On Friday, November 6th, 1931, a conference was held in the President's Office at the University of Virginia, at the request of Mr. Kieffer. Mr. Newcomb, Acting President, was present, together with Mr. Kieffer and Mr. Caskie, of Lynchburg, his associate, representing the Ryan Estate, and W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University. Mr. Kieffer stated that Mr. Ryan's Executors are very anxious to have the University qualify as Trustee with reference to the fund to be set apart for the maintenance of the Ryan Scholarships at the University. He stated that it would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to obtain a Trust Company in the City of New York to consent to act, in view of the fact that the trust is perpetual and the amount involved is not large. The additional expense which the qualification of a Trust Company would entail in the way of commissions both on the principal of the fund and on the annual income is also a consideration.

Mr. Kieffer and Mr. Caskie requested that the whole situation be presented at the next meeting of The Rector and Visitors and expressed the earnest desire that the University agree to accept the Trusteeship, and take charge of the principal of the fund. Mr. Newcomb and Mr. Perkins agreed that the matter should be presented to The Rector and Visitors, and with this explanation I beg leave to submit the following statement.

Paragraph X of ARTICLE FIRST of the Will of Thomas F. Ryan reads as follows.

"X. I give and bequeath to my Trustees a fund in trust sufficient to produce a net income of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) per year for the benefit of and for the purpose of continuing what are now known as the Thomas F. Ryan Scholarships at the University of Virginia."

ARTICLE SEVENTEENTH of said Will reads, in part, as follows:

"I hereby nominate and appoint my friend, William C. Potter, and my son, Clendennin J. Ryan, to be the Executors of this my Last Will, and of any codicil or codicils hereto. I hereby nominate and appoint my friend William C. Potter, and my son, Clendennin J. to be the Trustees of this my will and of any codicil or codicils thereto. I authorize, empower and direct my said two personal trustees, on the creation of the trusts herein provided for, to nominate and appoint a Trust Company doing business in the City of New York or a Bank doing business in the City of New York, authorized to act in the capacity of Trustee or fiduciary to the same extent as Trust Companies incorporated under the laws of this State to serve as co-trustee with them or the survivor of them under this my will. 111............It is my desire and intention that upon the creation of the trusts herein provided for there shall always be at least one individual and a Trust Company or Bank of good standing doing business in the City of New York to act as Trustees under this my will."

ARTICLE EIGHTEENTH contains the following provision:

"In case of the death, resignation or inability of either of my Executors or personal Trustees to act hereunder, I authorize and empower the survivor to appoint a successor co-Executor or a successor co-Trustee.

"Save and except as herein otherwise expressly provided, any person so appointed under the terms of this Article shall, without giving any security, have and exercise all the rights and powers of an Executor and Trustee herein conferred upon the Executors and Trustees herein named by me, as fully as if he had been originally designated and appointed as co-Executor or co-Trustee, including all discretionary powers and the power to appoint a successor to an Executor or Trustee whose position shall for any reason become vacant.

"Notwithstanding the provision that there shall always be at least one individual and a Trust Company or Bank of good standing doing business in the City of New York to act as Trustees under this, my Will, if at any time my personal Trustees or the survivor of them and the Trust Company acting as such Trustee for the time being shall be unanimously of opinion that it is better for the interests of my estate that a Trust Company or Bank in the City of New York, authorized by law to execute trusts, shall be appointed sole Trustee under this my Will, either of all or of any one or more of the separate trusts herein established, then and in that event I authorize my said Trustees, by a proper instrument in writing executed by all of them, to appoint such Trust Company or Bank as they shall select to be the sole Trustee of any one or more of the trusts under this my Will, and except as to the discretion herein expressly conferred upon my personal Trustees, I hereby give and grant unto such Trust Company or Bank all the rights, powers and authority in this my Will given to or conferred upon the Trustees herein named."

ARTICLE TWELFTH of the will states very explicitly that every gift contained in the Will is conditioned upon the fact that the beneficiaries shall not directly or indirectly prosecute any suit or any legal proceeding having for its object the defeat in whole or in part of any provision of the will, or of any testamentary intention therein declared, the provision being made that should attempt be made all gifts to any beneficiary making such attempt shall be null and void, and the amount bequeathed to such beneficiary shall immediately pass into the residuum of the estate.

The residuum of the estate is disposed of by ARTICLE FOURTH of the will under which provision is made for the Testator's children, grandchildren and widow. This clause includes not only living grandchildren, but also any grandchildren not in being at the time of the death of the Testator.

Mr. Kieffer, in his capacity of Attorney for the Ryan Estate, is, of course, intimately familiar with all of its details. He tells us that he prepared Mr. Ryan's will himself, and has attended to the probate thereof. Of course, in connection with this probate, which was undertaken before the Surrogate's Court for the City of New York, all parties in interest under said will have been cited to appear and are now before the Court.

Mr. Kieffer states that in his opinion, upon a proper presentation of the existing situation, the New York Surrogate will allow the University to qualify as Trustee under the will.

Mr. Kieffer is further of opinion that there will be no difficulty in having all of the securities belonging to the fund actually delivered to the University and transferred by it to Virginia. He further believes that as a practical matter no accounting will be required of the University as Trustee. We do not feel that this is a matter of special importance as the University will, of course, be ready and willing to make an accounting if such accounting should be desired at any time.

The question for your consideration is of a dual nature

First. Is the University willing to accept the responsibility of administering this fund, and is it under any obligation to do so? One view of the situation is that under Mr. Ryan's will his Trustees are directed to administer this fund and to pay the University $3000.00 a year. You may very properly feel that the University is interested only in receiving that amount, and that it should not undertake the responsibility of agreeing to the amount at which fund may be capitalized, or of administering the principal of the fund. On the other hand, the consideration should not be overlooked that if the University has the principal fund in its hands it will be assured of the proper administration of that fund, and will be relieved of all necessity of dealing with non-resident Trustees.

Second. Entirely aside from all question of the advisability of accepting the Trusteeship comes the consideration of what may be the legal effect of undertaking the substitution in question. The provisions of Mr. Ryan's will, set out at length above, show clearly that it was his intention that the trusts created by his will should be administered by his personal Trustees, or by at least one individual and a Trust Company. The last paragraph of ARTICLE EIGHTEENTH contains a provision, however, that if it becomes proper a Trust Company may be appointed as sole Trustee. Throughout all of the very elaborate provisions with reference to the appointment and substitution of Trustees, the intention clearly appears that a Trust Company or Bank in the City of New York shall be appointed whenever the personal Trustees cannot act.

The provisions of ARTICLE TWELFTH above referred to are most explicit in annulling any gift, the beneficiary of which attempts in any way to defeat any testamentary intention expressed in the will. We think these phases of the problem should be most carefully considered, and that any consent on the part of The Rector and Visitors to act as substituted Trustee should be conditioned upon—

1st. Having this whole situation submitted to a firm of lawyers in the City of New York, to be selected by this Board,

2nd. Upon an opinion being given by these lawyers, stating that in their opinion such substitution of Trustees will not in any way be contrary to any intention expressed by Mr. Ryan in his will, and

3rd. That the Surrogate's Court for the City of New York in the proceeding now pending before it, and with the parties now before it, has full and complete jurisdiction to enter the order substituting the University in the place of the Trustees named in the will, and to authorize the proper transfer of the funds from the State of New York to the State of Virginia

We think that the cost of this opinion and all other costs connected with this matter should be borne by the Ryan Estate.

We also believe that the fund which may be set apart to produce the annual payment of $3000.00 should be large enough to insure an annual income of at least that amount under the most unfavorable conditions.

A letter from Mr. deCourey W. Thom, with reference to the entrance requirements for the University, was read and ordered filed. There was also read a letter written to Mr. Thom by Dean Page in reply to a letter on the same subject, and the reply of Dean Page's was adopted by the Board as expressing its views in the matter.

The Treasurer of the General Athletic Association presented the financial report of the Association for its fiscal year ended August 31, 1931, which was read, received and ordered filed.

Mr. Scott presented a letter received by him from McLane Tilton and T. B. McAdams, officers of the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity, located here, with respect to a loan of $25000 on the Chapter House of said fraternity. It was agreed that a loan of 60% of the appraised value of the property, not to exceed $20,000.00, @ 6%, payable $1000 per year, be made after appraisal of the property by Mr. Rinehart and Mr. Newcomb and their approval of the amount to be loaned thereon.

The meeting then adjourned to meet at the residence of Mr. Scott, in Richmond, Monday evening-December 21, 1931, at 8 P. M.

The Building Committee wishes to report as follows:

The Nurses' Home was completed about three weeks ago at a cost of $205,966.67. The Furniture for the building amounted to $11,539.54, making a total cost of $217,536.21.

The Chemical Building, complete, cost $80,704.10. This building is completed, with the exception of the furniture. There is provided $24,000.00 for equipment and furniture, making a total of $105,000.00, which is the appropriation.

The Law Building is about two-thirds completed. So far the expenditures have been $165,042.32. In addition to this, the residence built for Professor Fickenscher, cost $13,198.41. This residence was authorized and paid for by Mr. Clarke. Appropriation for the residence $15,000.00.

Under date of October 28th, 1929, Messrs. Kieffer & Woodward, Attorneys of 31 Nassau Street, New York City, acting for the Estate of Thomas F. Ryan, deceased, addressed a letter to Mr. Newcomb, in which these gentlemen stated that since the provision of paragraph X of ARTICLE FIRST of Mr. Ryan's will, giving a net income of $3000.00 per year for the Thomas F. Ryan Scholarships was educational in its nature, and therefore perpetual, the Trustees under Mr. Ryan's will, namely— Messrs. William C. Potter and Clendennin J. Ryan, were anxious to be relieved of the duties of administering the capital fund from which this income is to be produced, and they have asked that Mr. Newcomb would consider the advisability of having The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia substituted as Trustee of said fund in the place and stead of the Trustees named in said will.

On or about the first of November, 1929, Mr. Newcomb referred Messrs. Kieffer and Woodward's letter to me for reply. I made reply under date of November 1st, 1929, and from that date down to a few months ago several letters have been exchanged on the subject, but no definite plan of action was agreed on.

On Friday, November 6th, 1931, a conference was held in the President's Office at the University of Virginia, at the request of Mr. Kieffer. Mr. Newcomb, Acting President, was present, together with Mr. Kieffer and Mr. Caskie, of Lynchburg, his associate, representing the Ryan Estate, and W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University. Mr. Kieffer stated that Mr. Ryan's Executors are very anxious to have the University qualify as Trustee with reference to the fund to be set apart for the maintenance of the Ryan Scholarships at the University. He stated that it would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to obtain a Trust Company in the City of New York to consent to act, in view of the fact that the trust is perpetual and the amount involved is not large. The additional expense which the qualification of a Trust Company would entail in the way of commissions both on the principal of the fund and on the annual income is also a consideration.

Mr. Kieffer and Mr. Caskie requested that the whole situation be presented at the next meeting of The Rector and Visitors and expressed the earnest desire that the University agree to accept the Trusteeship, and take charge of the principal of the fund. Mr. Newcomb and Mr. Perkins agreed that the matter should be presented to The Rector and Visitors, and with this explanation I beg leave to submit the following statement.

Paragraph X of ARTICLE FIRST of the Will of Thomas F. Ryan reads as follows.

"X. I give and bequeath to my Trustees a fund in trust sufficient to produce a net income of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) per year for the benefit of and for the purpose of continuing what are now known as the Thomas F. Ryan Scholarships at the University of Virginia."

ARTICLE SEVENTEENTH of said Will reads, in part, as follows:

"I hereby nominate and appoint my friend, William C. Potter, and my son, Clendennin J. Ryan, to be the Executors of this my Last Will, and of any codicil or codicils hereto. I hereby nominate and appoint my friend William C. Potter, and my son, Clendennin J. to be the Trustees of this my will and of any codicil or codicils thereto. I authorize, empower and direct my said two personal trustees, on the creation of the trusts herein provided for, to nominate and appoint a Trust Company doing business in the City of New York or a Bank doing business in the City of New York, authorized to act in the capacity of Trustee or fiduciary to the same extent as Trust Companies incorporated under the laws of this State to serve as co-trustee with them or the survivor of them under this my will. 111............It is my desire and intention that upon the creation of the trusts herein provided for there shall always be at least one individual and a Trust Company or Bank of good standing doing business in the City of New York to act as Trustees under this my will."

ARTICLE EIGHTEENTH contains the following provision:

"In case of the death, resignation or inability of either of my Executors or personal Trustees to act hereunder, I authorize and empower the survivor to appoint a successor co-Executor or a successor co-Trustee.

"Save and except as herein otherwise expressly provided, any person so appointed under the terms of this Article shall, without giving any security, have and exercise all the rights and powers of an Executor and Trustee herein conferred upon the Executors and Trustees herein named by me, as fully as if he had been originally designated and appointed as co-Executor or co-Trustee, including all discretionary powers and the power to appoint a successor to an Executor or Trustee whose position shall for any reason become vacant.

"Notwithstanding the provision that there shall always be at least one individual and a Trust Company or Bank of good standing doing business in the City of New York to act as Trustees under this, my Will, if at any time my personal Trustees or the survivor of them and the Trust Company acting as such Trustee for the time being shall be unanimously of opinion that it is better for the interests of my estate that a Trust Company or Bank in the City of New York, authorized by law to execute trusts, shall be appointed sole Trustee under this my Will, either of all or of any one or more of the separate trusts herein established, then and in that event I authorize my said Trustees, by a proper instrument in writing executed by all of them, to appoint such Trust Company or Bank as they shall select to be the sole Trustee of any one or more of the trusts under this my Will, and except as to the discretion herein expressly conferred upon my personal Trustees, I hereby give and grant unto such Trust Company or Bank all the rights, powers and authority in this my Will given to or conferred upon the Trustees herein named."

ARTICLE TWELFTH of the will states very explicitly that every gift contained in the Will is conditioned upon the fact that the beneficiaries shall not directly or indirectly prosecute any suit or any legal proceeding having for its object the defeat in whole or in part of any provision of the will, or of any testamentary intention therein declared, the provision being made that should attempt be made all gifts to any beneficiary making such attempt shall be null and void, and the amount bequeathed to such beneficiary shall immediately pass into the residuum of the estate.

The residuum of the estate is disposed of by ARTICLE FOURTH of the will under which provision is made for the Testator's children, grandchildren and widow. This clause includes not only living grandchildren, but also any grandchildren not in being at the time of the death of the Testator.

Mr. Kieffer, in his capacity of Attorney for the Ryan Estate, is, of course, intimately familiar with all of its details. He tells us that he prepared Mr. Ryan's will himself, and has attended to the probate thereof. Of course, in connection with this probate, which was undertaken before the Surrogate's Court for the City of New York, all parties in interest under said will have been cited to appear and are now before the Court.

Mr. Kieffer states that in his opinion, upon a proper presentation of the existing situation, the New York Surrogate will allow the University to qualify as Trustee under the will.

Mr. Kieffer is further of opinion that there will be no difficulty in having all of the securities belonging to the fund actually delivered to the University and transferred by it to Virginia. He further believes that as a practical matter no accounting will be required of the University as Trustee. We do not feel that this is a matter of special importance as the University will, of course, be ready and willing to make an accounting if such accounting should be desired at any time.

The question for your consideration is of a dual nature

First. Is the University willing to accept the responsibility of administering this fund, and is it under any obligation to do so? One view of the situation is that under Mr. Ryan's will his Trustees are directed to administer this fund and to pay the University $3000.00 a year. You may very properly feel that the University is interested only in receiving that amount, and that it should not undertake the responsibility of agreeing to the amount at which fund may be capitalized, or of administering the principal of the fund. On the other hand, the consideration should not be overlooked that if the University has the principal fund in its hands it will be assured of the proper administration of that fund, and will be relieved of all necessity of dealing with non-resident Trustees.

Second. Entirely aside from all question of the advisability of accepting the Trusteeship comes the consideration of what may be the legal effect of undertaking the substitution in question. The provisions of Mr. Ryan's will, set out at length above, show clearly that it was his intention that the trusts created by his will should be administered by his personal Trustees, or by at least one individual and a Trust Company. The last paragraph of ARTICLE EIGHTEENTH contains a provision, however, that if it becomes proper a Trust Company may be appointed as sole Trustee. Throughout all of the very elaborate provisions with reference to the appointment and substitution of Trustees, the intention clearly appears that a Trust Company or Bank in the City of New York shall be appointed whenever the personal Trustees cannot act.

The provisions of ARTICLE TWELFTH above referred to are most explicit in annulling any gift, the beneficiary of which attempts in any way to defeat any testamentary intention expressed in the will. We think these phases of the problem should be most carefully considered, and that any consent on the part of The Rector and Visitors to act as substituted Trustee should be conditioned upon—

1st. Having this whole situation submitted to a firm of lawyers in the City of New York, to be selected by this Board,

2nd. Upon an opinion being given by these lawyers, stating that in their opinion such substitution of Trustees will not in any way be contrary to any intention expressed by Mr. Ryan in his will, and

3rd. That the Surrogate's Court for the City of New York in the proceeding now pending before it, and with the parties now before it, has full and complete jurisdiction to enter the order substituting the University in the place of the Trustees named in the will, and to authorize the proper transfer of the funds from the State of New York to the State of Virginia

We think that the cost of this opinion and all other costs connected with this matter should be borne by the Ryan Estate.

We also believe that the fund which may be set apart to produce the annual payment of $3000.00 should be large enough to insure an annual income of at least that amount under the most unfavorable conditions.

The Building Committee wishes to report as follows:

The Nurses' Home was completed about three weeks ago at a cost of $205,966.67. The Furniture for the building amounted to $11,539.54, making a total cost of $217,536.21.

The Chemical Building, complete, cost $80,704.10. This building is completed, with the exception of the furniture. There is provided $24,000.00 for equipment and furniture, making a total of $105,000.00, which is the appropriation.

The Law Building is about two-thirds completed. So far the expenditures have been $165,042.32. In addition to this, the residence built for Professor Fickenscher, cost $13,198.41. This residence was authorized and paid for by Mr. Clarke. Appropriation for the residence $15,000.00.

Under date of October 28th, 1929, Messrs. Kieffer & Woodward, Attorneys of 31 Nassau Street, New York City, acting for the Estate of Thomas F. Ryan, deceased, addressed a letter to Mr. Newcomb, in which these gentlemen stated that since the provision of paragraph X of ARTICLE FIRST of Mr. Ryan's will, giving a net income of $3000.00 per year for the Thomas F. Ryan Scholarships was educational in its nature, and therefore perpetual, the Trustees under Mr. Ryan's will, namely— Messrs. William C. Potter and Clendennin J. Ryan, were anxious to be relieved of the duties of administering the capital fund from which this income is to be produced, and they have asked that Mr. Newcomb would consider the advisability of having The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia substituted as Trustee of said fund in the place and stead of the Trustees named in said will.

On or about the first of November, 1929, Mr. Newcomb referred Messrs. Kieffer and Woodward's letter to me for reply. I made reply under date of November 1st, 1929, and from that date down to a few months ago several letters have been exchanged on the subject, but no definite plan of action was agreed on.

On Friday, November 6th, 1931, a conference was held in the President's Office at the University of Virginia, at the request of Mr. Kieffer. Mr. Newcomb, Acting President, was present, together with Mr. Kieffer and Mr. Caskie, of Lynchburg, his associate, representing the Ryan Estate, and W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University. Mr. Kieffer stated that Mr. Ryan's Executors are very anxious to have the University qualify as Trustee with reference to the fund to be set apart for the maintenance of the Ryan Scholarships at the University. He stated that it would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to obtain a Trust Company in the City of New York to consent to act, in view of the fact that the trust is perpetual and the amount involved is not large. The additional expense which the qualification of a Trust Company would entail in the way of commissions both on the principal of the fund and on the annual income is also a consideration.

Mr. Kieffer and Mr. Caskie requested that the whole situation be presented at the next meeting of The Rector and Visitors and expressed the earnest desire that the University agree to accept the Trusteeship, and take charge of the principal of the fund. Mr. Newcomb and Mr. Perkins agreed that the matter should be presented to The Rector and Visitors, and with this explanation I beg leave to submit the following statement.

Paragraph X of ARTICLE FIRST of the Will of Thomas F. Ryan reads as follows.

"X. I give and bequeath to my Trustees a fund in trust sufficient to produce a net income of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) per year for the benefit of and for the purpose of continuing what are now known as the Thomas F. Ryan Scholarships at the University of Virginia."

ARTICLE SEVENTEENTH of said Will reads, in part, as follows:

"I hereby nominate and appoint my friend, William C. Potter, and my son, Clendennin J. Ryan, to be the Executors of this my Last Will, and of any codicil or codicils hereto. I hereby nominate and appoint my friend William C. Potter, and my son, Clendennin J. to be the Trustees of this my will and of any codicil or codicils thereto. I authorize, empower and direct my said two personal trustees, on the creation of the trusts herein provided for, to nominate and appoint a Trust Company doing business in the City of New York or a Bank doing business in the City of New York, authorized to act in the capacity of Trustee or fiduciary to the same extent as Trust Companies incorporated under the laws of this State to serve as co-trustee with them or the survivor of them under this my will. 111............It is my desire and intention that upon the creation of the trusts herein provided for there shall always be at least one individual and a Trust Company or Bank of good standing doing business in the City of New York to act as Trustees under this my will."

ARTICLE EIGHTEENTH contains the following provision:

"In case of the death, resignation or inability of either of my Executors or personal Trustees to act hereunder, I authorize and empower the survivor to appoint a successor co-Executor or a successor co-Trustee.

"Save and except as herein otherwise expressly provided, any person so appointed under the terms of this Article shall, without giving any security, have and exercise all the rights and powers of an Executor and Trustee herein conferred upon the Executors and Trustees herein named by me, as fully as if he had been originally designated and appointed as co-Executor or co-Trustee, including all discretionary powers and the power to appoint a successor to an Executor or Trustee whose position shall for any reason become vacant.

"Notwithstanding the provision that there shall always be at least one individual and a Trust Company or Bank of good standing doing business in the City of New York to act as Trustees under this, my Will, if at any time my personal Trustees or the survivor of them and the Trust Company acting as such Trustee for the time being shall be unanimously of opinion that it is better for the interests of my estate that a Trust Company or Bank in the City of New York, authorized by law to execute trusts, shall be appointed sole Trustee under this my Will, either of all or of any one or more of the separate trusts herein established, then and in that event I authorize my said Trustees, by a proper instrument in writing executed by all of them, to appoint such Trust Company or Bank as they shall select to be the sole Trustee of any one or more of the trusts under this my Will, and except as to the discretion herein expressly conferred upon my personal Trustees, I hereby give and grant unto such Trust Company or Bank all the rights, powers and authority in this my Will given to or conferred upon the Trustees herein named."

ARTICLE TWELFTH of the will states very explicitly that every gift contained in the Will is conditioned upon the fact that the beneficiaries shall not directly or indirectly prosecute any suit or any legal proceeding having for its object the defeat in whole or in part of any provision of the will, or of any testamentary intention therein declared, the provision being made that should attempt be made all gifts to any beneficiary making such attempt shall be null and void, and the amount bequeathed to such beneficiary shall immediately pass into the residuum of the estate.

The residuum of the estate is disposed of by ARTICLE FOURTH of the will under which provision is made for the Testator's children, grandchildren and widow. This clause includes not only living grandchildren, but also any grandchildren not in being at the time of the death of the Testator.

Mr. Kieffer, in his capacity of Attorney for the Ryan Estate, is, of course, intimately familiar with all of its details. He tells us that he prepared Mr. Ryan's will himself, and has attended to the probate thereof. Of course, in connection with this probate, which was undertaken before the Surrogate's Court for the City of New York, all parties in interest under said will have been cited to appear and are now before the Court.

Mr. Kieffer states that in his opinion, upon a proper presentation of the existing situation, the New York Surrogate will allow the University to qualify as Trustee under the will.

Mr. Kieffer is further of opinion that there will be no difficulty in having all of the securities belonging to the fund actually delivered to the University and transferred by it to Virginia. He further believes that as a practical matter no accounting will be required of the University as Trustee. We do not feel that this is a matter of special importance as the University will, of course, be ready and willing to make an accounting if such accounting should be desired at any time.

The question for your consideration is of a dual nature

First. Is the University willing to accept the responsibility of administering this fund, and is it under any obligation to do so? One view of the situation is that under Mr. Ryan's will his Trustees are directed to administer this fund and to pay the University $3000.00 a year. You may very properly feel that the University is interested only in receiving that amount, and that it should not undertake the responsibility of agreeing to the amount at which fund may be capitalized, or of administering the principal of the fund. On the other hand, the consideration should not be overlooked that if the University has the principal fund in its hands it will be assured of the proper administration of that fund, and will be relieved of all necessity of dealing with non-resident Trustees.

Second. Entirely aside from all question of the advisability of accepting the Trusteeship comes the consideration of what may be the legal effect of undertaking the substitution in question. The provisions of Mr. Ryan's will, set out at length above, show clearly that it was his intention that the trusts created by his will should be administered by his personal Trustees, or by at least one individual and a Trust Company. The last paragraph of ARTICLE EIGHTEENTH contains a provision, however, that if it becomes proper a Trust Company may be appointed as sole Trustee. Throughout all of the very elaborate provisions with reference to the appointment and substitution of Trustees, the intention clearly appears that a Trust Company or Bank in the City of New York shall be appointed whenever the personal Trustees cannot act.

The provisions of ARTICLE TWELFTH above referred to are most explicit in annulling any gift, the beneficiary of which attempts in any way to defeat any testamentary intention expressed in the will. We think these phases of the problem should be most carefully considered, and that any consent on the part of The Rector and Visitors to act as substituted Trustee should be conditioned upon—

1st. Having this whole situation submitted to a firm of lawyers in the City of New York, to be selected by this Board,

2nd. Upon an opinion being given by these lawyers, stating that in their opinion such substitution of Trustees will not in any way be contrary to any intention expressed by Mr. Ryan in his will, and

3rd. That the Surrogate's Court for the City of New York in the proceeding now pending before it, and with the parties now before it, has full and complete jurisdiction to enter the order substituting the University in the place of the Trustees named in the will, and to authorize the proper transfer of the funds from the State of New York to the State of Virginia

We think that the cost of this opinion and all other costs connected with this matter should be borne by the Ryan Estate.

We also believe that the fund which may be set apart to produce the annual payment of $3000.00 should be large enough to insure an annual income of at least that amount under the most unfavorable conditions.