 TEI to HTML

An adjourned meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date with the Rector Fred W. Scott, and Visitors Garnett, Hall, McIntire, Munford, Rinehart, Stuart, Walker, L.C. Williams and R. Gray Williams present.

The Board proceeded to consider the appointment of a president of the University, which matter was continued from the meeting of September 6, 1933, whereupon the following motion, duly made and seconded, was unanimously adopted:

WHEREAS, heretofore, pursuant to the terms and provisions of the statute relating to the government of the University, notice was duly given by publication that the Board would proceed, at a meeting on September 6, 1933, to appoint a president; and

WHEREAS the matter of such appointment was considered at the said meeting, no conclusion being reached, was postponed to an adjourned meeting to be held on this date, and

WHEREAS motion now made that Dr. John Lloyd Newcomb, Acting President of the University of Virginia, be appointed President of the University, therefore it is now

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That Dr. John Lloyd Newcomb be and he is now appointed President of the University of Virginia; such appointment to date from October 1, 1933, at the salary now provided for the President in the State Budget of 1932-34, subject to such reductions as may have been, or in the future will be made by the Governor; and that he shall also have the use of the President's residence and lawn without charge, together with such other emoluments as appertain to the office of President.

RESOLVED, further, That the Rector be requested to communicate to Dr. Dr. Newcomb his appointment to the Presidency of the University and ascertain whether he will accept the office.

The Rector forthwith proceeded to the residence of Dr. Newcomb, advised him of his appointment and returned with him to the office where the meeting was being held. The President-elect accepted the appointment, and pledged his best efforts in carrying forward the work of the University.

Attention was called to the need of repairs and furnishings for the President's residence before it could be occupied by Dr. Newcomb, whereupon the Rector requested the Committee on Buildings and Grounds to have the property put in proper repair, and to see that it was adequately furnished for the comfort of the President and his family.

The meeting then adjourned.