 TEI to HTML

ENROLLMENT REGULAR STUDENTS: 1500.GIFTS:LEAVES OF ABSENCES:CONTRACT FOR THE NAVY FLIGHT PREPARATORY SCHOOL:CONTRACT FOR THE PRE-METEOROLOGICAL TRAINING UNIT:REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE IN RE: INVESTMENTS, ETC.DEPOSITORIES OF THE UNIVERSITY'S ENDOWMENT INVESTMENTS - FIDELITY BONDS THEREFOR:NAVAL FLIGHT PREPARATORY SCHOOL—CHARACTER OF TEACHING"THE SENTINELS OF THE REPUBLIC"-PROPOSED GIFT—DECLINED:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the General Education Board, for the purchase of books, periodicals, and library materials in the graduate field of Economics, curing the two-year period beginning February 1, 1943

$5,000

From the General Education Board, toward the Workshop for High School Principals on School-Community Relations, to be held during the summer of 1943

1,500

From Mrs. Anne Calvert Neely, to be applied to the beginning of a publishing fund

100

From the Estate of Joseph Harvey Riley, books on natural history (zoological and botanical) and as remainderman, the decedent's residence and 8.312 acres of surrounding real estate, the real property to be sold and the proceeds used as a nucleus of a fund to found a School and Museum of Vertebrate Zoology.

Referred to Mr. Garnett to investigate the property

Portrait of General John Hartwell Cocke,

From the Estate of his great-granddaughter, Mrs. Mazyck Wilson Shields.

From E. R. Stettinius, Jr.

300

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date in the office of the President with the Rector, R. Gray Williams and Visitors Lewis C. Williams, Hollis Rinehart, Christopher B. Garnett, Edward R. Stettinius, Jr., Edward C. Anderson and Aubrey G. Weaver, and President Newcomb present.

Minutes of the meeting of January 30th, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President made the following announcements:

It is recommended that the following action be taken.

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that leave of absence, without pay, be granted the following members of the staff, for the duration of the war and six months thereafter:

Dr. Edmund Olaf Belsheim Associate Professor of Law, to act as Chief of the Legal Staff of of the Intelligence Branch of the Board of Economic Warfare, effective March 16, 1943.

Mr. John E. Canaday, Assistant Professor of History of Art, to take part in a mission of the Board of Economic Warfare to the Belgian Congo, effective March 15, 1943.

Dr. Lewis Machen Hammond, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, (this is an extension of his leave to continue work as Tutor at St. John's College for the Session 1943-44, or, in the event he enters the armed services, for the duration of the war and six months thereafter.)

Mr. Charles H. Kauffmann, Assistant Professor of Extension Teaching to accept a commission in the Marine Reserve, effective April 1, 1943.

Mr. Anthony Vincent Shea, Acting Assistant Professor of Political Science, effective March 1, 1943, to accept a commission in the Naval Reserve.

The President explained to the Board the terms of the proposed contract between the United States of America and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia for the operation of a Navy Flight Preparatory School in the University, and after full discussion it was

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized and directed to sign on behalf of the Board a Contract NOp 43 (formerly NOd 3148) between the United States of America and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, dated January 1, 1943, for the operations of a Navy Flight Preparatory School in the University of Virginia.

RESOLVED, FURTHER, that E. I. Carruthers, Secretary of this Board, be and he is hereby authorized and directed to attest the signature, affix the seal, and certify that this Resolution was passed by authority of the Governing Board of the University of Virginia, and is within the scope of its corporate powers.

The President explained to the Board the terms of the proposed contract between the United States of America and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia for the operation of a Class C Pre-Meteorological Training Unit in the University. After full discussion it was

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized and directed to sign on behalf of this Board Contract No ADP 44 W 2620 AC-134 between the United States of America and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, dated February 18, 1943, for the operation of a Class C Pre-Meteorological Training Unit in the University of Virginia.

RESOLVED, FURTHER, that E. I. Carruthers, Secretary of this Board, be and he is hereby authorized and directed to attest the signature, affix the seal, and certify that this Resolution was passed by authority of the Governing Board of the University of Virginia, and is within the scope of its corporate powers.

The Rector stated to the Board that, acting in his capacity as Chairman of the Finance Committee, he had conferred with Mr. Buford Scott, of the firm of Scott & Stringfellow, of Richmond, Va., with a view to compiling a list of securities to be purchased for the endowment funds of the University to take up the uninvested cash now in the several depositories, to be presented to this meeting of the Board for its consideration. The conference, however, developed the fact that the question was more than making up a mere list of suggested securities; that there was the further question of giving study to the present investments and the continuing study of the securities under the control of the Rector and Visitors.

He further stated that he had discussed with Mr. Scott the possibility of having his firm act in the capacity of investment counsel for the University as to such funds as as may be under the control of the Board, and had suggested that he attend this meeting and give his views of the matter.

Mr. Scott was then invited to appear, whereupon a general discussion of the matter was had. He stated that it would be agreeable for his firm to have one of their employees devote a part of his time to the University's account; to advise upon the sale and purchase of its securities; that the compensation for this service would be $100,00 per month, as had been mentioned by the Rector.

The matter was disposed of in the following motion, adopted:

WHEREAS, Scott and Stringfellow, Investment Bankers, of Richmond, Virginia, have investigated and advised The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, and/or its Finance Committee, in the purchase and sale of many securities, without receiving compensation therefor, other than the customary commission on sales; and

WHEREAS, it is deemed proper and fair that a small monthly sum be paid to Scott and Stringfellow as a contribution toward the clerical expense involved in advising upon the purchase and sale of securities owned by the University of Virginia.

BE IT RESOLVED: That the sum of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) per month be paid to Scott and Stringfellow, for a period of one (1) year from the 1st day of April, 1943, unless either party to this agreement should give to the other, in writing, at least thirty (30) days' notice of a desire to cancel this agreement.

The question of investing the present cash in the endowment funds was disposed of in the following motion, adopted:

RESOLVED, That the cash held in the several depositories of the University, awaiting investing, be invested by the Chairman of the Finance Committee in such securities as may meet the requirements of the University's former action as to legal investments, including Governments, as he may determine.

RESOLVED, FURTHER, that he be authorized to sell, in his discretion, the 870 shares of Commercial Investment Trust common stock now held in the Consolidated Investments.

The question of whether or not the several depositories holding the investments of the University's endowment funds should be required to provide fidelity bonds covering the values of their respective holdings, was referred to the Rector to investigate.

The character of the teaching to be done in the Naval Flight Preparatory School was discussed by the Board, and the President stated that he had recently seen a restricted communication of the Navy giving the rating of the twenty schools engaged in this Pre-Flight Training as regards the results of a mathematics examination prepared in Washington and graded in Washington, and given to all students in the twenty schools. The University of Virginia stood fifth from the top. In four of these schools the students showed higher grades than did ours, and in fifteen of the twenty the grades were lower.

The Board discussed the offer made by "The Sentinels of the Republic" to establish here an essay award to carry the name of their organization. After thorough discussion of the subject it was regretfully decided to decline the gift, and the Rector was directed to write a letter to Mr. Cadwallader.

On motion the meeting then adjourned: