 TEI to HTML

GIFTS:ELECTIONS:LEAVE OF ABSENCE:ACCEPTANCE OF OFFER OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA OF A GRANT OF $4,700 TO AID IN FINANCING OUR CADET NURSES PROGRAM:SALE OF THE A. R. HOUSE TRACT, BEING A PART OF THE SEWARD FOREST PROPERTY:TRANSFER OF THE STOCK CERTIFICATE OF THE GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPAY:CONTRACT WITH CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE LEASING ADDITIONAL LAND ON OBSERVATORY MOUNTAIN IN ORDER TO IMPROVE AND ENLARGE THE FILTER PLANT:EXTENSION OF LEASE ON THE ROOM IN THE ENTRANCE BUILDING USED AS A BRANCH OF THE PEOPLES NATIONAL BANKREPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON STUDY OF THE ACADEMIC DEPARTMENT OF THE UNIVERSITY:A SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO STUDY THE ENGINEERING AND EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS:MEMORIAL TO HONORABLE AUBREY GARDNER WEAVER:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From The Rockefeller Foundation, over a three-year period beginning June 1, 1944, to be used for the salary of Dr. Dumas Malone at the rate of $6,000 per annum, and $1,000 each year for travel, secretarial help, etc.

$21,000

From the General Education Board, for the salary of Visiting Professor Ronald Alfred Silow, $3,750 for one year beginning July 1, 1944, and $250 toward his travel expenses a total of

4,000

From the Board of Governors of the Woman's Club of Newport News, for a fellowship at the University of Virginia for a Latin-American student, the sum of

300

to be continued over a five-year period.

From Mr. Bert Galbraith, of Salem, Va., to be used by the Tumor Clinic for the purchase of Radon for indigent patients

60

Henry M. Stratton

$6,100

W. E. Clary

5,600

L. M. Wright

5,600

M. A. Bloom

5,550

W. A. Bowen

5,026

J. C., Lucy & S. S. Clary

5,100

E. L. & M. R. Edwards

4,500

J. B. Connell

3,700

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date at 11 o'clock a.m. in the President's Office, with the following present; the Rector R. Gray Williams, and Visitors Lewis C. Williams, C. B. Garnett, James H. Corbitt, C. O'Connor Goolrick, E. C. Anderson, Dabney S. Lancaster, Dr. W. D. Haden, E. R. Stettinius, Jr., and Maitland H. Bustard, and President Newcomb.

Maitland H. Bustard, appointed by the Governor to succeed Aubrey G. Weaver, deceased, for the term ending February 28, 1946, had duly qualified as a Visitor.

Minutes of the meeting of March 21, 1944 having been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President advised the Board that Mr. Paul Goodloe McIntire, a former member of this Board, would celebrate his 85th birthday on May 28th, and he was requested to send him a telegram extending the felicitations of the Board.

The President announced the following enrollment and gifts:

Enrollment as of this date 1341.

Upon the recommendation of the President, the following elections to the faculty, and leave of absence to a member were voted:

Mr. Ronald Alfred Silow, Visiting Professor in the field of Plant Genetics, for one year beginning July 1, 1944, at a salary of $3,750, with an additional allowance of $250.00 toward his traveling expenses from Trinidad.

Dr. George Burroughs Mider, Associate Professor of Pathology, beginning July 1, 1944, at a salary of $6,000 per annum. Dr. Mider succeeds Dr. W. A. Derrick, resigned.

Dr. Dumas Malone, Honorary Consultant in Biography to the Alderman Library, for a period of three years beginning June 1, 1944, at a salary of $6,000 per annum with an additional $1,000 each year for travel, secretarial help, etc., to be paid by a grant from The Rockefeller Foundation.

Dr. Gustav Arnold Hedlund, Professor of Mathematics, was granted leave of absence without salary beginning June 15th, 1944 for the duration of the war, in order to undertake special work for the United States Government.

The following resolution was adopted:

Whereas, there has been filed with the Federal Works Agency in behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (herein called the "Owner"), an application for Federal assistance under the War Public Works program, and the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, acting by and through the Federal Works Administrator, has transmitted to the Owner an Offer of Federal assistance in connection with the public works referred to in said application and described in said Offer; and

Whereas, said Offer has been duly read in open meeting, fully considered in accordance with all pertinent rules of procedure and legal requirements, and made a part of the Owner's public records; and

Whereas, it is deemed advisable and in the public interest that said Offer be accepted:

Now, therefore, be it RESOLVED

by the Board of Visitors of the Owner that said Offer, a true and correct copy of which, including the Terms and Conditions, is hereto attached, be and the same hereby is accepted without reservation or qualification.

The President presented to the Board a communication from Alfred Akerman, director of the Seward Forest, recommending that the A. R. House tract of land consisting of approximately 175½ acres, lying some eleven miles from the main Forest tract, in Meherrin District, Brunswick County, Va., be sold, and submitted eight sealed bids on the said property, on identical bid-forms prepared by himself. The bids, upon being opened, were found to be as follows:

Whereas, from the foregoing bids it appears that Henry M. Stratton's bid is the highest, be it

RESOLVED, that the bid of Henry M. Stratton of $6,100 be accepted and that the President be, and he is hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver to said Henry M. Stratton upon the payment of the said sum of $6,100, a deed to the said tract, and the Secretary is directed to attach the seal of the University and attest the same. Adopted.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, that the General Electric Company Stock Certificate, No. NYE 383690 for fifty shares of common stock issued in the name of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, dated July 30, 1942, be reissued in the name of HAMAC AND COMPANY, Nominee of the State-Planters Bank & Trust Co. of Richmond, Va., a depository of the University of Virginia for endowment fund investments; and that J. L. Newcomb, President, be and he is hereby authorized to sign said certificate on behalf of this Board.

The President presented the amended contract in the foregoing matter and the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, that the Rector be and he is hereby authorized and requested to execute and deliver said contract in the name and on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and the Secretary is hereby instructed to affix the corporate seal thereto and attest the same.

The President stated to the Board that he had received from the Peoples National Bank a request for an extension of its lease on the room in the Entrance Building of the University, used as a branch bank, for ten years from August 31, 1944, at the same monthly rental as now in effect, namely $100.00 per month, which extension would justify them in making, at their own expense, certain interior improvements, and proposed the following resolution, which was adopted:

WHEREAS the Peoples National Bank of Charlottesville, Va., has made request for extension of its lease on the room occupied in the Entrance Building of the University for its Branch Bank for a term of ten years from August 31, 1944 under the same terms and conditions as contained in a certain lease dated September 7, 1937, therefor be it

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that J. L. Newcomb, President, be and he is hereby authorized and directed to execute a lease on the room in the Entrance Building occupied by the University Branch Bank of the Peoples National Bank of Charlottesville, Va., for a period of ten years, beginning September 1, 1944, under the same terms and conditions as contained in a certain lease dated September 7, 1937.

Mr. Edward C. Anderson, Chairman of the Special Committee to make a study of the Academic Department of the University, submitted its report which was read and discussed at length. The following action was taken:

RESOLVED, (1) That the report, dated November 18, 1943, of the Special Committee of the Board of Visitors, appointed June 12, 1942, to make a study of the Academic Department of the University, be received with assurance of appreciation of the good work of said Special Committee and filed for the guidance of all concerned, awaiting a report from the faculty, and that the faculty expedite its report to the Board.

(2) That the Board approves, generally, of the plan that a class system for the first two years in the College be established as outlined in the Committee's report, with basic courses as required courses, and that the Faculty be requested to report to this Board a plan for its adoption, and

(3) That a full-time Dean of Students be appointed.

Adopted.

(Section 1 was offered by Mr. Corbitt, and sections 2 and 3 by Mr. Lewis C. Williams.)

The following was adopted:

RESOLVED, that in the discretion of the Rector, a Special Committee be appointed to study the Engineering and Education Departments of the University, and report to this Board.

The Rector requested at the April meeting of this Board, to prepare a memorial, touching the life of the late Aubrey G. Weaver, submitted the following which was received, and adopted and ordered to be spread upon the minutes of this Board, and a copy thereof sent to his widow:

MEMORIAL ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA TO THE HONORABLE AUBREY GARDNER WEAVER

At the high point of his leadership in the Senate of Virginia, at the peak of his prominence as a lawyer, surrounded by troops of friends, Aubrey G. Weaver died, about midnight, March 10, 1944, after reaching the lobby of the Jefferson Hotel, Richmond, Virginia, from the effects of the hot smoke that drove him from his room and overstrained a weakened heart.

While still in love with life and full of ambition for the future, tragedy, unannounced and unsuspected, took from the State this useful servant and from his admirers this valued friend.

Few public men have touched the life of the State at so many points. Aubrey Weaver had a rare talent for politics. He displayed remarkable poise and good sense. Session after session, he led the Finance Committee of the Senate in the making of a budget that preserved a balance between income and outgo and, at the same time, afforded sufficient funds to permit the State to progress.

Aubrey Weaver was appointed by Governor Colgate W. Darden, Jr. a member of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia on the 1st day of March, 1942, and has served faithfully since that time.

A successful student in the University of Virginia Law School, Aubrey Weaver was awarded, in 1902, the degree of Bachelor of Law. He was very proud of his class and usually returned to the University to class reunions. For the University, itself, Aubrey Weaver cherished an admiring affection, and he was always anxious to serve his Alma Mater. He spent many weeks as a patient in the University Hospital, and was successful in obtaining certain appropriations for the improvement of the hospital buildings. In the meetings of this Board, he was active and his wide experience in the public life of the State gave both authority and effectiveness to his recommendations.

Born at Front Royal, Virginia, in 1882, Aubrey Weaver prepared at Randolph Macon Academy for the University of Virginia. When he obtained his law degree in 1902 he was not yet twenty-one and he was enabled, only by a special Act, to take his examination for admission to the bar. While awaiting the opportunity to practice, he served The Chesapeake and Ohio Railway, as an Assistant Claim Agent. His office was at Clifton Forge, and here he remained until February, 1905, when he resigned to become a partner with Henry H. Downing, a leader of the Front Royal Bar, in the practice of law.

When Mr. Downing died, in January, 1919, Aubrey Weaver formed a law partnership with the late W. C. Armstrong, former Clerk of the Circuit Court of Rappahannock County. In December, 1936, this firm was dissolved by the death of Mr. Armstrong, and the new firm of Weaver, Armstrong and Marshall was formed to endure until the untimely death of the senior partner.

Aubrey Weaver's firm enjoyed a large practice, including the work of Division Counsel for The Norfolk and Western Railway, Assistant Division Counsel for the Southern Railway, counsel at Front Royal for the American Viscose Corporation, counsel for the Citizens National Bank of Front Royal, and solicitor for the town of Front Royal.

In his practice Aubrey Weaver was particularly good as a jury lawyer, and was skilful in the examination of witnesses.

In the General Assembly his services included four years in the House of Delegates, from 1912 to 1916, one-half of which time he was chairman of the Finance Committee of the House.

In 1915 he was appointed to the State Tax Commission and here he contributed to the development of Virginia's system of tax segregation. Senator Weaver was proud of his joint sponsorship with the late Lieutenant Governor B. F. Buchanan of a bill embodying changes suggested by the State Tax Commission.

Prominent as Aubrey Weaver was, however, in the House, it was not until he became well seated in the Senate that he was recognized as an outstanding legislative leader.

It was in 1931, that he was elected to the Virginia Senate after a close contest with the late John J. Morrison, of Harrisonburg. This district is composed of the City of Harrisonburg, and the counties of Warren, Rockingham, Page and Rappahannock.

Senator Weaver was already familiar with the work of the Senate Finance Committee when he was made chairman of this powerful committee in 1940. When it is noted that the Bill that was enacted only a few hours after his death carried appropriations for the biennium of two hundred and thirty-five million dollars, one may realize the magnitude of the work that Senator Weaver did.

For many years Senator Weaver was chairman of the Governor's Budget Advisory Committee, and toured the State in the study of the needs of the various institutions.

Senator Weaver served in the Senate under Governors Pollard, Peery, Price and Darden.

In addition to the chairmanship of the Finance Committee, Senator Weaver was also chairman of the important Steering Committee, which is a committee on committees.

He was especially proud of his successful work as patron of the old age assistance bill.

It was in June, 1912, that Governor Mann appointed Aubrey Weaver to the State Board of Law Examiners. He was proud of the service he rendered on this Board, and appreciated his election as President of this Board.

Aubrey G. Weaver was the son of the late W. Cass Weaver and Mrs. Weaver, of Warren County. He is survived by his wife, who was before her marriage Miss Pearl Davis Kenner; three daughters, Mrs. Joseph M. Carson, Jr., of Front Royal; Mrs. Alexander Craig Livingston, of New York City, and Mrs. Walter Allan Nichols, of Camp Cooke, California, and a brother, Henry B. Weaver, of Front Royal.

He was a member of the Methodist Church, and was active in many clubs, fraternal organizations and associations. He was prominent in the Masonic Order. He was a happy companion for his wife, children and grandchildren. When asked by a reporter to confess his hobbies, he replied; "My grandchildren." His tolerance his good humor, and his democratic love of people, his broad sympathies, made him a delightful host and an inspiring companion.

Upon this Board, where he once sat as one of us, we shall remember his kindness, his tolerance, his genius for friendship, his freedom from hypocrisy, and his readiness to serve the University he loved. If he had had time to reflect before his strong, bright mind was overcome by a weakened heart, he could have truthfully said, "I have done some service to the State; the brief candle of my life is burnt out; it is God's will that I go hence."

The meeting then adjourned.