 TEI to HTML

GRANT BY UNITED STATES OF AMERICA OF $147,500.00 TO AID IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF A NURSES' HOME (Project No. Va. 44-356)RATIFICATION OF AWARD OF CONTRACT FOR EXCAVATION AND GRADING WORK ON THE ADDITION TO THE NURSES' HOME TO H. T. FERRON.AUTHORITY FOR MAKING PURCHASES IN CONNECTION WITH FEDERAL WORKS AGENCY PROJECT Va. 44-383.NEW BUILDINGS COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS GIVEN AUTHORITY TO ADVERTISE FOR BIDS, RECEIVE AND OPEN SAME, AND TO ACCEPT AND AWARD CONTRACTS FOR EXCAVATIONS, GRADING, CONSTRUCTION OF NEW BUILDINGS, ETC.PROFESSORS DISQUE AND SAUNDERS OF THE UNIVERSITY FACULTY ADDED TO NEW BUILDINGS COMMITTEE.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date at 11 o'clock a.m. at Mary Washington College with the following present: The Rector, R. Gray Williams, and Visitors, L. C. Williams, C. B. Garnett, James H. Corbitt, C. O'Connor Goolrick, E. C. Anderson, Dr. W. D. Haden, D. S. Lancaster, Mrs. O. A. Calcott, Mrs. Phoebe E. Willis, Mrs. Bertha P. Wailes, Mrs. Lila S. Gilmer, and Richard A. Carrington, Jr., and President Newcomb, Absent: Stettinius and Bustard.

The four ladies, recently appointed to the Board, had duly qualified, but Mr. Carrington, the last appointee by the Governor, had not had an opportunity to qualify and did not vote on any of the matters considered.

The President welcomed the four ladies and Mr. Carrington who had been recently appointed to the Board by the Governor to complete its membership of fifteen, and explained that he had prepared a very short agenda of business for the meeting as the prime purpose of the gathering was to get acquainted, and to afford an opportunity for the members to meet President Combs, and visit the buildings and grounds.

The President presented the following matters, which were read, discussed and adopted:

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia held on the 24th day of June, 1944, a resolution was adopted authorizing J. L. Newcomb, President, to sign for said Board an acceptance of a grant of $147,500.00 from the United States of America to aid in the construction of a Nurses' home (Project No. Va. 44-356) when the formal offer shall have been received, and that the certificate be signed and attested by the Secretary of the Board.

At the time of the adoption of this resolution (June 24, 1944) the formal offer had not been received. It has since been received, however, and has been signed by said J. L. Newcomb, President, with the seal of the University affixed and attested by E. I. Carruthers, Secretary of said Board pursuant to authority granted said President and Secretary in the resolution aforesaid.

This Board now desires to ratify, approve and confirm said acceptance of said offer and it is therefore,

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby ratifies, approves and confirms the action of said J. L. Newcomb, President, and of E. I. Carruthers, Secretary, in executing acceptance of said offer as aforesaid, and hereby specifically adopts said action of its President and Secretary at the action of this Board.

At a meeting of the New Buildings Committee of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia held in the office of the President at the University at 11 o'clock A.M., on July 25, 1944, six bids on excavation and grading work for an addition to the Nurses' Home of the University of Virginia Hospital (Project No. Va. 44-356) were submitted, opened and read. And it appearing that H. T. Ferron, of Charlottesville, Virginia, was the lowest bidder and that his bid was in proper order, a resolution was unanimously adopted by said New Buildings Committee awarding said contract to said H. T. Ferron of Charlottesville, Virginia, at his base bid of $6,445.00, this award being subject to the approval of the Governor of Virginia and Federal Works Agency.

This Board now desires to ratify, approve and confirm the action of said New Buildings Committee in awarding said contract to said H. T. Ferron as aforesaid and it is, therefore,

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby ratifies, approved and confirms the action of its New Buildings Committee taken July 25, 1944, in awarding to H. T. Ferron, of Charlottesville, Virginia, the contract for excavation and grading work on the addition to the Nurses Home of the University of Virginia Hospital (Project No. Va. 44-356) at his base bid of $6,445.00, he being the low bidder of six contractors whose bids were submitted, as set out in the foregoing preamble.

It is distinctly understood, however, that the award of said contract heretofore made by said New Buildings Committee and as approved by this resolution is subject to the approval of the Governor of Virginia and of the Federal Works Agency.

And it was further

RESOLVED that the New Buildings Committee of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia be and is hereby given full and complete authority to advertise for bids, receive and open same, and to accept and award contracts for addition to the Nurses' Home of the University of Virginia Hospital (Project No. Va. 44-356), approve any changes found to be necessary during the course of construction, approve contractors and contractors' insurance, subcontractors and subcontractors' insurance, and generally to handle any and all matters of every kind, manner or description that may arise during the construction of this building, the equipment thereof, inside and outside of the building, and any other matters directly or remotely connected therewith, and J. L. Newcomb, President, is hereby authorized to execute any and all such contracts that may be awarded in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and E. I. Carruthers, Secretary of this Board is hereby authorized and empowered to affix the seal of the Corporation to any and all such contracts and attest the same.

It is distinctly understood however that the award of any such contracts shall be subject to approval by the Governor of Virginia and by the Federal Works Agency.

(Equipment for certain houses rented to provide living quarters for Cadet Nurses)

BE IT RESOLVED that E. I. Carruthers, Purchasing Agent of the University of Virginia, and C. S. Lentz, M.D., Administrator of the University of Virginia Hospital, are hereby authorized and empowered to accept bids and award any and all contracts in connection with Federal Works Agency Project Va. 44-383, and any action which has heretofore been taken by the said E. I. Carruthers and C. S. Lentz, M.D., in connection with the award of contracts for this project is hereby ratified and approved.

RESOLVED that the New Buildings Committee of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, as at present constituted and as hereafter appointed be and is hereby given full and complete authority to advertise for bids, receive and open same, and accept and award contracts for excavations, grading, construction of new buildings, additions to, extensions of or changes in existing buildings, and for other structures or instrumentalities to be erected or placed upon the grounds of the University of Virginia, to approve any changes in plans or in construction found to be necessary during the course of construction of any building, approve contractors and contractors' insurance, sub-contractors and subcontractors' insurance, and generally to handle any and all matters of every kind, manner or description that may arise during the construction, remodeling, addition to or extensions of or changes in any building, inside and outside of such building, and any other matters directly or indirectly connected therewith.

And J. L. Newcomb, President, is hereby authorized to execute any and all such contracts awarded by said New Buildings Committee under the foregoing powers and E. I. Carruthers, Secretary of this Board, is hereby authorized and empowered to affix the seal of the Corporation to any and all such contracts and to attest and deliver the same.

By resolution adopted Professor F. C. Disque of the Architectural Faculty, and Professor E. W. Saunders of the Engineering Faculty were added to the New Buildings Committee.

President and Mrs. Combs entertained the members of the Board at a delightful luncheon, after which they were conducted on a tour of the buildings and grounds.