 TEI to HTML

ENROLLMENT: 1193.GIFTS:PROMOTIONS AND ELECTIONS:PROMOTIONS:ELECTIONS:NAVAL OFFICERS SERVING AT THE UNIVERSITY: THE PRESIDENT AUTHORIZED TO GIVE THEM PROPER PROFESSORIAL STANDING IN THE FACULTY:SPEECH CLINIC FEES:RYAN SCHOLARSHIPS AWARDED:MASSIE PROPERTY PURCHASE:UNIVERSITY RESIDENCE, ASSIGNMENT OF:ANNUAL BUDGET:BI-ANNUAL STATE BUDGET REQUESTS:MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSLEAVES OF ABSENCE: For one year, effective immediately, without salary:ELECTIONS: Effective September 17, 1945:BUILDING PROGRAM:THE SUTHERLAND MATTER:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the General Education Board, for the salary of a Plant Physiologist and for equipment and supplies for the Physiology Laboratory

$29,500

From the Rockefeller Foundation, toward the expenses of the proposed trips of Dr. Rowland Egger

2,700

From the Estate of Miss Dorothy Deering

2,500

1\. For initial examination (required of all non-students seeking clinical treatment or advice)

$

2\. For therapy (series of 16 weekly lessons of thirty minutes each)

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date in the President's office at 11 o'clock, with the following present: The Rector, R. Gray Williams, Visitors Lewis C. Williams, Christopher B. Garnett, C. O'Conor Goolrick, Edward C. Anderson, Dabney S. Lancaster, Barron F. Black, Mrs. Phoebe E. Willis and Mrs. Bertha P. Wailes; President Newcomb, and President Combs of Mary Washington College.

Minutes of the meeting of June 15, copied and mailed to the members were approved.

The Rector announced to the meeting the death, on June 21, 1945, of James Howard Corbitt, a member of the Board of Visitors, and stated that he had requested Mr. Garnett to prepare and present to the meeting a Memorial in his honor. Thereupon, Mr. Carnett presented the following which was unanimously adopted:

MEMORIAL TO JAMES HOWARD CORBITT

JAMES HOWARD CORBITT of Suffolk, Virginia, died in Richmond, on June 21, 1945. He was born at Boykins, Southampton County, Virginia, April 29, 1869. His death removed the alumnus who was more closely identified and connected with the University than any other alumnus, if we exclude the members of the faculty of the University. After two years at Richmond College, he entered the University in 1888 and for ten years was a resident of the University, either as a student or as an instructor. He took his A.B. and B.Ph. degrees in 1892; his M.A. in 1893. He was instructor in natural philosophy from 1891 to 1897.

Although his ability, training and experience entitled him to look forward to the professorship of natural philosophy, he determined to change his profession and become a student in the Law Department in 1897-98.

In 1899 and 1900 he was a practicing attorney at Atlanta, Georgia, naving been previously admitted to the Virginia bar in 1898 and to the Georgia bar in 1899. Since 1900 he has practiced law at Suffolk, Virginia, where he was made Assistant Division Counsel of the Southern Railway, District Counsel for the Seaboard Airline Railway, Counsel for the Norfolk & Western Railway and the Atlantic Coast Line and Virginia Railway Companies. His interest in law was not confined to practice and procedure and the winning of cases. This is evidenced by the fact that he was for many years an active member of the Virginia State Bar Association and its president in 1927-28; likewise a member of the American Bar Association, and a member of its Board of Governors in 1936-38.

His interest in the University of Virginia is attested by every loyal alumnus, and many will recall the unstinted devotion which he showed by leading the fights in the Legislature for or against those bills which affected the University of Virginia. The refusal of the Legislature to make the University a co-ordinate college for women was in a large measure due to his activity and ceaseless work before the Legislature. Thus, indirectly, he had a great deal to do with the establishment of Mary Washington College at Fredericksburg as the recognized college of liberal arts for women in Virginia, supported by taxation.

The fraternities and societies to which he belonged give evidence of the wonderful influence with, and interest in, other people, which was the marked characteristic of Jim Corbitt. He was a member of Alpha Tau Omega, Lambda Pi, Phi Delta Phi, Phi Beta Kappa and Tilka Society.

He was a member of the Virginia Club at Norfolk, Princess Anne at Virginia Beach, Commonwealth Club at Richmond, the Colonnade at the University of Virginia, Farmington Country Club at Charlottesville, and of the University and Cosmos Clubs in Washington, D. C.

On November 26, 1902, he married Roberta Clifford Ansley, and she bore him three daughters, Roberta (Mrs. Tomlin Braxton Horsley), Anne Middleton (Mrs. Lamar Wight Little), and Harriet Whitney. His home life was ideal and his devotion to his family was well known among all of his friends.

He served the University of Virginia for many years as a member of the Alumni Board of Trustees and since 1934 he has been a member of the Board of Visitors. As in all other capacities, his service was unselfish and directed solely to the best interests of the University. Until incapacitated by his last illness, he rarely ever missed a meeting of the Board of Visitors or of the committees to which he belonged. He was a friend without guile, a foe without fear and always a gentleman.

President Newcomb reported the following:

Upon the recommendation of the President, the following promotions and elections were voted, effective July 1, 1945, at the salaries stated for nine months' session, unless otherwise noted:

Dr. Duncan Clark Hyde, Associate Professor to Professor of Economics; salary of $4,500.

Dr. Frederick Turnbull Wood, Associate Professor to Professor of Germanic Languages; salary of $4,500.

Dr. Alexander David Fraser, Associate Professor to Professor of Archaeology; salary of $4,500.

Dr. Alexander Vyssotsky, Associate Professor to Professor of Astronomy, at a salary of $4,500 per annum.

Dr. Joseph Lee Vaughan, Associate Professor to Professor of English in the Department of Engineering; salary of $4,500.

Dr. Hugh Miller Spencer, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemistry; salary of $3,750.

Mr. Thadeus Braxton Woody, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Romance Languages; salary of $3,750.

Dr. Arthur Merritt Jarman, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education; salary of $3,750.

Dr. George Cooper, Jr., Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Roentgenology, salary to be paid from departmental earnings.

Dr. Daniel Silas Norton, Acting Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor of English; salary of $2,800.

Dr. Charles Julien Bishko, Instructor to Assistant Professor of History; salary of $2,800.

Mr. William McSwain Breazeale, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering; salary of $3,750.

Dr. Erland C. Gjessing, Acting Professor of Biochemistry, at a salary of $4,500 per annum, paid from Chemical Warfare Service Fund.

The President stated that due to the rapid turnover of Naval officers serving here in the pay of the Navy, and the rather infrequent meetings of the Board of Visitors, it frequently happened that an officer's term of service was practically up before he had the opportunity of presenting its name for election to the faculty, whereupon, on motion, it was voted:

That the President, upon being advised of the assignment of a Naval officer, in the pay of the Navy, to the Navy staff here, be and he is hereby authorized to give such officer proper professorial standing in the faculty of the University.

The following schedule of charges for services rendered by the Speech Clinic to non-students on an out-patient basis was voted:

NOTE: Charges for treatment involving fewer than 16 lessons, or more than 16 lessons, will be made according to the above schedule, on a proportionate basis.

For the calendar year July 1, 1945 to June 30, 1946:

FOURTH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT: Martin Boyd Coyner, Jr., Farmville, Virginia.

SEVENTH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT: Elliott Clarke Haley, Front Royal, Virginia.

EIGHTH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT: William Mayhew Ward, Alexandria, Virginia.

TENTH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT: Cary Grayson Suter, Fort Defiance, Virginia.

AT LARGE: Richard Twisdell Yates, Charlottesville, Virginia.

The President presented to the meeting an offer signed by James P. Massie and Margaret B. Massie, his wife, Roy Ellerson Massie, in her own right and as Executrix of the late Eugene C. Massie, Ida Massie Valentine and C. Braxton Valentine, her husband, in the form of a letter addressed to Mr. Edward C. Anderson, c/o Scott & Stringfellow, under date of July 10, 1945, by which said James. P. Massie, and the others signing this letter, propose to sell to the University a portion of the properties known as "Copeley" and "East Copeley" lying to the northwest of the University and on the western side of Route 29, the area of the land so offered for sale being 120 acres and the price to be $65,000.00 cash. Sale to be closed at the earliest convenient time within sixty days from July 10, 1945. Title to be subject to approval by Attorney for the purchaser.

The question of the advisability of the purchase of this land for future University purposes was discussed, and it was thereupon,

RESOLVED that the offer of James P. Massie, and others, to sell to the University of Virginia 120 acres taken from the "Copeley" and "East Copeley" properties be and is hereby accepted, and the President is hereby authorized and requested to execute the acceptance of said offer, delivering such acceptance to Edward C. Anderson for delivery by him to Mr. Massie, Mrs. Roy Ellerson Massie, in her own right and as Executrix of Eugene C. Massie, deceased, and to Mrs. Ida Massie Valentine, and the Attorney for the University is directed to proceed at once with the examination of title to this property making report thereon to the next meeting of this Board of possible.

Upon the recommendation of the Buildings & Grounds Committee, the following University residences were assigned:

Pavilion I, West Lawn, to Dr. C. C. Speidel.

Monroe Hill House to Wilbur A. Nelson.

The President presented his budget for the fiscal year 1945-46, showing estimated receipts of $3,779,152.00 and estimmated expenditures of $3,683,431.00. On motion, the salary of the Dean of Women was raised from $3,400.00 to $4,000.00 per annum. The Budget was then adopted unanimously.

The President discussed with the members the preparation of the bi-ennial budget for the fiscal years 1946-48, stating that it was his desire to enter requests for all the structures requested in the 1944-46 budget not granted, together with such additional capital outlays as are deemed necessary, and he was authorized to make such requests.

President Combs presented the following matters which were approved:

Resignation of Professor Alma C. Kelly, effective immediately.

Assistant Professor Richard H. Bauer,

Assistant Professor Mary E. McKenzie,

Assistant Professor Estelle P. Derryberry.

Dr. Elizabeth Eastland, Assistant Professor of English, salary of $2,460 per nine months' session; tenure one year.

Dr. Esmond L. Marilla, Assistant Professor of English, salary of $2,500 per nine months' session; tenure one year.

Dr. Melvin R. Watson, Assistant Professor of English, salary of $2,500 per nine months' session; tenure one year.

Dr. Luisa Martin Guarch, Instructor in Spanish, salary of $2,100 per nine months' session.

Dr. Lee W. Ryan, Assistant Professor of Spanish, salary of $2,150 per nine months' session; tenure one year.

Miss Anna Mae Harris, Instructor in Mathematics, salary of $2,020 per nine months' session; tenure one year.

Miss Sally J. Jones, Instructor in Health and Physical Education; salary of $2,000 per nine months' session.

Miss Ruth E. Leonard, Instructor in Health and Physical Education, salary of $1,800 per nine months' session.

Miss Margaret C. Lumpkin, Instructor in Health and Physical Education; salary of $1,800 per nine months' session.

Miss Claudia M. Moore, Professor of Health and Physical Education; salary of $3,000 per nine months' session; tenure one year.

The following construction and extension of plant which had been considered and approved by the New Buildings Committee and recommended to the Rector and Visitors were discussed and approved:

Construction of "Willard Hall", Infirmary Building and Dining Hall; purchase of land for heating plant; and President Combs was authorized to consult with Governor Darden in reference to the purchase of the Brompton property, and to inquire into the possibility of securing the Harris and Benoit properties.

Mrs. W. O. S. Sutherland, of Wilmington, N. C., accomplete by her daughter Dorothy, a former student at Mary Washington College, appeared before the Board to request the withdrawal of a communication which she had received from the school advising her that her daughter would not be permitted to return for the session of 1945-46 on account of the infraction by her of certain school regulations. The matter was very fully discussed and considered during which President Combs and several members of the faculty were heard, and, on motion, was referred to a special committee to be appointed by the Rector for further investigation and report.

The meeting then adjourned,