 TEI to HTML

ENROLLMENT: 1137GIFTS:ELECTIONS:ELECTIONS:DEATH OF MRS. LILA S. GILMER:REPORT OF THE NEW BUILDINGS COMMITTEE:REPORT OF FINANCE COMMITTEE:USE OF ROTUNDA - ARCHITECTURAL SERVICE:COMMITTEE ON CONSOLIDATION OF MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE WITH UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:SCHOOL OF FOREIGN SERVICE AND INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS:MEMORANDUMPLAN of the SCHOOL OF FOREIGN SERVICE AND INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS of the UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIAI. PurposeII. Nature of the Course of StudyIII. The curriculum.IV. Organization and Plan of InstructionV. Conclusion.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the General Education Board, toward the support of a study of the specifications covering the classification of state employees during the period terminating June 30, 1946

$14,500.00

From the General Education Board, for the salary of an additional staff member to prepare educational materials on resources and their utilization for adult groups, during the two-year period beginning July 1, 1945

8,000.00

From Miss Dorothy M. Strickland, of Roanoke, establishing a loan fund for medical students, to be known as the STRICKLAND MEDICAL STUDENTS LOAN FUND, in memory of her father, the late Dr. James Thomas Strickland, of Roanoke

500.00

From Mr. D. C. Reams, a former student of Engineering, a second check for the purpose of strengthening the Humanistic Division of the Engineering Library

50.00

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date at 11 o'clock in the office of the President. Present, R. Gray Williams, Rector; visitors Lewis C. Williams, Christopher B. Garnet C. O'Conor Goolrick, E. C. Anderson, D. S. Lancaster, Maitland H. Bustard Mrs. O. A. Calcott, Mrs. Phoebe E. Willis, Mrs. Bertha P. Wailes and Richard A. Carrington, Jr., and President Newcomb.

The minutes of the meeting of December 23, copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President made the following announcements covering enrollment and gifts:

The following resignation and elections presented by the President were approved:

Resignation of Mr. W. Patton Graham, Professor of Romance Languages, effective June 30, 1945:

RESOLVED, that the resignation of Professor Graham be and is hereby accepted; Professor Graham has carried on his work at the University with devotion and skill, and the Board wishes for him many years of happiness in his retirement.

Mr. Frederick G. Baender, Acting Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a salary of $5,000 for a period of 12 months, encumbency to begin April 1, 1945, and extended to October 1, 1946 at the same salary rate.

Mr. James Myers Mullendore, Assistant Professor of Speech, at a session salary of $2,800, encumbency to begin July 1, 1945.

Lt. William F. Thompson, USNR, Assistant Professor of Naval Science and Tactics, effective January 17, 1945.

Lt. Howard C. Van Riper, USNR, Assistant Professor of Naval Science and Tactics, effective February 5, 1945.

Lt. Olin O. Taylor, USNR, Assistant Professor of Naval Science and Tactics, effective February 25, 1945.

The President announced the death of Mrs. Lila S. Gilmer, a member of the Board of Visitors, which occurred on February 23, 1945, and he was requested to extend to the family the sincere sympathy of the members of the Board.

In the absence of Dr. W. D. Haden, chairman of the New Buildings Committee, President Newcomb made a verbal report of the selection of architects for the several projects, as follows: That contracts for architectural work on the new dormitories, cafeteria and student union unit, the reconstruction of the North and South Wings of the old hospital building and the addition to the chemical laboratory had been made with Eggers & Higgins of New York.

The selection of architects for the several projects, as outlined, was approved by the Board, and the President was authorized to sign the contracts on behalf of the University when approval has been made by the State Board of Architects.

The President further explained that it had been deemed desirable to secure a block model for the proposed hospital construction and also site plans for other University construction; that the cost of such model and plans would not exceed the sum of $10,000; that the expenditure had met with the approval of the Governor, and that he had made an appropriation to cover the cost thereof. Motion by Mr. Lewis C. Williams to approve of having the block model and site plans prepared, was adopted.

Mr. Bustard, of the Finance Committee, presented for the action of the Board the following matters considered at a meeting of said committee on the 14th instant.

RESOLVED, that the following stocks purchased by the Finance Committee of this Board as investments for the endowment funds of the University, be and are hereby approved:

200 shares of Life Insurance Company of Virginia common stock @ 93, and

200 shares of Continental Can Co. 3 3/4% preferred stock @ 102½

Approved

RESOLVED, that the Finance Committee of this Board in making investments for the endowment funds under its control, confine such investments in common stocks to such an amount as will not exceed thirty per cent of the total value of the said endowment funds at the date of the last valuation, and that such purchases made of common stocks be reported to this Board at the first meeting following such purchases.

Approved

Mr. Lewis C. Williams, chairman of the Committee on Use of the Rotunda, stated that he desired some architectural advice in determining the proper procedure, and requested permission to employ the services of Eggers & Higgins to prepare plans for same, which was approved.

A motion by Dr. Lancaster, that a committee on the consolidation of Mary Washington College with the University of Virginia be appointed by the Rector, was adopted.

A committee from the Board of Managers of the University of Virginia Alumni Association presented the following communication in reference to the above matter:

In regard to the proposed School of Foreign Service and International Affairs at the University of Virginia, the Board of Managers of the University of Virginia Alumni Association respectfully submits for your consideration the following:

1\. The establishment of this School was proposed by Mr. Edward R. Stettinius, Jr., a member of our Board of Visitors and now Secretary of State, in a memorandum dated March 16, 1943, addressed to the Rector and the President of the University. As that memorandum states the proposition so well and forcefully we are taking the liberty of attaching a copy of the same hereto. We think it is in order to state that the interest of Mr. Stettinius in this School has not abated. On February 28, 1945, he addressed a letter from Mexico City to a member of this Committee in which he said, "I agree entirely that the time is slipping away from us and if we are really to be effective in establishing a School of Foreign Service at the University it should be done immediately. As a matter of fact, from my talk with you, you will recall that I thought it should have been done at the time of my original memorandum in 1942, a copy of which I gave you."

2\. At a meeting of the Board of Managers of the Alumni Association on February 3, 1945, the following two resolutions were adopted:

"It was moved, seconded and unanimously carried that the Alumni Association make $10,000.00 available if necessary, to advance the proposed School of Foreign Service, to be used for such purposes as may seem most desirable in the judgment of the Board of Managers. This commitment is contingent upon the announcement of this School by July 1, 1945.

"It was moved, seconded and unanimously carried that President Henry appoint a committee to request that a meeting of the Board of Visitors be called at an early date to consider the prompt establishment of the School of Foreign Service. The Board suggested that President Henry should be a member of this Committee.

3\. The able committee appointed by Dr. Newcomb to study the feasibility of establishing the School of which Dr. L. G. Moffatt of the School of Romance Languages is Chairman, has made its report. This report goes into all phases of the School including its purpose, nature of course of study, curriculum, organization and plan of instruction and a "conclusion" of which a copy is attached.

4\. It is a well-recognized fact that many attribute the lack of efficiency on the part of some engaged in diplomatic, consular and foreign service to inadequate preparation. It is obvious that the United States must and will take an ever greater and greater part in the affairs of the world. We quote the following from an article about Mr. Stettinius by Bob Considine in the Reader's Digest of March, 1945:

"He has a young man's outlook on the world. He believes we should train diplomats and foreign-service men as we train midshipmen and cadets, and he will recruit young blood until such a school develops."

5\. We can think of no University or place of instruction better suited for such a School than the University of Virginia. The fact that many other institutions are planning for the same sort of instruction shows the tremendous interest in and need for a broad and special training to equip suitable persons for this field of services. We understand that already many inquiries have come to the University in regard to this School by persons interested in entering themselves or their sons.

6\. We respectfully urge the prompt announcement of this School, notwithstanding the fact that it may be impossible to adequately supply the personnel of its faculty and directors now. We are convinced that everyone believes that such a School should be established at the University of Virginia. In the opinion of this Committee and of all with whom we have talked the feeling is that such a School at the University of Virginia in the language of the street would be a "natural".

7\. We appreciate the privilege of appearing before the Board of Visitors. We trust that our enthusiasm and zeal for this object will not be misconstrued and that we will not be thought of as stepping beyond the limits of our proper concern. The Alumni Association is increasing in strength and effectiveness from year to year. We believe that we are representative of the general alumni. This substantial contribution which the Association offers out of its comparatively small but increasing reserves is tangible evidence of the sincerity of our interest in this undertaking. In addition to this sum we feel quite sure that the sum of $35,000.00 for the Library for International Studies will be raised by the Association as a party of the Alumni Fund. We also understand that a committee of Alumni are thinking in terms of much greater support in money and prestige. The prompt announcement of this School will in our opinion accomplish indirects effects as great or greater than the direct results from the School itself.

The Committee has also asked the President of the Association, Mr. Henry, to present in a few words the general status and objectives of the Alumni Association and to let the Administration and the Board know that the Association is doing its best and hopes to do better for the good of the University of Virginia.

Subject: University of Virginia School of Foreign Service

From: Edward R. Stettinius, Jr.

Last week, at a dinner at the White House, I had a chance to discuss with certain important representatives of the State Department the outstanding opportunity offered to the University to inaugurate a school of foreign service. Very few universities in the country have formal schools of this type. I am told that Georgetown University has courses in Foreign Service, but they are more in the nature of cramming or tutoring courses that boys take after their graduation from regular academic courses.

The State Department is currently taking thirty to fifty boys a year for foreign service work. Their plans for the future will require at least a hundred a year.

The establishment of a foreign service school seems to me to be a natural step for the University to take. The school would be unique as the first one of its kind. The geographic setting of the University — its Jeffersonian atmosphere and traditions, and its proximity to Washington — make such a school particularly appealing. I am told by State Department officials that this step would arouse such great interest throughout the country that we could be very selective as to the quality and quantity of students to be admitted. The School would surely bring great prestige to the University from a national standpoint.

The general tendency is to postpone actions of this kind until after the war. It would appear, however, that this is something the University could undertake immediately with little added expense. An outstanding course of this kind at a great American university, already in operation at the close of the war, would attract high-caliber boys of the armed services who have become with international affairs. As an outgrowth of the present war, the United States is assuming a new prominence in world affairs which will increase rapidly in the next few years, and there is going to be more and more demand for young men trained for thinking along international lines.

It was recommended by a prominent member of the State Department that, to get the University of Virginia School of Foreign Service started immediately without any special financial aid, we give a degree in foreign service after a four-year course — two years in the academic departments and two years in the School of Foreign Service.

I believe the subjects to be taught could undoubtedly be handled by existing members of the University faculty. All that would be necessary would be to select some outstanding internationalist, such as a Cordell Hull, Joseph Grew or Joseph Davies, to come to the University in residence and act as Dean of the School.

If we do not act quickly, other universities are bound to take the lead in grasping this opportunity For example, Lowell Thomas, in a broadcast before the students of the Taft School subsequent to my discussions, said that Sumner Welles had personally emphasized to him the necessity for internationally-minded young men to represent the United States in the post-war world. Also, American University has already announced special summer courses to train government employees in speaking foreign languages fluently so that they may be enabled to better participate in the inter-government relationships of the present and future.

The time to act on this project is now, and I urge that it be studied promptly.

May 16, 1943.

Following the presentation of the foregoing paper, and a general discussion of the matter, Presid Newcomb presented the following paper that he had prepared on the establishment of the school:

Events of the recent past seem to point inevitably to increasing participation of the United States in world affairs. It is therefore obvious that we have and shall continue to have, for reasons of national self-interest among others, a vital role to play in world reconstruction and rehabilitation, the establishment and maintenance of world peace, world trade and finance; in fact, in all aspects of the mutual exchange on an international basis of ideas, goods, and services. New opportunities and needs, in addition to those of the past, are constantly arising. Consider, for example, the possibilities in the new fields of international journalism and transportation, or the interchange of the progress and results of scientific research and inventions.

The field is vast, varied and vital. The best interest of our nation demands specially trained men, in its manifold departments of international relations; and the young man who seeks a career in non-governmental service that involves contacts with foreign countries must possess that general background and specialized equipment which will be conducive to his success.

Of equal importance is the education of at least a segment of the American public in the meaning and responsibilities of its participation in world organization for peace. To participate intelligently and effectively we must have at least a nucleus of public opinion that is conversant with the historical background of world affairs, a grasp of the world's economic problems, a sympathetic and tolerant understanding of the view-points of other nations, and a knowledge of civilizations and cultures other than one's own. All of this represents a liberal education in itself.

With the objectives then of preparing young men for careers in the foreign services of the government, or in non-governmental foreign service, and also of offering a well-balanced educational program in international affairs for its own sake, the University of Virginia is establishing a SCHOOL OF FOREIGN SERVICE AND INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS. To meet these objectives it is believed that two conditions are essential:

1st. The student must first be broadly educated in the basic liberal arts subjects.

2nd. The specialized curriculum should be inclusive enough and flexible enough to permit him to frame a program to suit his individual tastes and needs.

For the purpose of fulfilling these conditions all students in the School, during their first two years, will be required to take the basic liberal arts courses leading to the degree of Bachelor of Arts. These are English, Mathematics, Science, and Foreign Languages. In addition, they will be required to take certain general college courses whose presentation will be oriented to the special needs of their advanced program. These are History, Economics, American Government and Human Geography.

The advanced program of the last two years, constituting the field of concentration, will be articulated from the courses listed in the following section. There will be a large measure of selection and flexibility in framing the program of concentration, but the whole must represent a comprehensive unit meeting the requirements for the degree of Bachelor of Arts. This program, of course, will be formulated under the advice and guidance of advisers in the School.

The normal time for the completion of the program for the Bachelor's degree is four years. It may happen, however, that a student will wish to prepare himself further by taking more courses than could be fitted into his degree program. In this case he may stay on for a fifth year and do one of two things: frame a program from the remaining courses that will meet the requirements of the degree of Master of Arts, or take a number of the courses that will be useful for his future career but which do not meet the degree requirements.

As stated above, the required subjects in liberal arts of the first two years will be presented in the traditional manner, but others in this group, such as History, Economics, Human Geography and American Government, will be oriented in the direction of the special needs of the School. The History course outlines the rise of the democratic ideal, its growth, development and struggles, and its outstanding personalities and documents, with particular emphasis on the roots and traditions of American democracy. The course in geography will describe the main geographical areas of the world, their resources, needs, and mutual economic relations, with special reference to the place of the United States in the world picture. The course in Economics will be the Principles of Economics, with an orientation towards international economic problems and American Economics projected against the world scene. The course in American government is just what the name implies. All these courses are designed to aid in the formation of a loyal citizen of his own country and an enlightened citizen of the world.

Every student will study for four years one of the major modern foreign languages. He will also be required to devote one summer, here or elsewhere, to intensive study of the language exclusively, in order to obtain a highly efficient practical command of it. The fourth year of language is devoted to a study of the civilization and culture of the area of which it is representative.

The program of concentration for the last two years, and the fifth year, when desired, will be formulated from among the following:

American History

European History

Latin-American History

The British Empire

Russia, Political, Social and Economic

Canada, Economic and Social History

Far Eastern History and Government

International Relations

American Foreign Policy

Inter-American Relations

Comparative Government

International Organization

International and Maritime Law

Constitutional Law of the United States

Diplomatic History of the United States

Diplomatic Practice

International Economics

Money and Banking

Commercial Law

Accounting

Statistics

The organization of the School falls into two categories: The policy-making body and the instructional staff. The policy-making body is to be composed of a group of twelve outstanding men in the fields of international affairs, such as diplomacy, finance, commerce, transportation, communications, journalism, education, etc. It is to be headed by a Chairman who shall be at the same time the Director of the School, in general charge of its functioning and responsible for putting into practice the policies formulated by the Board.

The instructional staff of the School will be chosen from among the members of the University faculty, with such additions as are essential, organized into a closely integrated and independent teaching unit for the purposes of the School, under the leadership of a faculty chairman who shall also serve as Assistant to the Director. In this way the School, while still a corporate part of the University body, and enjoying all the facilities offered by the University, will in a large measure constitute an independent, closely knit entity with certain characteristic features all its own. The regular classroom instruction will be supplemented with frequent lectures by experts and distinguished figures in the several fields of international affairs.

The courses of the first two years will be taught by the traditional classroom methods. In the last two years, however, classes will be divided into small groups for the purpose of individualizing instruction and promoting individual initiative and discussion, and the tutorial method will be followed wherever practicable. One feature of the final year will be the preparation of a paper on some subject within the student's field of interest, designed to aid the student in synthesizing his knowledge of it, and to demonstrate his grasp of it, as well as to train him in the methods of gathering materials and the effective presentation of them.

The University of Virginia presents certain characteristics which render it the ideal location for such a School. It is situated close to Washington, the center of the political and diplomatic life of the Nation, with its rich libraries and archives offering easy access for trips of observation, investigation and research, and at the same time making readily available experts and distinguished diplomatic and political personalities for lectures here. The interest in international affairs of its great founder, Thomas Jefferson, who in his plan for the University contemplated a School of Diplomacy, is still a strong tradition here. In the course of its existence many former students and others closely connected with its early life have been prominent figures in the field of International Affairs. Among them might be mentioned James Madison, James Monroe (for whom the James Monroe School of International Law at the University is named) Thomas Nelson Page, W. W. Yen of China, John Bassett Moore, Woodrow Wilson, and Edward R. Stettinius.

The University of Virginia offers the student of this School all the resources and facilities of a great University with a rich heritage of tradition and a wide and honorable prestige. His degree will be a recognized one from a recognized institution of learning.

There is already on hand an adequate faculty and a majority of the essential courses. Plans are already under way to supplement the staff so that the few courses not now being given may be offered in the near future. The University possesses a fine Library, containing a large collection of books on International Affairs, and funds are being raised to enrich it still further. The University is likewise the fortunate possessor of the John Bassett Moore Library of International Law and Diplomacy, a priceless collection gathered together by that distinguished figure in diplomacy and presented by him to his Alma Mater.

Following a general discussion of the matter, the following motion by Mr. Garnett was adopted:

RESOLVED, that the President's paper be adopted as the expression of our purposes, and that the School of Foreign Service and International Affairs be established, and that it be opened to first year students on July 2, 1945.

RESOLVED, further that the President be authorized to give publicity to its establishment, and

RESOLVED, further, that the Special Committee of the Alumni Board of Managers be thanked for their assistance in the establishment of the school.

On motion the meeting then adjourned.

In regard to the proposed School of Foreign Service and International Affairs at the University of Virginia, the Board of Managers of the University of Virginia Alumni Association respectfully submits for your consideration the following:

1\. The establishment of this School was proposed by Mr. Edward R. Stettinius, Jr., a member of our Board of Visitors and now Secretary of State, in a memorandum dated March 16, 1943, addressed to the Rector and the President of the University. As that memorandum states the proposition so well and forcefully we are taking the liberty of attaching a copy of the same hereto. We think it is in order to state that the interest of Mr. Stettinius in this School has not abated. On February 28, 1945, he addressed a letter from Mexico City to a member of this Committee in which he said, "I agree entirely that the time is slipping away from us and if we are really to be effective in establishing a School of Foreign Service at the University it should be done immediately. As a matter of fact, from my talk with you, you will recall that I thought it should have been done at the time of my original memorandum in 1942, a copy of which I gave you."

2\. At a meeting of the Board of Managers of the Alumni Association on February 3, 1945, the following two resolutions were adopted:

"It was moved, seconded and unanimously carried that the Alumni Association make $10,000.00 available if necessary, to advance the proposed School of Foreign Service, to be used for such purposes as may seem most desirable in the judgment of the Board of Managers. This commitment is contingent upon the announcement of this School by July 1, 1945.

"It was moved, seconded and unanimously carried that President Henry appoint a committee to request that a meeting of the Board of Visitors be called at an early date to consider the prompt establishment of the School of Foreign Service. The Board suggested that President Henry should be a member of this Committee.

3\. The able committee appointed by Dr. Newcomb to study the feasibility of establishing the School of which Dr. L. G. Moffatt of the School of Romance Languages is Chairman, has made its report. This report goes into all phases of the School including its purpose, nature of course of study, curriculum, organization and plan of instruction and a "conclusion" of which a copy is attached.

4\. It is a well-recognized fact that many attribute the lack of efficiency on the part of some engaged in diplomatic, consular and foreign service to inadequate preparation. It is obvious that the United States must and will take an ever greater and greater part in the affairs of the world. We quote the following from an article about Mr. Stettinius by Bob Considine in the Reader's Digest of March, 1945:

"He has a young man's outlook on the world. He believes we should train diplomats and foreign-service men as we train midshipmen and cadets, and he will recruit young blood until such a school develops."

5\. We can think of no University or place of instruction better suited for such a School than the University of Virginia. The fact that many other institutions are planning for the same sort of instruction shows the tremendous interest in and need for a broad and special training to equip suitable persons for this field of services. We understand that already many inquiries have come to the University in regard to this School by persons interested in entering themselves or their sons.

6\. We respectfully urge the prompt announcement of this School, notwithstanding the fact that it may be impossible to adequately supply the personnel of its faculty and directors now. We are convinced that everyone believes that such a School should be established at the University of Virginia. In the opinion of this Committee and of all with whom we have talked the feeling is that such a School at the University of Virginia in the language of the street would be a "natural".

7\. We appreciate the privilege of appearing before the Board of Visitors. We trust that our enthusiasm and zeal for this object will not be misconstrued and that we will not be thought of as stepping beyond the limits of our proper concern. The Alumni Association is increasing in strength and effectiveness from year to year. We believe that we are representative of the general alumni. This substantial contribution which the Association offers out of its comparatively small but increasing reserves is tangible evidence of the sincerity of our interest in this undertaking. In addition to this sum we feel quite sure that the sum of $35,000.00 for the Library for International Studies will be raised by the Association as a party of the Alumni Fund. We also understand that a committee of Alumni are thinking in terms of much greater support in money and prestige. The prompt announcement of this School will in our opinion accomplish indirects effects as great or greater than the direct results from the School itself.

The Committee has also asked the President of the Association, Mr. Henry, to present in a few words the general status and objectives of the Alumni Association and to let the Administration and the Board know that the Association is doing its best and hopes to do better for the good of the University of Virginia.

In regard to the proposed School of Foreign Service and International Affairs at the University of Virginia, the Board of Managers of the University of Virginia Alumni Association respectfully submits for your consideration the following:

1\. The establishment of this School was proposed by Mr. Edward R. Stettinius, Jr., a member of our Board of Visitors and now Secretary of State, in a memorandum dated March 16, 1943, addressed to the Rector and the President of the University. As that memorandum states the proposition so well and forcefully we are taking the liberty of attaching a copy of the same hereto. We think it is in order to state that the interest of Mr. Stettinius in this School has not abated. On February 28, 1945, he addressed a letter from Mexico City to a member of this Committee in which he said, "I agree entirely that the time is slipping away from us and if we are really to be effective in establishing a School of Foreign Service at the University it should be done immediately. As a matter of fact, from my talk with you, you will recall that I thought it should have been done at the time of my original memorandum in 1942, a copy of which I gave you."

2\. At a meeting of the Board of Managers of the Alumni Association on February 3, 1945, the following two resolutions were adopted:

"It was moved, seconded and unanimously carried that the Alumni Association make $10,000.00 available if necessary, to advance the proposed School of Foreign Service, to be used for such purposes as may seem most desirable in the judgment of the Board of Managers. This commitment is contingent upon the announcement of this School by July 1, 1945.

"It was moved, seconded and unanimously carried that President Henry appoint a committee to request that a meeting of the Board of Visitors be called at an early date to consider the prompt establishment of the School of Foreign Service. The Board suggested that President Henry should be a member of this Committee.

3\. The able committee appointed by Dr. Newcomb to study the feasibility of establishing the School of which Dr. L. G. Moffatt of the School of Romance Languages is Chairman, has made its report. This report goes into all phases of the School including its purpose, nature of course of study, curriculum, organization and plan of instruction and a "conclusion" of which a copy is attached.

4\. It is a well-recognized fact that many attribute the lack of efficiency on the part of some engaged in diplomatic, consular and foreign service to inadequate preparation. It is obvious that the United States must and will take an ever greater and greater part in the affairs of the world. We quote the following from an article about Mr. Stettinius by Bob Considine in the Reader's Digest of March, 1945:

"He has a young man's outlook on the world. He believes we should train diplomats and foreign-service men as we train midshipmen and cadets, and he will recruit young blood until such a school develops."

5\. We can think of no University or place of instruction better suited for such a School than the University of Virginia. The fact that many other institutions are planning for the same sort of instruction shows the tremendous interest in and need for a broad and special training to equip suitable persons for this field of services. We understand that already many inquiries have come to the University in regard to this School by persons interested in entering themselves or their sons.

6\. We respectfully urge the prompt announcement of this School, notwithstanding the fact that it may be impossible to adequately supply the personnel of its faculty and directors now. We are convinced that everyone believes that such a School should be established at the University of Virginia. In the opinion of this Committee and of all with whom we have talked the feeling is that such a School at the University of Virginia in the language of the street would be a "natural".

7\. We appreciate the privilege of appearing before the Board of Visitors. We trust that our enthusiasm and zeal for this object will not be misconstrued and that we will not be thought of as stepping beyond the limits of our proper concern. The Alumni Association is increasing in strength and effectiveness from year to year. We believe that we are representative of the general alumni. This substantial contribution which the Association offers out of its comparatively small but increasing reserves is tangible evidence of the sincerity of our interest in this undertaking. In addition to this sum we feel quite sure that the sum of $35,000.00 for the Library for International Studies will be raised by the Association as a party of the Alumni Fund. We also understand that a committee of Alumni are thinking in terms of much greater support in money and prestige. The prompt announcement of this School will in our opinion accomplish indirects effects as great or greater than the direct results from the School itself.

The Committee has also asked the President of the Association, Mr. Henry, to present in a few words the general status and objectives of the Alumni Association and to let the Administration and the Board know that the Association is doing its best and hopes to do better for the good of the University of Virginia.