 TEI to HTML

RESIGNATION OF MRS. CALCOTTGIFTSDEATH OF PROFESSOR GARRARD GLENNLEAVE OF ABSENCEPROMOTIONSELECTIONSHERMITAGE FOUNDATIONASSIGNMENT OF LAWN AND RANGE ROOMSCABELL HALLCOCKE HALLDEVELOPMENT FUNDMINUTES OF THE BOARDINCREASE IN EXTENSION FEESSCHEDULE A RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA SCHEDULE OF CORRESPONDENCE COURSES PROVIDED UNDER CONTRACT AND CHARGES THEREFORMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSREPORT ON HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONSMAXIMUM DORMITORY CAPACITYDORMITORIESLEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR PRESIDENT COMBSHEAD OF SPANISH DEPARTMENT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mr. Edward C. Giles, to be used for the McIntire Tumor Clinic

$ 200.00

From the United States Public Health Service, a grant to Dr. Alfred Chanutin for the year 1949 for "fractionation studies on plasmas of patients with cancer"

11,880.00

Catalogue No. and Title

Semester Hours Credit

Number of Lessons

Charge for Instruction

Charge per Lesson

Estimated Charge for Books, Supplies and Equipment

Registration Fee

Estimated Total Charge

Biblical Literature B1-I

2

17

$11.00

$0.59

$ 9.00

$3.00

$23.00

Biblical Literature B1-II

2

17

11.00

.59

8.50

3.00

22.50

Biblical Literature B1-III

2

17

11.00

.59

6.75

3.00

20.75

Economic Geography B1-I

2

17

11.00

.59

5.50

3.00

19.50

Economic Geography B1-II

2

17

11.00

.59

4.75

3.00

18.75

Economic Geography B1-III

2

17

11.00

.59

8.00

3.00

22.00

Economics B1-I

2

17

11.00

.59

4.50

3.00

18.50

Economics B1-II

2

17

11.00

.59

4.00

3.00

18.00

Economics B1-III

2

17

11.00

.59

3.00

3.00

17.00

Economics HS-19

3

25

16.50

.60

4.50

3.00

24.00

Education HS-1

3

25

16.50

.60

11.65\* \*Text books—Education HS-1 — Wilde, Foundations of Modern Education, 1936 edition, Farrar-Rinehart, N. Y., $3.25, Cubberley, Readings in the History of Education, 1920 edition, Houghton-Mifflin, N. Y., $3.90; Mulhern, A History of Education, Ronald Press, N. Y., $4.50.Religion HS-2 — Smith & Goodspeed, The Bible, An American Translation, University of Chicago Press, $3.00; Bewer, The Literature of the Old Testament, 1937 edition, $3.50; Bailey & Kent, History of the Hebrew Commonwealth, $2.50, University of Chicago Press; Scott, The Literature of the New Testament, Columbia University Press, $3.00.Rural Social Economics HS-10— Hesseltine, The South in American History, Prentice-Hall, N. Y., 1947, $4.50; Vance, All These People, University of North Carolina Press, Chapel Hill, 1945, $5.00. Haynes, Southern Horizons, $2.75.

3.00

31.15

Education HS-2

3

25

16.50

.60

7.00

3.00

26.50

Education B2-III

2

17

11.00

.59

4.50

3.00

18.50

Education HS-4

2

17

11.00

.59

8.00

3.00

22.00

Education HS-16

3

25

16.50

.60

6.75

3.00

26.25

English A1-I

2

17

11.00

1.00

3.05

3.00

17.05

English A1-II

2

17

11.00

.59

5.80

3.00

19.80

English A1-III

2

17

11.00

.59

5.80

3.00

19.80

English B6-I

2

17

11.00

.59

1.25

3.00

15.25

English B6-II

2

17

11.00

.59

1.25

3.00

15.25

English B6-III

2

17

11.00

.59

1.25

3.00

15.25

English 16

2

17

11.00

.59

3.00

3.00

17.00

Foreign Affairs Hs-1

3

25

16.50

.60

7.50

3.00

27.00

History B3-II

2

17

11.00

.59

1.25

3.00

15.25

History B3-III

2

17

11.00

.59

4.00

3.00

18.00

History HS-7

3

25

16.50

.60

5.00

3.00

24.50

History HS-8

3

25

16.50

.60

5.00

3.00

24.50

Mathematics HS-1

3

25

16.50

.60

5.40

3.00

24.90

Mathematics HS-2

3

25

16.50

.60

2.00

3.00

21.50

Psychology 1b

3

25

16.50

.60

3.00

3.00

22.50

Religion HS-1

3

25

16.50

.60

8.00

3.00

27.50

Religion HS-2

3

25

16.50

.60

12.00\* \*Text books—Education HS-1 — Wilde, Foundations of Modern Education, 1936 edition, Farrar-Rinehart, N. Y., $3.25, Cubberley, Readings in the History of Education, 1920 edition, Houghton-Mifflin, N. Y., $3.90; Mulhern, A History of Education, Ronald Press, N. Y., $4.50.Religion HS-2 — Smith & Goodspeed, The Bible, An American Translation, University of Chicago Press, $3.00; Bewer, The Literature of the Old Testament, 1937 edition, $3.50; Bailey & Kent, History of the Hebrew Commonwealth, $2.50, University of Chicago Press; Scott, The Literature of the New Testament, Columbia University Press, $3.00.Rural Social Economics HS-10— Hesseltine, The South in American History, Prentice-Hall, N. Y., 1947, $4.50; Vance, All These People, University of North Carolina Press, Chapel Hill, 1945, $5.00. Haynes, Southern Horizons, $2.75.

3.00

31.50

Rural Social Eco. HS-1

3

25

16.50

.60

6.00

3.00

25.50

Rural Social Eco. HS-2

3

25

16.50

.60

8.00

3.00

27.50

Rural Social Eco. B1-III

2

17

11.00

.59

5.60

3.00

19.60

Rural Social Eco. HS-9

3

25

16.50

.60

9.50

3.00

29.00

Rural Social Eco. HS-10

3

25

16.50

.60

12.25\*

3.00

31.75

Sociology 3

3

25

16.50

.60

3.75

3.00

23.25

Sociology B3-I

2

17

11.00

.59

1.75

3.00

15.75

Sociology B3-II

2

17

11.00

.59

2.50

3.00

16.50

Sociology B3-IIIa

2

17

11.00

.59

4.25

3.00

18.25

Dormitory

Quantity of Rooms Per Bldg

Number Students Per Building

Vacancies 2-10-49

Betty Lewis

22

93

9

Cornell

33

93

9

Framar

8

24

4

Framar

4

9

\-

Frances Willard

91

295

25

Home Management House

4

9

2

Margaret Brent

7

20

\-

Marye

10

22

1

Trench Hill

10

26

11

Tri-Unit

Mary Ball

58

132

4

Custis

24

52

2

Madison

24

52

2

Virginia

100

262

25

Westmoreland

55

122

2

(Hamlet House)

10

17

1

Infirmary

2

3

3

TOTAL

462

1,231

100

200

now living in city homes

200

now living in rented buildings

300

in limiting rooms to two occupants

700

The regular monthly meeting of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 10 o'clock in the Office of the President of Mary Washington College, Fredericksburg, Virginia, with the following present: President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; President M. L. Combs of Mary Washington College; Visitors Black, Garnett, Gay, Gravatt, Mears, Wailes, and Willis. Absent: Visitors Anderson, Barksdale, Carrington, Miller, Stettinius, and Trout.

In the absence of the Rector, Mr. Garnett was elected Rector pro tempore.

The minutes of the meeting of January 14, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President reported that in a letter of January 17, 1949 to the Governor, Mrs. A. O. Calcott had submitted her resignation as a member of the Board of Visitors of the University.

The President announced the following gifts:

The President reported the death on January 25, 1949 of Mr. Garrard Glenn, Professor of Law at the University since 1929.

Mr. Gay moved that the Rector appoint a committee of three to prepare appropriate resolutions of regret in the cases of Mrs. Calcott and Mr. Glenn. The motion was passed

Mr. Wayne Alexander Wallace, Assistant Professor of Geography, granted leave of absence without pay for the second semester of the session of 1948-49 in order to take graduate work towards the Ph.D. degree.

Dr. Truman A. Botts, from Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, effective at the beginning of the session of 1949-50.

Admiral Heman Judd Redfield from Acting Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering to Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective at the beginning of the session of 1949-50.

Dr. R. H. Bing as Acting Professor of Mathematics for the session of 1949-50 at a session salary of $6,075.00, replacing Dr. E. J. McShane, who will be on leave of absence during next session.

Dr. Edwin Earl Floyd as Assistant Professor of Mathematics at a session salary of $3,510, effective at the beginning of the session of 1949-50.

Mr. Victor LaRue Klee, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Mathematics at a session salary of $3,510.00, effective at the beginning of the session of 1949-50.

Mr. Lionel Weiss as Assistant Professor of Statistics at a session salary of $3,930, effective at the beginning of the session of 1949-50.

Mr. Carl McFarland as Visiting Lecturer in Law for the second semester of the session of 1948-49, at a salary of $1,000.

Mr. George A. Bevan as part-time Lecturer in Geography for the second semester of the session of 1948-49 at a salary of $1,200.00.

Dr. Eric Fischer as part-time Lecturer in Geography for the second semester of the session of 1948-49 at a salary of $500.00.

Mr. Darden stated that thus far the faculty had not been able to find a suitable man in sculpture. The applicants interviewed to date do not have the educational background which the President feels necessary.

Mr. Darden stated that he did not feel the Board should make a commitment to Mrs. Sloane until the General Assembly approves an appropriation for the School of Fine Arts. Mr. Black moved that the President write to Mrs. Sloane, giving her a statement setting forth the recommendations, spread in the minutes of the November 1947 meeting, of the Special Committee appointed by the Dean of the College to propose a program of fine arts.

It was the sense of the Board that the President should include this proposal in his next biennial budget requests to the Legislature.

The President recommended that the rooms on the Lawn and Ranges should be awarded to students on the basis of scholarship and leadership. The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the regulations now in force requiring residents of Lawn and Range rooms to be Virginians be rescinded, and that the President be and he is hereby authorized to set up regulations for assignment of these rooms.

The President stated that he had discussed with Mr. Stern of the Art Commission the plans for the extension of Cabell Hall to provide classrooms for the College. Mr. Stern had informed the President that there was some sentiment in the Art Commission about the building of an addition to Cabell Hall which would "freeze" the present architectural layout of the Lawn. The Art Commission had hoped that Cabell Hall might someday be torn down and the Lawn restored to the original plan of Jefferson.

Mr. Darden asked the Board for an expression of opinion on the above matter, stating that he felt very strongly that it was important to tie the College to the Lawn, and that this could be done only by joining the new Academic Building to Cabell Hall so that students would walk along the Lawn passing to and from classes. He stated that if the Academic Building were constructed out beyond the Engineering School, few of the three thousand students in the College would have any occasion to visit the Lawn, because they would go from the Academic Building to the dormitories and to the Library. He stated that he believed the Lawn was the heart of the University and that every effort should be made to anchor the College to this most beautiful academic village in the world.

The Board unanimously endorsed the sentiments expressed by the President and stated that it was the sense of the Board that the present plans for the development of Cabell Hall as the academic center of the College would best serve the future interests of the University.

The Secretary called to the attention of the Board a resolution, adopted January 21, 1939, that the old Engineering Building, formerly called the Mechanical Laboratory, be designated The John Hartwell Cocke Hall. He pointed out that the lettering on the exterior of the building had never been changed, and the Board thereupon approved the lettering for the exterior of the building to read "COCKE HALL."

The President stated that a long-term policy for the Development Fund should be worked out by July 1, 1949. The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Special Committee on the Development Fund be requested to consider the matter of formulating a long-range program for the Development Fund and to make recommendations to the Board.

A request from Mr. Harry Taylor for permission to peruse the minutes of the Board was presented. It was moved that Mr. Taylor be advised that the Secretary of the Board will provide him with copies of resolutions on any subject he desires.

A proposal by the Extension Division to increase fees for Home Study courses in accordance with the general increase in University fees which was effective for the 1949-50 session was approved, as set out in the following schedule.

Text books—

Education HS-1 — Wilde, Foundations of Modern Education, 1936 edition, Farrar-Rinehart, N. Y., $3.25, Cubberley, Readings in the History of Education, 1920 edition, Houghton-Mifflin, N. Y., $3.90; Mulhern, A History of Education, Ronald Press, N. Y., $4.50.

Religion HS-2 — Smith & Goodspeed, The Bible, An American Translation, University of Chicago Press, $3.00; Bewer, The Literature of the Old Testament, 1937 edition, $3.50; Bailey & Kent, History of the Hebrew Commonwealth, $2.50, University of Chicago Press; Scott, The Literature of the New Testament, Columbia University Press, $3.00.

Rural Social Economics HS-10— Hesseltine, The South in American History, Prentice-Hall, N. Y., 1947, $4.50; Vance, All These People, University of North Carolina Press, Chapel Hill, 1945, $5.00. Haynes, Southern Horizons, $2.75.

Text books—

Education HS-1 — Wilde, Foundations of Modern Education, 1936 edition, Farrar-Rinehart, N. Y., $3.25, Cubberley, Readings in the History of Education, 1920 edition, Houghton-Mifflin, N. Y., $3.90; Mulhern, A History of Education, Ronald Press, N. Y., $4.50.

Religion HS-2 — Smith & Goodspeed, The Bible, An American Translation, University of Chicago Press, $3.00; Bewer, The Literature of the Old Testament, 1937 edition, $3.50; Bailey & Kent, History of the Hebrew Commonwealth, $2.50, University of Chicago Press; Scott, The Literature of the New Testament, Columbia University Press, $3.00.

Rural Social Economics HS-10— Hesseltine, The South in American History, Prentice-Hall, N. Y., 1947, $4.50; Vance, All These People, University of North Carolina Press, Chapel Hill, 1945, $5.00. Haynes, Southern Horizons, $2.75.

As requested by the Board at the January meeting, President Combs presented a report on housing accommodations at Mary Washington College, as follows

President Combs stated that Mary Washington College loses 10 or 12 students in the first two weeks of the first semester, and by the end of the first semester 60 to 100 have resigned. To insure adequate filling of the dormitories, three students are placed in each room at the start of the year. Dormitory space is now needed for 700 students, as follows:

This will greatly increase the cost of operation.

Mrs. Wailes stated that the Mary Washington College Committee is making no recommendation at this time about dormitory construction, but hopes that the next Legislature will appropriate fifty per cent of the cost of a dormitory for 300. The enrollment of Virginia students is now about fifty per cent, and the number of Virginians is decreasing each year.

President Combs stated that the last State appropriation for dormitories was in 1914, and that the students had largely paid for the buildings at Mary Washington College.

The Board approved a leave of absence for President Combs to visit South America.

Dr. Clifton Breeke McIntosh, Associate Professor of Spanish and Portuguese at Mary Washington College, appeared before the Beard concerning the appointment of Professor Louis J. Cabrera as Chairman of the Spanish Department. Mr. Gay moved that the Rector appoint a sub-committee to investigate the questions raised by Dr. McIntosh, and report to the Board. The Committee so appointed consists of Mr. Black as Chairman, Mr. Mears, and Mr. Gay.

There being no further business to come before the meeting, the same was adjourned after a motion to that effect had been made, seconded, and carried.