 TEI to HTML

APPOINTMENT OF DOWELL J. HOWARDENROLLMENTGIFTSDEATH OF DR. C. M. GILBERTRESIGNATIONELECTIONSUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSPATENT ON INVENTION OF DR. V. W. ARCHERACCOMPLISHMENTS OF FACULTY MEMBERSCAPITAL OUTLAY REQUESTS 1950-52UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CAPITAL OUTLAY REQUESTS 1950-52 BIENNIUMBRICK FOR MEN'S DORMITORIESTUITION FOR OUT-OF-STATE STUDENTSLEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR PRESIDENT DARDENREQUIREMENTS FOR BACHELOR'S DEGREEREPORT OF FINANCE COMMITTEER. E. SMITHER SCHOLARSHIP PROPOSALLABURNUM REALTY CORPORATIONREPORT OF ATHLETIC COMMITTEEBUDGET REQUESTS FOR LAW SCHOOL 1950-52MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSBOND ISSUESINCREASE IN TUITION AND FEES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

College

2,732

Graduate

438

Education

258

Engineering

474

Law

555

Medicine

276

Total

4,733

From The Upjohn Company, in support of research investigations to be conducted by Dr. William Parson

$3,000.00

From the Virginia-Carolina Chemical Corporation, for a fellowship in chemistry under Dr. Alfred Burger, for the year 1949-50

1,000.00

From the American Philosophical Society, for the construction of a photoelectric photometer

750.00

From the United States Public Health Service, for continued research by Dr. Chalmers L. Gemmill

9,093.00

From the estate of the late Lloyd Church, of New York, for the general uses of the University

5,000.00

University Division

Equipment

Furnishings for Dormitories

$167,200

Furnishings for Academic Building

58,500

Equipment for Physics Building

120,000

Furnishings for Women's Dormitory

31,500

Equipment for Life Science Building

250,000

Equipment for Chemistry Building

150,000

Law Books

25,000

Total for Equipment

$ 802,200

Structures

Life Science Building

$1,000,000

Completion of Physics Building

450,000

Reconditioning Cabell Hall

100,000

Power Plant Addition

332,500

Chemistry Building

2,000,000

Storm Sewers

45,000

Reconditioning Rouss Laboratory

100,000

Reconditioning Pavilion VII, West Lawn

5,000

Total for Structures

4,032,500

GRAND TOTAL FOR UNIVERSITY DIVISION

$4,834,700

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present: The Rector, Barron F. Black; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College; Visitors Anderson, Barksdale, Carrington, Gay, Gravatt, Howard, Mears, Smith, Talbott, Wailes, and Willis. Absent: Visitors Garnett and Trout.

The minutes of the meeting of September 9, 1949, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

Mr. Dowell J. Howard, appointed Acting Superintendent of Public Instruction by Governor Tuck on August 31, 1949, was present for this meeting.

The President reported the present enrollment of the University, as follows

The President announced receipt of the following gifts

Dr. Chauncey McLean Gilbert, Associate Professor of Biology, died October 2, 1949. He had been on the staff of the University since 1933.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED that the resignation of Dr. Clinton Joseph Davisson, Visiting Professor of Physics, be and the same is hereby accepted, effective at the end of the session of 1948-49. The Board wishes to thank him for his service to the University and to wish for him many years of happiness in his retirement.

Upon recommendation of the President, the following elections were approved

Mr. Giovanni Previtali as Instructor in Spanish for the session of 1949-50, at a salary of $3,000

Mr. Avery Catlin as Instructor in Engineering for the session of 1949-50, at a salary of $3,000

Mr. Marvin J. Powell as Instructor in Engineering for the session of 1949-50, at a salary of $3,000.

The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED that approval be and is hereby given to the charging off of schedules 78-B, 78-C, 80 and 81 of uncollectible hospital accounts, aggregating $22,118.31, which are recommended for cancellation by the Hospital Accounts Committee.

Dr. Ivey F. Lewis, Chairman of the Committee on Patent Policy of the University, made a report to the Board, the substance of which is as follows -

That Dr. Vincent W. Archer, Professor of Roentgenology, has made application for a patent on protective clothing for x-ray operatives, the material to be used being described by the term- "Radiant Energy Opaque Fabric".

The need for such a fabric is urgent and as the details of procuring and protecting the patent, of manufacturing the fabric, and licensing its use are highly technical and require specialized and efficient management such as no department of the University is qualified to supply, the Patent Policy Committee, with the approval of Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, requested the service of Research Corporation, a non-profit corporation organized under the laws of the State of New York, which makes a specialty of work of this character, and after three lengthy conferences with Mr. S. Blake Yates, a representative of Research Corporation, has finally agreed upon a form of contract between the University and Research and also a form of contract between Research and Dr. Vincent W. Archer.

The contract in form finally agreed upon by your Committee and Research and approved by W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, is hereby presented to this Board with the unanimous recommendation of the Committee on Patent Policy of the University that said contract in its present form be executed on behalf of the University and delivered to Research for execution by it.

After a discussion of the situation, the following resolution, offered by Judge Barksdale and seconded by Mr. Mears, was adopted-

RESOLVED That Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, be and is hereby authorized and directed to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and in triplicate, the contract dated October 14, 1949, between the University and Research Corporation in the form presented to this meeting by Dr. Ivey F. Lewis, Chairman of the Patent Policy Committee of the University, and that Vincent Shea, Secretary, be and is hereby instructed to affix the corporate seal thereto, attest the same and deliver said contract to Research Corporation for execution on its behalf, this action being taken pursuant to report made to this meeting by Dr. Lewis, Chairman of the Patent Policy Committee as aforesaid, that said contract in the form submitted has been thoroughly studied by this Committee and approved by said Committee and by W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University

A resolution was adopted requesting the Rector to appoint a committee to keep informed of the accomplishments of members of the faculty and to make appropriate recommendations to the Board when such accomplishments should have recognition by the Board

The Board gave approval to the following requests for capital outlay funds totaling $4,834,700 for the University Division for the biennium 1950-52

Action on a request for $9,000,000 to expand the present Hospital and Medical School was deferred pending investigation of the feasibility of establishing an entirely new Medical Center. The Rector was asked to appoint a committee to study this problem and to report to the Board at its December meeting.

The President stated that in the past the Board had examined panels of brick in order to decide which should be used in construction of new buildings. The Rector stated that he believed this was a field in which the Board should rely on the President and his advisors. A resolution was adopted approving the recommendations of the architects, Eggers and Higgins.

The question of a general increase in tuition charges assessed against out-of-state students was presented. Action was deferred until the next meeting, and the Secretary was asked to secure data on tuition charges in the various departments of the following institutions

University of Alabama

Harvard University

University of Maryland

University of North Carolina

University of Pennsylvania

Princeton University

Tulane University

Washington and Lee University

Yale University

President Darden stated that he had been requested by the American Association of Universities to serve on a committee which will represent the Association at a conference to be held at New Delhi, India, in December. He requested leave of absence to attend this conference, and the request was granted

Mr. Gay stated that he had requested the President to furnish him with a list of the required courses for the bachelor's degree, and that nowhere on this list is there a course in American history or government. Mr. Gay feels it is essential that each student be required to take a course in American history before receiving a baccalaureate degree. The Rector was asked to appoint a committee of three to meet with the President and such members of the faculty as the President feels desirable, to study the feasibility of including a course in American history and government as a prerequisite for the bachelor's degree

The Finance Committee presented a report to the Board, as follows, which was approved

The extent to which the Consolidated Endowment Fund is invested in marketable securities (presently aggregating the sum of $5,495,674.01) is annually reported to the Board by your Committee, and officers of its Custodian and Investment Counsel, the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, appear and personally review such investments in order that a full understanding may be had by the Board of the manner in which the Endowment Fund is being handled.

So much of the Consolidated Endowment Fund as is invested in mortgage loans is not, however, handled through the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, but under an agreement with The Peoples National Bank of Charlottesville, acting as Custodian and service agent. A statement of the principal amounts of these mortgage loans and their maturity dates is attached hereto. It will be noted that eight of these sixteen mortgage secured loans have been made to Greek-letter fraternities having chapter houses at the University of Virginia.

Pursuant to a resolution of the Board adopted at its meeting held June 1, 1946, the interest on all fraternity loans was reduced to 4 per cent as of January 1, 1942, and counsel for the University was requested to work out new contracts with each fraternity upon the basis of the balances arrived at by the application of a formula included in that resolution. Mr. Perkins has been working steadily upon this matter, and on July 6, 1949, advised your Committee that five of the eight loans had been refinanced in accordance with the wishes of the Board, and mortgage loan papers reflecting the results of his efforts are now in the hands of The Peoples National Bank of Charlottesville

As of the date of Mr. Perkins' letter, a copy of which is attached hereto as information, new contracts had not been worked out with (1) Alpha Home Association of Chi Phi Fraternity, (2) Delta Kappa Epsilon Corporation, and (3) Omicron Chapter House Society of Phi Gamma Delta. Mr. Perkins advised your Committee on October 11th that he had just succeeded in completing the refinancing of Alpha Home Association of Chi Phi Fraternity, so that there now remain only two of these fraternity loans which have not been refinanced in the manner contemplated by the resolution of the Board of July 1, 1946.

Mr. Perkins has had a great deal of difficulty in finding responsible representatives of these fraternities with whom to undertake negotiations, or to have them represented by independent counsel, since he of course cannot function in the matter except as counsel for the University. He has been pursuing the matter vigorously, however, and your Committee hopes to be able to report shortly that each of the eight loans now made to fraternities at the University are in current and proper form.

Since this Committee was appointed by the present Rector on June 2, 1949, the following loans have been approved for the account of the Consolidated Endowment Fund

(1) Charles W. Woltz, Assistant Dean of the Law School - $16,000.00. This Committee has agreed to refinance a construction loan which Mr. Woltz will arrange with some financial institution, to be secured by a mortgage upon the residence which he proposes to construct in Meadowbrook Heights, just off Dairy Road, the loan not to exceed 60 per cent of the appraised value of the property (building and grounds) after completion of the improvements, to run for a period of not more than 15 years, to bear interest at 4-1/2 per cent, if such curtails can be made monthly in an amount not to exceed 20 per cent of Mr. Woltz's fixed income after deducting fire insurance premiums, taxes and any other financial obligations he may have incurred requiring monthly or other curtails out of his income.

(2) Delta Kappa Epsilon. This fraternity borrowed $6,000.00 in 1943 and the loan has now been reduced to $4,500.00. An increase in the loan in the amount of $3,000.00 has been approved by your Committee, making a total loan obligation of $7,500.00, provided curtails in the amount of $100.00 per month, with accrued interest, are made during each of the nine months of the college year. The fraternity house is insured for $25,000.00 and your Committee is informed is probably worth considerably in excess of that amount. The increase in the loan is to be used to make necessary repairs on the fraternity house.

Your Committee reluctantly and regretfully declined the application of Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., a Professor at the University. Professor Berkeley requested a loan of $14,000.00 to complete the construction of a residence he had been building at 1927 Thomson Road, at an estimated cost of $20,375.00. Your Committee felt that Professor Berkeley's equity in the property was not sufficient and that his earning power and probable ability to amortize the loan over a reasonable period of time had not been sufficiently shown, to warrant the making of a loan to him in the amount requested.

The Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. Thomas B. Gay, reported that Mr. R. E. Smither desired to establish a legal scholarship, giving to the University $1,000 and twenty-four acres of land near West Point, Virginia. He proposes to finance the scholarship by the sale of timber from this land at about twenty year intervals, the $1,000 being intended to pay taxes on the land. Mr. Smither stipulates that if the proposal is accepted, the land will be held permanently by the University.

The Board accepted the gift, but asked Mr. Gay to write Mr. Smither to see if a liberalization of the terms of the bequest could be secured

A request from the Laburnum Realty Corporation that the University build a warehouse in Richmond as an investment was disapproved.

Mr. Carrington, Chairman of the Athletic Committee, asked Judge Barksdale to state the position of the Committee in the matter of the National Collegiate Athletic Association regulations. Judge Barksdale replied that the Committee recommended that the University not resign from the NCAA, but that between now and January 1, 1950 a letter be prepared setting forth the position of the University in this matter.

It is the sense of the Committee that the University go to the NCAA with a positive program for changes in the Sanity Code. The Rector stated that he believed the officials of the University should consult with other institutions who feel that the NCAA regulations should be modified.

Mr. Gravatt stated it was his impression that Captain Pritchett was opposed to our associating ourselves with any club seeking to amend the NCAA Code because he believes that the NCAA will split off into regional groups. Captain Pritchett feels that it would be better for us to wait until these regional groups are organized, and then to decide which group it would be to our best advantage to join. The Rector requested the Athletic Committee to consider the following questions and to make appropriate recommendations not later than the December meeting of the Board

1\. What is our own policy going to be?

2\. What are other universities doing?

3\. How far can we go with them?

4\. Who should represent the University at the January meeting of the NCAA?

The President again presented to the Board the request made in June 1949 by the Finance Committee of the Law School Alumni Association for additional funds to supplement faculty salaries, in the amount of $20,625 per year. The Board reiterated the stand taken upon this question in June, namely, that it could not at this time endorse the request for increases in faculty salaries but hoped that some provision could be made in the future.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED, that Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized under the terms of the Acts of 1946, Chapter 127, Page 183, to issue bonds not to exceed $1,000,000 to supplement funds that have been appropriated or may hereafter be appropriated by the General Assembly for Fine Arts Building, Student Activities Building, and Infrimary, and there shall be segregated and pledged from student fees the sum of $70 per student insofar as needed for the purpose of redeeming or liquidating such bonds

The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED, that Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized to increase general college fees for all students from $140 to $170 and that the non-resident tuition fees for out of State students be increased from $220 to $280 for the session of nine months beginning with the session 1950-51.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned

The extent to which the Consolidated Endowment Fund is invested in marketable securities (presently aggregating the sum of $5,495,674.01) is annually reported to the Board by your Committee, and officers of its Custodian and Investment Counsel, the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, appear and personally review such investments in order that a full understanding may be had by the Board of the manner in which the Endowment Fund is being handled.

So much of the Consolidated Endowment Fund as is invested in mortgage loans is not, however, handled through the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, but under an agreement with The Peoples National Bank of Charlottesville, acting as Custodian and service agent. A statement of the principal amounts of these mortgage loans and their maturity dates is attached hereto. It will be noted that eight of these sixteen mortgage secured loans have been made to Greek-letter fraternities having chapter houses at the University of Virginia.

Pursuant to a resolution of the Board adopted at its meeting held June 1, 1946, the interest on all fraternity loans was reduced to 4 per cent as of January 1, 1942, and counsel for the University was requested to work out new contracts with each fraternity upon the basis of the balances arrived at by the application of a formula included in that resolution. Mr. Perkins has been working steadily upon this matter, and on July 6, 1949, advised your Committee that five of the eight loans had been refinanced in accordance with the wishes of the Board, and mortgage loan papers reflecting the results of his efforts are now in the hands of The Peoples National Bank of Charlottesville

As of the date of Mr. Perkins' letter, a copy of which is attached hereto as information, new contracts had not been worked out with (1) Alpha Home Association of Chi Phi Fraternity, (2) Delta Kappa Epsilon Corporation, and (3) Omicron Chapter House Society of Phi Gamma Delta. Mr. Perkins advised your Committee on October 11th that he had just succeeded in completing the refinancing of Alpha Home Association of Chi Phi Fraternity, so that there now remain only two of these fraternity loans which have not been refinanced in the manner contemplated by the resolution of the Board of July 1, 1946.

Mr. Perkins has had a great deal of difficulty in finding responsible representatives of these fraternities with whom to undertake negotiations, or to have them represented by independent counsel, since he of course cannot function in the matter except as counsel for the University. He has been pursuing the matter vigorously, however, and your Committee hopes to be able to report shortly that each of the eight loans now made to fraternities at the University are in current and proper form.

Since this Committee was appointed by the present Rector on June 2, 1949, the following loans have been approved for the account of the Consolidated Endowment Fund

(1) Charles W. Woltz, Assistant Dean of the Law School - $16,000.00. This Committee has agreed to refinance a construction loan which Mr. Woltz will arrange with some financial institution, to be secured by a mortgage upon the residence which he proposes to construct in Meadowbrook Heights, just off Dairy Road, the loan not to exceed 60 per cent of the appraised value of the property (building and grounds) after completion of the improvements, to run for a period of not more than 15 years, to bear interest at 4-1/2 per cent, if such curtails can be made monthly in an amount not to exceed 20 per cent of Mr. Woltz's fixed income after deducting fire insurance premiums, taxes and any other financial obligations he may have incurred requiring monthly or other curtails out of his income.

(2) Delta Kappa Epsilon. This fraternity borrowed $6,000.00 in 1943 and the loan has now been reduced to $4,500.00. An increase in the loan in the amount of $3,000.00 has been approved by your Committee, making a total loan obligation of $7,500.00, provided curtails in the amount of $100.00 per month, with accrued interest, are made during each of the nine months of the college year. The fraternity house is insured for $25,000.00 and your Committee is informed is probably worth considerably in excess of that amount. The increase in the loan is to be used to make necessary repairs on the fraternity house.

Your Committee reluctantly and regretfully declined the application of Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., a Professor at the University. Professor Berkeley requested a loan of $14,000.00 to complete the construction of a residence he had been building at 1927 Thomson Road, at an estimated cost of $20,375.00. Your Committee felt that Professor Berkeley's equity in the property was not sufficient and that his earning power and probable ability to amortize the loan over a reasonable period of time had not been sufficiently shown, to warrant the making of a loan to him in the amount requested.

The extent to which the Consolidated Endowment Fund is invested in marketable securities (presently aggregating the sum of $5,495,674.01) is annually reported to the Board by your Committee, and officers of its Custodian and Investment Counsel, the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, appear and personally review such investments in order that a full understanding may be had by the Board of the manner in which the Endowment Fund is being handled.

So much of the Consolidated Endowment Fund as is invested in mortgage loans is not, however, handled through the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, but under an agreement with The Peoples National Bank of Charlottesville, acting as Custodian and service agent. A statement of the principal amounts of these mortgage loans and their maturity dates is attached hereto. It will be noted that eight of these sixteen mortgage secured loans have been made to Greek-letter fraternities having chapter houses at the University of Virginia.

Pursuant to a resolution of the Board adopted at its meeting held June 1, 1946, the interest on all fraternity loans was reduced to 4 per cent as of January 1, 1942, and counsel for the University was requested to work out new contracts with each fraternity upon the basis of the balances arrived at by the application of a formula included in that resolution. Mr. Perkins has been working steadily upon this matter, and on July 6, 1949, advised your Committee that five of the eight loans had been refinanced in accordance with the wishes of the Board, and mortgage loan papers reflecting the results of his efforts are now in the hands of The Peoples National Bank of Charlottesville

As of the date of Mr. Perkins' letter, a copy of which is attached hereto as information, new contracts had not been worked out with (1) Alpha Home Association of Chi Phi Fraternity, (2) Delta Kappa Epsilon Corporation, and (3) Omicron Chapter House Society of Phi Gamma Delta. Mr. Perkins advised your Committee on October 11th that he had just succeeded in completing the refinancing of Alpha Home Association of Chi Phi Fraternity, so that there now remain only two of these fraternity loans which have not been refinanced in the manner contemplated by the resolution of the Board of July 1, 1946.

Mr. Perkins has had a great deal of difficulty in finding responsible representatives of these fraternities with whom to undertake negotiations, or to have them represented by independent counsel, since he of course cannot function in the matter except as counsel for the University. He has been pursuing the matter vigorously, however, and your Committee hopes to be able to report shortly that each of the eight loans now made to fraternities at the University are in current and proper form.

Since this Committee was appointed by the present Rector on June 2, 1949, the following loans have been approved for the account of the Consolidated Endowment Fund

(1) Charles W. Woltz, Assistant Dean of the Law School - $16,000.00. This Committee has agreed to refinance a construction loan which Mr. Woltz will arrange with some financial institution, to be secured by a mortgage upon the residence which he proposes to construct in Meadowbrook Heights, just off Dairy Road, the loan not to exceed 60 per cent of the appraised value of the property (building and grounds) after completion of the improvements, to run for a period of not more than 15 years, to bear interest at 4-1/2 per cent, if such curtails can be made monthly in an amount not to exceed 20 per cent of Mr. Woltz's fixed income after deducting fire insurance premiums, taxes and any other financial obligations he may have incurred requiring monthly or other curtails out of his income.

(2) Delta Kappa Epsilon. This fraternity borrowed $6,000.00 in 1943 and the loan has now been reduced to $4,500.00. An increase in the loan in the amount of $3,000.00 has been approved by your Committee, making a total loan obligation of $7,500.00, provided curtails in the amount of $100.00 per month, with accrued interest, are made during each of the nine months of the college year. The fraternity house is insured for $25,000.00 and your Committee is informed is probably worth considerably in excess of that amount. The increase in the loan is to be used to make necessary repairs on the fraternity house.

Your Committee reluctantly and regretfully declined the application of Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., a Professor at the University. Professor Berkeley requested a loan of $14,000.00 to complete the construction of a residence he had been building at 1927 Thomson Road, at an estimated cost of $20,375.00. Your Committee felt that Professor Berkeley's equity in the property was not sufficient and that his earning power and probable ability to amortize the loan over a reasonable period of time had not been sufficiently shown, to warrant the making of a loan to him in the amount requested.