 TEI to HTML

GIFTS AND GRANTSRESIGNATIONSLEAVE OF ABSENCEELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTELECTION OF RECTOR AND SECRETARYLETTERS FROM ALUMNI CHAPTERS CONCERNING ATHLETICSATHLETIC MATTERSBOWL GAME INVITATIONRICHEY STATEMENTFURTHER STATEMENT UPON THE PETITION OF ASSISTANT PROFESSOR HOMER G. RICHEY TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACONSUMER BANKERS ASSOCIATIONHOUSE G, DAWSON'S ROWESTATE OF HUGH E. VINCENTDEGREE OF B. S. IN PHYSICAL EDUCATIONUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSHOSPITAL ACCOUNT OF CURTIS W. WICKERDEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATIONMEDICAL PRACTICE REPORTPAVILION V GARDENHOSPITAL AUXILIARYMARY MUNFORD TABLETEXTENSION OF HOSPITALGIFTS AND GRANTSDEATH OF PROFESSOR WAGNERRESIGNATIONSLEAVE OF ABSENCEELECTIONSRESIGNATIONS FROM THE FACULTYDEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATIONAPPLICATION OF MR. BOOKER REAVES FOR ADMISSIONUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSHOSPITAL MATTERS - SLH PROGRAMHOSPITAL CONSTRUCTIONRETIREMENT OF LECTURERSMEDICAL FACULTY SALARY PLANSTATE BUDGET 1952-54MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSRESIGNATIONELECTIONSNAMING OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES BUILDINGEASEMENT TO FREDERICKSBURG NATURAL GAS COMPANY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mr. and Mrs. Cammann C. Duke, a gift of 572 volumes to the Alderman Library valued at

$ 1,000.00

From Mr. Samuel Bemiss and Mr. FitzGerald Bemiss, books, manuscripts and drawings valued at

500.00

From Prof. A. G. A. Balz, a collection of volumes on Descartes valued at

1,250.00

From the estate of the late Dr. H. Kruger Kaprielian, Class of 1908, to aid students of Armenian blood

48,886.59

From the estate of the late C. G. Memminger, a final distribution, for development and support of professorships and scholarships in chemical engineering

9,395.07

From the Upjohn Company, for medical research under Dr. William Parson

3,000.00

From the Taraknath Das Foundation, for promoting Indo-American cultural cooperation

200.00

From The S. E. Massengill Company, for medical research under Dr. K. R. Crispell

3,600.00

From Sigma Xi, Honorary Scientific Society, for research in astronomy under Dr. E. R. Dyer, Jr.

300.00

From the Creole Petroleum Corporation, for books and materials on Venezuela

5,000.00

From Mr. Bayard Sharp, for the Woodrow Wilson School of Foreign Affairs

$ 300.00

From Mr. John Puryear of New York, Class of 1913, for the Hospital

200.00

From the American Medical Association, Council on Pharmacy and Chemistry, for research by Dr. Sydney W. Britton

500.00

From the Alumni Association, contributions made through that office for the following purposes:

Department of Engineering

572.28

Department of Medicine

1,536.62

Department of Law

1,508.49

From the Department of the Army, for research in chemistry by Dr. Paul M. Gross, Jr.

7,875.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for research under the following members of the Medical Faculty.

Dr. Alto E. Feller

6,480.00

Dr. Chalmers L. Gemmill

7,823.00

Dr. John L. Guerrant

4,941.00

Dr. Byrd S. Leavell

11,178.00

Dr. Preston Lowrance

4,644.00

Dr. J. F. A. McManus

3,348.00

Dr. Edwin P. Lehman

3,699.00

Dr. William R. Sandusky

1,512.00

Dr. David C. Wilson (training grant for staff members)

18,900.00

From Mr. Seaborn Flournoy, for student aid

$ 200.00

From an anonymous donor, for the Bibliographical Society

500.00

From an anonymous donor, to be used by the Bureau of Public Administration in the field of county government

2,000.00

From the McGregor Fund, for use by the Alderman Library in preparing a history reading list for distribution to the secondary schools of Virginia, to stimulate reading of original documents in American history

1,500.00

From an anonymous donor, an initial contribution to establish a debate prize for students majoring in economics and commerce

100.00

From Mr. Herbert Johnson, to be used at the discretion of the President

300.00

From Mr. H. C. Hofheimer, II, for the Graduate School of Business

1,000.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for a joint research project by Dr. William Parson and Dr. Jesse W. Beams

10,843.00

From an anonymous donor, the income to be used for University purposes at the discretion of the President, a gift of securities valued at approximately

84,000.00

From an anonymous donor, for the Graduate School of Business, securities valued at approximately

100,000.00

From Mr. Prewitt Semmes, Jr., the proceeds to be used by Dr. W. W. Waddell, Jr., and Dr. J. M. Nokes, securities valued at approximately

4,600.00

From Philip Morris and Co., Ltd., Inc., for the purchase of the first book on tobacco printed in the colony of Virginia

600.00

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Visitors Carrington, Emmett, Garnett, Gay, Mears, Smith, Talbott and Willis. Absent: Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College, Visitors Anderson, Barksdale, Gravatt, Howard and Wailes.

The minutes of the meeting of November 9, 1951, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President announced receipt of the following gifts and grants.

The following resignations were accepted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Miss Ethelene Nichols, Instructor in Nursing, be and it is hereby accepted as of November 10, 1951

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Herbert W. Park, Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and chief of the physical therapy unit, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1950-51.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Miss Anne Pollok, Assistant Professor of Nursing, be and it is hereby accepted as of December 4, 1951

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Eugene C. McDonald, Lecturer in Neurology and Psychiatry, be and it is hereby accepted as of December 1, 1951.

The following leave of absence was granted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. John Kerry King, Assistant Professor of Foreign Affairs, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay for the session of 1952-53 to accept a Fulbright fellowship for work in Thailand

The following elections were approved.

Mrs. Belle Moore Woodson elected Instructor in Nursing, effective November 11, 1951. This is a replacement for Miss Nichols, who has resigned

Dr. Clarke W. Mangun elected Lecturer in Neurology and Psychiatry, effective December 1, 1951, at no salary from the University. He is now senior psychiatrist at the Roanoke Veterans Hospital

In accordance with a resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on July 14, 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University of Virginia in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps program, the following appointment made by the President was confirmed by the Board:

Lieutenant Stephen L. Rusk as Associate Professor of Naval Science, effective in March, 1952, at no salary from the University

The Rector pointed out that the Code of Virginia, 1942, requires the election of a Rector by the Board at their first meeting after the 28th day of February, 1922, and every fourth year thereafter, hence when he was elected Rector on May 13, 1949, it was to fill the unexpired term of Mr. Stettinius ending at the first meeting held after the 28th of February, 1950. The minutes of the meeting at which Mr. Black was elected Rector do not show that he was to fill the unexpired term, and he had presumed that he was elected for four years. The Board unanimously adopted the following resolution:

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Barron Foster Black be and he is hereby elected Rector for a four-year term to begin at the first meeting of this Board after the 28th day of February, 1950, that is, on March 10, 1950;

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the acts of the Rector commencing March 10, 1950, to December 14, 1951, be and they are hereby validated.

A resolution electing the Secretary for a similar term was adopted, as follows

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Vincent Shea be and he is hereby elected Secretary for a four-year term to begin March 10, 1950,

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the acts of the Secretary from March 10, 1950, to December 14, 1951, be and they are hereby validated

Mr. Black read a letter from the Washington, D. C. alumni chapter acknowledging Mr. Black's response to a resolution adopted by this chapter concerning the athletic situation.

Mr. Black stated that he had received a letter from A. J. Brent, secretary of the Richmond alumni chapter, in which Mr. Brent stated that the Richmond chapter had endorsed the present athletic policy of the University. The resolution of the Richmond Alumni Chapter was read to the Board by Mr. Black.

Mr. Gay stated that he felt the Board should go ahead with its plan to establish a control body to administer the athletic program of the University. He pointed out that the committee of the Board was working on this matter at the time of the Gooch report.

Mr. Carrington pointed out certain features of the present athletic program which he felt should be reviewed and which only an athletic council of the type proposed by the committee of the Board would be in a position to handle.

Mr. Black said that he felt that it would be inopportune for the Board to take any action on this matter until the several faculties had acted on the Gooch report.

The President stated that he believed the Board would be in a far better position to make a decision in this matter after the American Council on Education completed its study and made a report, which report he understands will be available in the early spring. He also feels it advisable to wait until the several faculties have acted on the Gooch report. After discussion the following resolution was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED that the Rector be asked to appoint a committee of the Board to study the type of organization which should be established for the control of athletics, and also to report on the question as to whether the action should be taken in the near future on this matter, or it should be deferred until after the Faculty Senate passed on it.

Mr. Gay and President Darden both expressed the feeling that the same committee which had studied the matter previously should be reconstituted. While no resolution was adopted, it was the sense of the Board that in carrying out the above resolution the Rector should reconstitute the Special Committee to Study Athletic Policy, with the same membership. But in the final analysis, it was agreed that the matter of who should serve on the Committee should be left to the Rector.

The President said that he wished to report the circumstances concerning statements in press releases about Virginia's participation in a post-season football game in one of the national bowls. He stated that Mr. Tebell, Director of Athletics, came to see him, saying he had had inquiries from the business managers of two bowls. Neither organization wished to extend an invitation to the University unless it was sure the invitation would be accepted. The President said that he told Mr. Tebell that the Board of Visitors would have to pass upon the matter and that he had no authority to commit the Board. Hence no invitation was received.

The Rector presented the Richey statement, which was discussed, and the Rector was asked to insert the modifications agreed upon and thereafter to file a report in the minutes of the Board, the time for filing to be left to the discretion of the Rector. Whereupon the statement was accepted by the Board.

On April 25, 1951, Mr. Homer G. Richey, Assistant Professor of the Woodrow Wilson School of Foreign Affairs of the University of Virginia, filed his petition with the Rector and Members of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia making charges against the Woodrow Wilson School and certain requests for action by the Board. Hearings were conducted on four separate occasions. In addition, numerous briefs and memoranda have been filed and carefully read by the Board members. All interested persons having been given a full opportunity to offer evidence and to be fully heard, the Board on September 14, after careful consideration, rejected the prayer of the petition and now further sets forth the reasons for its action.

This petition was filed in opposition to a report of Professor Gange, Director of the Woodrow Wilson School of Foreign Affaits, made on May 10, 1950, to the President of the University in the discharge of the official responsibilities imposed upon the Director of the School. The report of Mr. Gange contained recommendations for the promotion of Assistant Professors Fernbach and Micaud to Associate Professorships in the School and recommended that Professor Richey be appointed an Acting Associate Professor for a period of one year, or, if Mr. Richey were not agreeable to this, that he be appointed a lecturer on an annual basis. Mr. Richey declined both of these proposals, and elected to serve to the termination of his present contract, which expires on June 30, 1952. The report set forth in some detail the reasons for the recommendations made.

The President of the University appointed a committee of the faculty to examine the complaints of Mr. Richey. This committee was composed of Dr. Ivey F. Lewis, Dean of the University, Chairman, Dr. Lewis M. Hammond, Professor of Philosophy, Dean F. D. G. Ribble of the Department of Law, Professor T. R. Snavely, Chairman of the School of Economics and of the School of Business Administration, and Professor George W. Spicer of the School of Political Science. It conducted seven hearings investigating the complaints of Mr. Richey, on substantially the same points now presented to the Board, and subsequently submitted to the President its report unanimously rejecting the complaints

The petition of Mr. Richey requests the Board to take action in two respects:

1\. "To remove Mr. Gange for cause, as Director of the Woodrow Wilson School and from the faculty of the University of Virginia," and

2\. To make Mr. Richey "A full Professor in the Woodrow Wilson School of Foreign Affairs."

The request for the removal of Mr. Gange "for cause" is predicated upon a charge that he lacks "integrity and common honesty". We find that the charge is unsupported by any evidence adduced before us and it is unanimously rejected.

The second request, that the petitioner be promoted to a full professorship against the recommendation of the Director of the school is likewise rejected. This request is predicated upon a charge that the recommendation of Mr. Gange in respect to the promotion of Mr. Richey was controlled by prejudice on the part of Mr. Gange against Mr. Richey by reason of differences in their economic and political views. The evidence adduced before the Board demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Board that the recommendations of the Director of the Woodrow Wilson School of Foreign Affairs in respect to the promotion of Mr. Richey were made after careful consideration upon the basis of teaching ability, training and other professional qualifications in the field of Foreign Affairs and upon consideration of his past performance and prospects for future professional growth and leadership in that field

It is apparent from the testimony offered that Mr. Richey's views upon political and economic subjects are different from the views of Mr. Gange, Mr. Fernbach and Mr. Micaud. It does not appear that any of the latter three either hold or defend any political position with the intensity and emotion which Mr. Richey displays in regard to his own

The mere fact that Mr. Gange may hold political views differing from those held by Mr. Richey does not justify the inference that the official recommendations of Mr. Gange to the President were affected by those differences. Especially is this true where the recommendations are justified upon an appraisal of professional competence which appears to have been fairly made upon the basis of considerations heretofore mentioned. We find that the evidence does not support the charge that the recommendations of Mr. Gange in respect to Mr. Richey's promotion were controlled by political prejudice or other improper considerations. It follows that it is the duty of this Board to reject the second request of the petition

Having reached the conclusion that there has been no discrimination against Mr. Richey because of differences in political and economic views, this report might well be concluded. We deem it appropriate, however, to take particular notice of the charges contained in paragraph 4 of the petition. This paragraph is in the following language.

"In order to ascertain whether the statement made in the above paragraph be correct or not (i.e., whether Mr. Richey has been discriminated against because of his economic and political views) an examination of the political views of the persons involved is relevant. The writer has asserted and hereby reasserts that the viewpoint of the director and staff of the school is left-wing in fact pink. The writer, therefore, requests that the political views of the persons involved be made a matter for deliberation by the Board in acting upon the petition of the writer."

To the average layman, the characterization of a man as "left wing in fact pink" or "pink, if not a dark hued red" nowadays means that he is a communist - one who seeks to overthrow our form of government by violence or otherwise. But Mr. Richey has declared in his discussions before the Board that he has no proof that any one in the Woodrow Wilson School is communistic

Taking Mr. Richey's statements at their face value, the best that could be made of them is that the members of the Woodrow Wilson School staff, other than himself, were socialistic in their views.

Students appeared before the Board at Mr. Richey's instance and told the Board that Mr. Gange favored the F.E.P.C. (denied by Mr. Gange), the TVA Act, and the Point Four Program. Even if these charges were true, we could hardly dismiss Mr. Gange on account of these views. Some of these students said that Mr. Gange had indicated a strong friendship with the present Secretary of State, Dean Acheson, and with Leo Pavlosky, one of the drafters of the charter of the United Nations. Mr. Gange does not deny his friendship for the Secretary of State and for Mr. Pavlosky, and in fact, rather proudly admits it. One of the students said that the members of the Woodrow Wilson staff other than Mr. Richey were Internationalists. Several said that the faculty members of the Woodrow Wilson School supported the national administration in its policies quite vigorously, and there were other isolated criticisms, but they do not seem to us to form the ground for a dismissal of any one of the three faculty members. From other students there came letters of confidence in Messrs. Gange, Fernbach and Micaud, and of criticism of Mr. Richey.

With the exception of Mr. Richey's own statements, and the statements referred to in the preceding paragraph, no evidence was introduced to support the assertion of Mr. Richey that members of the staff, other than himself, entertained left wing views.

Messrs. Gange, Fernbach and Micaud denied emphatically that they were socialists. On what is really the critical point as far as this Board is concerned - that is, whether a biased one-sided and improper view has been presented to the students - there was little or no evidence that would support this charge. What the students told the Board, and which has been detailed above, certainly would indicate only that some of the political views expressed by certain of the faculty members did not meet the views of the students - not that the expressions were improper. We might ourselves disagree with some of these views, but that would not mean that we would be justified in dismissing the faculty member on this account

The reading lists, the list of speakers, of which there were many and quite a few outstanding ones, and the statements of each of the three members of the staff other than Richey, indicated that both sides of controversial questions were presented.

Mr. Richey produced no evidence that he had ever attended Mr. Fernbach's classes. The latter said that it was not his custom to do so. While Richey had attended some few of Micaud's classes, Richey himself pronounces Micaud a proper person to teach as a member of the Woodrow Wilson School faculty in a document filed by him with President Darden on February 10, 1951, entitled "Thoughts on the Future Development of the Woodrow Wilson School." In paragraph 21 of this document he says, "The writer's conclusion is that Charles Micaud has a contribution to make to the Woodrow Wilson School." He adds that his recommendation is that Micaud be retained on the Faculty.

In this same document Mr. Richey accuses Gange of being a socialist, but expresses the opinion that "the mere fact of Mr. Gange being a socialist is, to the writer's mind, not sufficient necessarily to disqualify him as a teacher, but it is a question of prudence whether he should occupy a key administrative and policy making post."

Thus we have a pretrial acquittal by Richey of both Gange and Micaud insofar as the fitness of these men to teach is concerned.

Mr. Richey had been associated with Messrs. Micaud and Fernbach for a full four years beginning with 1946, and with Mr. Gange ever since he became Director of the Woodrow Wilson School. Yet there was no report from him to any person in authority, or to this Board, of the serious condition he now states exists in the Woodrow Wilson School until Mr. Gange filed his recommendation to Mr. Darden that Mr. Richey not be advanced to an associate professorship. Thus the charges appear to be connected with the disappointment of Mr. Richey that his advancement was not recommended. This is not a background which would tend to calm, fair and deliberate judgment on the part of Mr. Richey.

It should be apparent that in a school dedicated to training young men to cope with the tremendous and complicated problems arising from the ideological conflicts of this generation, all concepts both economic and political upon which the societies of the world are organized, must of necessity be understood. This involves not only a treatment and understanding of the mechanical organization of each country, but of the ideology and history from which its organization and system has sprung. The usefulness of the Woodrow Wilson School would be largely destroyed if the freedom of its faculty to present and to discuss with its students all shades and degrees of political and economic opinion and theory were impaired. The evidence produced before this Board shows that all such views are presented in the Woodrow Wilson School of Foreign Affairs objectively, and that the student has been left free to form his own conclusions and his own political and economic views and philosophy.

President Darden stated that the above group wishes to establish at the University a short summer course in banking, similar to that now maintained by the American Bankers Association at Rutgers University. The Consumer Bankers Association would award a certificate on completion of the course of study and would employ some of our faculty in the program and also bring in other persons to teach. The University would rent space for classrooms and dormitory accommodations and would provide food service. The President was authorized to carry through negotiations with the Consumer Bankers Association and to contract for the establishment of a summer school at the University.

The President reported that three of the Dawson's Row houses had to be torn down to make way for the Naval Armory. Two of these the University is dismantling with its own personnel and saving the brick for repair work around the University. However, House G, which was built later than the other houses, was constructed of a very poor brick. The University has contracted with a local man, Mr. L. L. Lang, to pull the building down at his own expense for the materials in it. In addition he is paying the University $100. The President stated that it was necessary to proceed with this contract without first securing the approval of the Board, to meet construction dates specified in the bids for the Naval Armory. The action of the President was ratified.

The President stated that Mr. Perkins, Attorney for the University, had discussed with him the necessity of selecting a representative to look after the University's interest in this estate, which is being administered in New Orleans. The President stated that it might be possible to employ jointly with Tulane University and Trinity Church in New Orleans counsel to represent the interests of all three institutions. The following resolution was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, be and he is hereby authorized to secure an appropriate representative to look after the interest of the University in the estate of the late Hugh E. Vincent, such appointment to be subject to approval by the Attorney General.

The President presented a resolution of the University Senate recommending to the Board that the degree of Bachelor of Science in Physical Education be abolished. The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the present degree of Bachelor of Science in Physical Education be abolished

The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules 242, 244, 245, 248, 251 and 252, aggregating $17,914.09.

Name. Curtis W. Wicker

Hospital Admission No.: 298457

Dates: July 10 - October 27, 1950

Balance Due. $1,131.30

Mr. Wicker was admitted as a private patient for a back operation which was estimated to require approximately two weeks' hospitalization. Complications developed and the patient stayed here three and one-half months. The total hospital bill was $1,631.30, of which the patient paid $500.00, giving a 90-day note on the balance. He now writes that he cannot pay and is still unable to work. Dr. Martinez, the physician in charge, advises that his department made no charge because in their opinion the patient is permanently disabled.

Financial information indicates that the patient is a farmer with a wife and one child dependent and makes his living on a thirty-six acre tobacco farm, valued at approximately $10,000.00, which is free of debts.

Because of the existence of debt free property, the Committee is referring this case to the Board of Visitors for instructions as to whether the account should be cancelled or be reduced to judgment and the judgment recorded against the patient's property

The Committee did not like the idea of taking legal action which might have the effect of putting a disabled person out of a house and home and, at the same time, it was skeptical as to the University's right to forego subjecting the property to a lien to protect the State's interest.

The Secretary was instructed to advise the Hospital Accounts Committee to try to secure a deed of trust on the property and, failing that, to secure a judgment and have it recorded against the property

The President reported that he had been concerned for some time with the quality of instruction in business administration and had discussed with various educators ways and means of improving the training here at the University. The matter had been presented to the Council of Deans, which was unanimous in recommending to the President that a separate Department of Business Administration be created with authority to award appropriate degrees.

The President stated that he feels training in the College should be limited to liberal arts. He said that there had always been opposition in the College faculty to the training in business administration, and he feels that this opposition will prevent the proper development of such training as long as it is offered as a part of the curriculum of the College.

The President stated that he simply wanted to present the matter to the Board for information and advice, that he did not want to pursue the matter if the Board felt it was inadvisable to create a new department. While no resolution was adopted, it was the sense of the Board that the President should proceed with his investigation of this matter and at the appropriate time present to the Board a proposal for a new Department of Business Administration.

The President stated that a committee of the clinical faculty of the Medical School had prepared a revised proposal governing the income from private practice and other matters pertaining to the clinical staff. He recommended that the matter be referred to the Medical Committee for study. Whereupon a resolution was adopted requesting the Rector to so do.

President Darden reported that in the restoration of the garden of Pavilion V the question had come up of the use of the garden by the two families who will occupy this pavilion. The residents of the back half of the pavilion did not feel that it would be possible in the restored garden for the two families to use the garden jointly.

Mrs. Smith stated that the garden was ample for use by both families, and that the way the planting was planned by Mr. Hopkins, the landscape architect, in a relatively short time the growth of the shrubs would naturally divide the garden. She thought it would be most unfortunate if the Lawn occupants of the pavilion were deprived of the use of this beautiful garden.

After considerable discussion, on motion of Mr. Gay, a resolution was adopted that it was the sense of the Board that the garden should be jointly used by the two families.

President Darden presented a letter from Dr. Ackart, Director of the Hospital, recommending that the Hospital Circle be recognized by the Board as the official Women's Auxiliary of the University of Virginia Hospital. Such recognition would enable it to join the national organization of such auxiliaries. Mrs. Smith stated that she was familiar with such activities and that she thought such recognition would benefit the Hospital. The following resolution was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the ladies' organization known as the Hospital Circle be and it is hereby accorded recognition as the official Women's Auxiliary of the University of Virginia Hospital.

President Darden stated that Miss Hollingsworth had recommended that the marble tablet in memory of Mary Munford, now located in the general reading room of the Alderman Library, be moved and placed on the outside of the new Women's Dormitory, which is named in honor of Mrs. Munford. The following resolution was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that this Board gives its consent and approval to having the marble tablet in memory of Mary Munford, now located in the general reading room of the Alderman Library, removed and placed on the outside of the new Women's Dormitory, Mary Munford Hall; provided, however, that the consent of the Munford family be first obtained by the President, and that the location of the tablet be approved by the architects of the building.

The President reported that on November 27 a mass meeting was held in Charlottesville protesting the discrimination in the accommodations provided negroes in the University of Virginia Hospital, and that Spottswood W. Robinson, attorney of Richmond, Virginia, had offered the services of his firm if funds could be raised to institute suit. The President stated that he had been in communication with the Governor about this matter for several months and had hoped to be able to report to the Board that the Governor had released funds for the construction of a new wing to the Hospital which would alleviate present conditions.

When the notice of the meeting of November 27 appeared in a local newspaper, President Darden sent clippings to the Governor and urged him to take action as soon as possible. It is President Darden's feeling that it would be most unfortunate were such a suit brought, but that if plans were under way to construct a new wing, those pressing for action would be satisfied.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia, Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College, Visitors Anderson, Barksdale, Carrington, Emmett, Garnett, Gay, Gravatt, Mears, Smith, Talbott, Wailes and Willis. Absent: Visitor Howard.

The minutes of the meeting of December 14, 1951, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved

The President announced receipt of the following gifts and grants.

Dr. Russell Halderman Wagner, Professor of Speech and Chairman of the School of Speech and Drama since September, 1947, died January 9, 1952.

The following resolutions were adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Dwight J. Brown, Jr., as Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, be and it is hereby accepted as of January 31, 1952. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Mr. John Ritchie, III, Professor of Law since 1937, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1951-52. He has accepted the position of Dean of the School of Law at Washington University in St. Louis. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking

The following leave of absence was granted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Edward S. Overman, Associate Professor of Political Science, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay for the second semester of the session 1951-52, in order to accept a visiting professorship at the University of Alabama

The following elections were approved

Dr. Edward Valentine Jones, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, effective January 15, 1952. He is to receive a basic salary of $4,000 from a grant from the Virginia Society for Crippled Children and $4,000 per year from income of the Department of Neurology and Psychiatry. This is a replacement for Dr. Randolph Leigh who has resigned

Dr. Ahmad Ezzat Abdel Kerim elected Visiting Professor of Foreign Affairs for the second semester of the session of 1951-52, with a compensation of $500 from the University to come from a gift to the School of Foreign Affairs for this purpose. The balance of his stipend is to come from a Fulbright grant.

Dr. Alex R. Kelly, Jr., elected Lecturer in Neurology and Psychiatry, effective February 1, 1952, at no salary from the University

The Board discussed at some length the resignation of Professor John Ritchie from the Law Faculty. The question was raised whether Professor Ritchie might have been retained if his salary could have been increased. The President stated that from numerous conversations with Mr. Ritchie he had gathered that Mr. Ritchie desired to become dean of a law school, and he felt that while the sizable salary increase offered him played some part in his decision the primary reason was Mr. Ritchie's desire to head a law school.

After considerable discussion concerning the general question of resignations from the faculty, it was the sense of the Board that in the case of resignation of a prominent member of the faculty, the President should consult the Executive Committee to see if something could be done to retain the individual.

The President read a letter from Professor Snavely, chairman of the Schools of Economics and Business Administration, recommending that the University set up a separate Department of Business Administration, for the following reasons:

(1) Establishment of a separate department would make for greater flexibility in the curriculum

(2) A separate department with its own dean and faculty would give to the students a spirit of unity and cohesiveness which is not now possible to obtain.

(3) A separate department would make a strong appeal to graduates of Virginia high schools.

The President pointed out that the students taking business administration would continue to take a sizable number of courses in the College, but the curriculum would be prescribed by the faculty of the Department of Business Administration. Mr. Gay inquired if there were a comparable arrangement now in the University. The Department of Education requires its students to take about half of their courses in the College. The President further stated that he believed the College would be strengthened by the separation of business training, as it would leave in the College only those students interested in a liberal arts degree.

A resolution was adopted authorizing the President to establish machinery to create a separate Department of Business Administration, with the proviso that the course of study and the degree or degrees to be offered be submitted to the Board for its approval prior to the inauguration of such a curriculum

Dean Stiles had sent to each member of the Board a letter concerning the application of Mr. Booker Reaves to the Department of Education for admission to pursue graduate study. The President stated that he had reviewed the offerings in the State in this field with Dean Stiles, and admission had been denied Mr. Reaves because he could secure training either in Richmond or at Virginia State College in Petersburg.

Whereupon a resolution was adopted approving the action of the President in denying admission to the Department of Education to Mr. Booker Reaves.

The Secretary reported that during the calendar year 1951, the Hospital Accounts Committee was authorized by resolution of the Board of Visitors to charge off uncollectible hospital accounts totaling $146,538.83.

Mrs. Smith called to the attention of the Board that there is a bill pending before the Legislature to insure that the hospitals will be paid the full cost of caring for indigent patients, from State and local funds. A resolution was adopted requesting the Rector to investigate this matter and advise the Board at its February meeting.

The President reported that the Governor had made available to the University sufficient funds to procure a second boiler for the Power Plant. This boiler is necessary before we can make an addition to the Hospital, as the present Power Plant capacity is insufficient

The Governor is also recommending to the Legislature an appropriation of $385,000 to match Hill-Burton funds granted to the University for the construction of a wing to the Hospital which would tie Barringer and Davis wings together. The President reported that plans for this addition had been reviewed and had been returned to the architects for some modifications. To meet the requirements of the Hill-Burton Act, the University must advertise for bids and let the contract prior to March 31. The President stated that the plans would be cleared with the State Budget Office, and he asked permission of the Board to advertise for bids prior to the February meeting of the Board, to meet the deadline. Whereupon a resolution was adopted authorizing the President to carry out the plan for this building as set forth above

The President read a letter from Dean Ribble requesting the University to waive the present retirement regulation to permit Mr. Donald H. Richberg to continue as a lecturer after he had passed 70 years of age. It was pointed out that Judge Dobie had retired at the end of the 1950-51 session under the seventy-year rule. After considerable discussion a resolution was adopted denying the petition of Mr. Ribble to waive the regulation in Mr. Richberg's case.

Dr. Emmett reported that the Medical Committee had considered and approved the substance of a proposal submitted by the Medical School Committee on Private Practice. Dr. Emmett requested the Board of Visitors to consider the matter at its February meeting. The Secretary was requested to distribute to the Board copies of the basic proposal and of Dr. Lippard's letter to Dr. Emmett of December 7, 1951.

The President reported that the detailed State budget had not been released, but preliminary data given to the press indicated that the University's budget requests had suffered considerably. The President said that he would report in full at the next meeting when the budget was available.

Dr. Combs reported the resignation of Dr. Charles K. Martin, Jr., Professor of Education and Psychology, in order to accept appointment as president of Radford College. Dr. Martin joined the Mary Washington Faculty in 1939. He has rendered outstanding service, and the College wishes for him every success in his new position.

The following elections were approved.

Dr. Burney Lynch Parkinson elected Acting Professor of Education and Psychology at a salary of $5,450 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 15, 1952. Dr. Parkinson will replace Dr. Charles K. Martin.

Mr. W. J. Pitman elected Instructor in Biology at a salary of $2,880 for the session of nine months, incumbency as of September 17, 1951.

The naming of the Student Activities Building was referred to the Mary Washington Committee to investigate and make recommendations to the Board at its next meeting.

The following report and resolution were submitted by Dr. Combs.

The Fredericksburg Natural Gas Company has acquired the municipal gas plant of Fredericksburg and proposed to furnish the community of Fredericksburg with natural gas in the near future. It is very likely that it will be necessary for the gas company to traverse Mary Washington College property at some point.

When natural gas is provided in the Fredericksburg-Spotsylvania area, it will be of considerable advantage to the college. To date it has not been necessary to use more than one of our three boilers. It would be our purpose, therefore, to convert one of the boilers to gas, reserving the other two for coal in the event of an emergency.

Mr. Fred Robinson, president of the company, and Mr. W. J. Gibson, attorney for the firm, have requested that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia approve a proposed bill to be submitted to the General Assembly authorizing and empowering the Rector and Visitors of the University to grant to Fredericksburg Natural Gas Company certain easements of right of way over, on and across the property of Mary Washington College. The proposed bill is as follows

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF VIRGINIA:

1\. The Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia are authorized and empowered to grant and convey unto Fredericksburg Natural Gas Company, its successors and assigns, upon such terms and conditions as the Board of Visitors deems proper, easements of right of way for the construction, maintenance and operation of gas transmission and distribution pipe lines on, over and across the property of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia in the City of Fredericksburg and County of Spotsylvania, Virginia. The instrument so granting and conveying the easements of right of way shall be signed and executed in such manner and form as it authorized and directed by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia. The instruments granting and conveying such rights of way shall provide for the reversion thereof to Mary Washington College in the event of abandonment of the easement.

After consideration of the foregoing report, this resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed bill set forth above authorizing and empowering The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to grant to Fredericksburg Natural Gas Company certain easements of right of way over and across the property of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia be and the same is hereby approved.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.