 TEI to HTML

GIFTSLEAVES OF ABSENCERESIGNATIONSCANCELLATION OF ELECTIONCORRECTION IN TERM OF APPOINTMENTELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTSPROMOTIONUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSHOSPITAL DEFICITATHLETIC COMMITTEE REPORTFIRST-YEAR STUDENT PARTICIPATION IN VARSITY ATHLETICSRESOLUTION CONCERNING RESIGNATION OF MR. W. ALLAN PERKINSPROPOSED JOSEPH HENRY TOWLE MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIPPROPOSED EDWARD R. STETTINIUS SCHOLARSHIP FUNDMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSRENEWAL OF LEASE ON BETTY LEWIS HALLFRANCES THOMPSON TRUST FUNDENDOWMENT FUNDMUSIC BUILDING
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mr. Samuel Bemiss, for the purchase of two rare books

$ 159.50

From Mrs. Virginius Randolph Shackelford, a replica of Thomas Jefferson's portrait by Bass Otis, for presentation to Alumni Hall, valued at

2,025.00

From the estate of Mr. John B. Minor, 531 books, 4 magazines, 2 pamphlets and the portrait of Professor John B. Minor by Guillaume, painted about 1855

From Mr. Henry C. Taylor, of New York, a gift of books valued at

775.00

From Professor R. H. Webb, 428 volumes valued at

575.00

From Mrs. Isabelle Tilford Wagstaff, a gift of books in memory of David Wagstaff and Henry Morgan Tilford valued at

10,100.00

From Mr. Robert Carter, a gift of four rare books valued at

162.00

From Mrs. Doris R. Neale, to be used for needs of practical nursing students

100.00

From the Class of 1952, to be held in trust and the income used to secure books for the Alderman Library

1,000.00

From the V Club, to establish a scholarship for a Virginia student in College, Education or Engineering

1,300.00

Contributions to the Virginia Hearing Foundation: From Mrs. Elizabeth K. Thomson$500.00From Mrs. William H. White, Jr.250.00From Mr. William H. White, Jr.250.001,000.00

From Mrs. Elizabeth K. Thomson

$500.00

From Mrs. William H. White, Jr.

250.00

From Mr. William H. White, Jr.

250.00

1,000.00

From Mrs. Elizabeth K. Thomson

$500.00

From Mrs. William H. White, Jr.

250.00

From Mr. William H. White, Jr.

250.00

1,000.00

From the estate of Mrs. Ellie Marcus Marx, to establish the Samuel Marx Scholarship in Education

2,500.00

From the Trigon Society, for the purchase of books for the Engineering Library

100.00

From Mrs. R. Y. Conrad, for books in International Studies, in memory of William Wylie Morton

100.00

From the Texas Company, for a fellowship in Chemistry for the session of 1952-53

1,800.00

From the Bollingen Foundation, for travel expenses of Professor Yalden-Thomson to Scotland for the summer of 1952

750.00

From Mr. John L. Pratt, to be used for the Pratt Trace Analysis Laboratory

20,000.00

From Mr. John Puryear, of New York, Class of 1913, for the hospital.

200.00

From the John and Mary R. Markle Foundation, for a fellowship to Dr. Preston B. Lowrance during the session of 1952-53

6,000.00

From the Alumni Association, to be used for the Medical School Library

1,500.00

From the Eli Lilly Company, in support of hematology research by Dr. Byrd Leavell

200.00

From the estate of the late L. J. McCormick, for the Observatory

1,979.18

From Rotary International, for the Institute of Public Affairs

1,500.00

From the United States Public Health Service, for medical research under Dr. A. E. Feller, for the year beginning September 15, 1952

4,806.00

From the United States Public Health Service, for medical research under Dr. Watts, for the year beginning September 1, 1952

5,940.00

From the United States Public Health Service, for research under Dr. B. S. Leavell, for one year beginning September 1, 1952

3,000.00

From the Engineer Research and Development Laboratories, United States Army, for research in chemical engineering under Prof. R. M. Hubbard, from July 15, 1952, to August 15, 1953

18,500.00

From Mrs. Elizabeth K. Thomson

$500.00

From Mrs. William H. White, Jr.

250.00

From Mr. William H. White, Jr.

250.00

1,000.00

Name:

The Joseph Henry Towle Memorial Scholarship.

Emolument:

$500 per annum. Subject to renewal on a yearly basis at the sole discretion of the donor.

Tenure:

One year. The original recipient shall have preference for renewal, up to a maximum of four years' tenure.

Selection:

Authority for selecting the recipient of the award shall be vested in the President and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Criteria:

The award shall be open to students in any department of the University, with preference to students in the College of Arts and Sciences and Department of Engineering, in that order. The original recipient shall be a student of academic promise and high moral character. To be eligible for renewal, the original recipient shall maintain satisfactory academic standing and add by participation to the betterment of student life at the University, all within the standards and judgment of the scholarship committee.

The financial need of the recipient shall be a factor only where two or more candidates are so outstanding in required intellectual and moral qualities that it is difficult otherwise to decide between them.

OBJECTIVES:

It is hoped that this American student will, whatever his ultimate calling, always serve with great devotion the principles of our Constitution of the United States and the individual liberty it protects.

It is further hoped this student will be reminded that, in his day of full responsibility, other deserving students will need his help in turn.

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present: The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College; Visitors Carrington, Emmett, Gravatt, Howard, Mears, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, Talbott, Wailes, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Barksdale, Coxe, and Gay.

The minutes of the meeting of July 11, 1952, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President reported receipt of the following gifts and grants:

The following resolutions were adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Charles A. Micaud, Associate Professor of Foreign Affairs, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay for the session of 1952-53, for an assignment in France with

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Rowland Egger, Professor of Political Science, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay from September 1, 1952, to September 1, 1953, to work with the Public Administration Clearing House.

The following resignations were accepted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Mr. Emerson W. Smith, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1951-52. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Francis D. Smith, Assistant Professor of Clinical Pathology, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1951-52. We wish for him a complete recovery of his health.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Myron McCall Nichols, Instructor in Pediatrics, be and it is hereby accepted as of September 1, 1952. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Mr. Gordon Keith Carter, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1951-52.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Mr. James E. Berdahl, Assistant Professor of Music, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1951-52. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Dr. William B. Sisco, as Acting Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering at the July 11, 1952 meeting of the Board, be and it is hereby cancelled. Mr. Sisco has informed the Engineering Department that he will not be able to accept the appointment.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the promotion of Dr. Shao Chuan Leng is for the regular term of three years as Assistant Professor of Foreign Affairs instead of one year as stated in the July 11, 1952, docket of the Board.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. Farid Hanania as Visiting Professor of Foreign Affairs for the session of 1952-53, part of his salary to be defrayed by the Department of State.

Mr. Donald Lee Reid as Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, to replace Professor E. W. Smith, who has resigned as of September, 1952.

Mr. Robert T. Barbee, as Instructor in Art, beginning in September, 1952.

Dr. George Rozsa as Assistant Professor of Pathology, effective September 15, 1952.

Dr. Nicolas Cabrera as Visiting Associate Professor of Physics for the session of 195253.

Dr. Wilford A. H. Councill as Instructor in Urology, as of August 1, 1952.

Dr. William L. Neumann as Visiting Assistant Professor, part-time, in history, for the session of 1952-53. He is to carry part of the work of Professor Hutchinson, who is on leave for this session.

Mrs. Doris Portmann Dillard, as Part-time Lecturer in Music for the session of 1952-53.

Mr. Edmundo O'Gorman as Visiting Lecturer in Foreign Affairs for the first semester of the session of 1952-53.

Lieutenant (jg) Paul F. Abel was appointed Assistant Professor of Naval Science, effective at the beginning of the session of 1952-53, at no salary from the University.

Major Robert C. Schrom was appointed Assistant Professor of Air Science and Tactics, as of August 23, 1952, at no salary from the University.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Donald MacInnis, Instructor in Music, be and he is hereby promoted to Acting Assistant Professor of Music for the session of 1952-53.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules 302, 305, and 306, aggregating $20,964.91, recommended by them for cancellation.

President Darden stated that he had an appointment with the Governor next week to discuss this matter, and that the Director of the hospital estimated that during the biennium the deficit would exceed $600,000. The President pointed out that it might be necessary to close a part of the hospital if the Governor would not authorize the deficit. Concern was expressed by various members of the Board at the possibility that part of the hospital might have to be closed.

The President was requested to ask the Governor for a deficit authorization and, if that were not forthcoming, to advise the Governor what part of the hospital would have to be closed to stay within the appropriation.

The President was requested to ask the Governor to support legislation to require the localities to reimburse the hospital for the cost of caring for the indigents of the respective localities.

Mr. Talbott, Chairman of the Athletic Committee, presented the report of this committee. He stated that the committee wished to make several changes in the language of the report but that he would read it as it had been prepared. After discussing the matter at considerable length, the Board requested the committee to bring the final report to the October meeting.

Mr. Carrington asked that the Board consider the possibility of lifting the ban of first-year students participating in varsity athletics. Mr. Carrington stated that all of the teams whom we have scheduled in football would use freshmen and that it handicapped our coaches not to be able to do likewise.

The President stated that the Athletic Director had not raised with him the question of participation of first-year students in varsity athletics for the current session. It is important that all requests come through the Director of Athletics to the President for presentation to the Board.

The President pointed out that the Athletic Director had appeared before the University Senate last year and asked that the ban be lifted for the 1951-52 session only. In bringing his request, the Athletic Director stated that neither he nor his coaches would come back to the Senate and request a further extension of the ban.

After discussing the matter, a resolution was adopted requesting the President to confer with the Director of Athletics and such other persons as he deems proper concerning freshman participation in varsity athletics, and to make a report to the Board at a special meeting to be held when called by The Rector.

The following resolution concerning the resignation of Mr. W. Allan Perkins was adopted:

WHEREAS, W. Allan Perkins, Esquire, has for 37 years acted as legal advisor for the University of Virginia;

AND WHEREAS, he has now tendered his resignation in this capacity, and this Board has regretfully accepted it;

NOW THEREFORE, the members of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby record their deep appreciation of the patience, tact and ability displayed by W. Allan Perkins over the years in dealing with the problems of this, and preceding Boards of Visitors.

His wise counsel has been grounded not only on sound legal reasoning, but also on his own broad philosophy.

His service has been animated by a love of the University undiluted by selfishness.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the labors of W. Allan Perkins have been of great and lasting benefit to the University of Virginia and that the members of this Board hereby record the appreciation of those who have had the privilege of serving and working with him.

The President presented the following proposal for the establishment of a scholarship by members of the family of the late Joseph Henry Towle:

A resolution was adopted by the Board establishing the Joseph Henry Towle Memorial Scholarship, and the Secretary was instructed to write a letter of appreciation to the Towle family for this generous gift to the University.

President Darden presented a proposal from the Seven Society which Dean Lewis had transmitted to him, concerning the change in the Seven Society Loan Fund to the Edward R. Stettinius Scholarship Fund.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED, that the assets of the Seven Society Loan Fund be transferred to the Edward R. Stettinius Scholarship Fund. The Edward R. Stettinius Scholarship will consist of an annual award of $500 to be awarded to an entering student each year, and not renewable. The Scholarship will be administered in the usual way by the Scholarship Committee, which is instructed to notify the recipient of the source from which the money comes, and the person whom it memorializes, and to inform the Seven Society by letter of the name of the recipient.

The following elections were approved:

Miss Mildred Cates, Instructor in Home Economics, at a salary of $3000 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 15, 1952.

Mr. Albert G. Duke, Instructor in Radio and Speech, at a salary of $3000 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 15, 1952.

Mr. Albert R. Klein, Instructor in Dramatic Arts, at a salary of $2880 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 15, 1952.

Mrs. Elena Krupenski, Instructor in Ceramics and Art Appreciation, at a salary of $2880 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 15, 1952.

Mr. William C. Pinschmidt, Jr., Instructor in Biology, at a salary of $2880 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 15, 1952.

Miss Teresa Shelton, Instructor in Physical Education, at a salary of $3000 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 15, 1952. This is a one year appointment.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

"RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College is hereby authorized to renew the lease on Betty Lewis Hall for a period of five years at a rental rate per annum of $7,679.53."

The will of Frances Thompson, former librarian at Mary Washington College dated July 1, 1927, and probated April 5, 1928, provides that after her daughter becomes twenty-five years of age the proceeds of the trust fund would go to the college providing scholarships known as the Mary and Frances Thompson Fund. The daughter became twenty-five in 1944 and a trust fund of approximately $850 is held by the Virginia Trust Company of Richmond, Virginia. The Virginia Trust Company, substitute trustee of this fund, is anxious to get rid of it and has proposed that the court be petitioned to relieve the said Virginia Trust Company from the responsibility of this fund and such responsibility for the administration of this fund be transferred to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia for the benefit of Mary Washington College.

The Board adopted a resolution referring the matter to the Attorney for the University with the request that the Secretary advise him that the Board of Visitors approved this transfer.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

"RESOLVED that the gift of the graduating class in the amount of $369.68 be added to the Consolidated Endowment Fund of the University and held for Mary Washington College."

The Mary Washington Committee was authorized to select a name for the new music building, such action to be final.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.