 TEI to HTML

MONSANTO FELLOWSHIPATHLETIC REPORTFRESHMAN PARTICIPATION IN VARSITY ATHLETICS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

On call of The Rector, a special meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 10:30 A.M., in the office of Mr. Thomas B. Gay, Electric Building, Richmond, Virginia. The following were present: The Rector, Barron F. Black; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia, Visitors Carrington, Gay, Howard, Mears, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Barksdale, Coxe, Emmett, Gravatt, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, Talbott, and Wailes.

The Board accepted the offer of the Monsanto Chemical Company to establish an annual fellowship of $2500 at the University of Virginia. The fellowship carries a stipend of $1500 to the recipient, and $1000 to the department for miscellaneous overhead expenses in connection with administration of the fellowship.

The President presented the recommendations of the University Senate concerning the control of athletics at the University. The report was referred to the Athletic Committee which was asked to furnish copies of the report to the officers of the Alumni Association.

President Darden stated that he had requested Mr. Tebell, Director of Athletics, to present to the University Senate the request of the Athletic Department to use freshmen in varsity football for the session 1952-53 only. Upon completion of the presentation, the Senate voted 12 to 3 not to lift the ban for the current session.

The President then asked Mr. Tebell to present the case to the Board.

Mr. Tebell stated that it is his belief that, as a general policy, it is not a healthy thing to use freshmen on varsity teams. However, the football team is suffering from a man power shortage and all of our competitors will use freshmen, and he feels it is unfair for our teams if we do not let freshmen participate. To safeguard the team, a doctor carefully checks them for injuries.

How many freshmen would be used?

About six.

How many freshmen are on athletic scholarships?

Twelve full time and two part time.

Mr. Tebell, please tell the Board about these individuals. I am disturbed at the possibility that boys might be brought in just to play one year who could not meet our academic requirements to stay in school.

The recruitment of football players in the spring was on the assumption that they would not play with varsity teams. Hence, there was no incentive for the coaches to recruit men who would not stay beyond the first year.

It is a natural tendency for coaches to go overboard in seeking to obtain good football players. However, I feel that the new Admissions Committee serves as an adequate brake on the football coaches. I wish to state that no member of my coaching staff attempts to bring any pressure on the Admissions Committee.

Is participation in freshmen football as rugged as participation in varsity?

No. Freshmen are simply in training. They have a schedule of only four games as compared with ten for the varsity.

What will be the effect on the success of the schedule if the University does not play freshmen in varsity football?

If we do not have any injuries, we can get along okay. If we suffer many injuries, we would be handicapped as we have few reserve players.

Has this question been brought before the 3-3-3 Council?

Yes, last spring. The 3-3-3 Council decided not to ask the Senate to relax the rule.

Was not this decision reached after the Southern Conference had announced its plan to use freshmen?

At about the same time in May.

I understand that you feel participation of freshmen in varsity football is not advisable.

Yes, as a general policy.

Why?

Many of the boys who come out for freshman football are non-scholarship holders. If we abolish freshman football, these boys would not try for the varsity as there would be a slim chance of their participating. Fifty to sixty non-scholarship boys will come out for freshman football, but the coaches would add only the scholarship boys to the varsity team if there was no freshman team. One reason why the 1952-53 varsity team is so small is because we had no freshman team last year. However, I believe we could transfer five or six freshmen to the varsity team and continue the freshman team without disturbing its schedule or the participation of non-scholarship boys.

Is the freshman schedule less gruelling?

That is my opinion.

Dr. Frankel is disturbed because the varsity squad is so small. He believes there is less danger of injury if the boys do not have to play until they are exhausted.

Why should the freshman rule be relaxed this year?

There are three reasons. (1) A lack of man power on the varsity team. We are about sixteen short of a desirable squad. (2) The possibility of greater injuries because the boys have to play for longer periods. (3) There is a greater chance of winning if we can use some of the freshmen.

What would be our standing in the NCAA and the American Council on Education if we relaxed this rule?

All major conferences except the Southern and Southeastern bar freshmen. The NCAA regulation is only advisory.

Do most of our competitors grant more scholarships than we do?

The Southeastern limits scholarships to 125, but there is no restriction in the Southern Conference. The University of Virginia gets ten scholarship boys each year or about 40 total.

Would freshmen be of any value in the game tomorrow?

Not on offense. However, they could help out on defense.

Do immature boys get hurt more frequently than older students?

There is no more hazard for freshmen than for older men.

What would be the effect if we raised the ban now?

I believe it would stimulate freshman participation, particularly in sports other than football where they have a better chance of making the varsity team.

The Rector thanked Mr. Tebell for appearing and he left the meeting.

What position would it put Mr. Darden in if we reversed the action of the Senate?

I don't believe the rule ought to be relaxed. I regret that I have to differ with Dick Carrington.

I have no confidence that the Southern or Southeastern Conference will go back to the freshman rule at the end of this session. I think we are going to have to cross the bridge sooner or later.

You will recall the Southern Conference Presidents voted overwhelmingly against the use of freshman. There are four major reasons for my position.

(1) I believe abolishing the freshman rule would greatly limit the number of students who participate in football. That is why we have such a small squad this year.

(2) I do not believe a boy can do satisfactory academic work in his first year under the grind of varsity football.

(3) I think physically it is a mistake to put young boys in varsity competition.

(4) Abolishing the rule will impair the academic standing of the University.

The Secretary was asked to read a letter from Mr. Mears to Mr. Talbott in which Mr. Mears stated that he felt we should use freshmen if our competitors plan to use them.

The Rector read a letter from Dr. Emmett supporting Mr. Mears' position.

There are a great many temperate middle ground men on the Senate. It is awfully important that there be close cooperation between the governing board and academic groups of the University. I believe the reversal of the Senate would drive the faculty into the hands of the extremists. Mr. Tebell feels he can develop a satisfactory athletic program under the rules adopted by the Senate.

What is in the best interest of the general athletic program of the University? We are not trying just to win this year but to establish the best policy. We should not do something in derogation of the best interest of student participation in football.

I believe that if the freshman rule is a good rule, we should adhere to the principle and not vary from it this year.

Mr. Gay proposed the following resolution:

RESOLVED, that the rule prohibiting the playing of first year men in varsity athletic competition be adhered to.

If I thought the Southern Conference were going back to the freshman rule I would be more inclined to waive the rule for this year. However, if we relax the rule at this time it would be a bad thing. I believe freshmen will make better students if they do not participate. In the long run, I believe the University will be respected for its stand.

Does this resolution apply to all sports?

No, only to football.

Mr. Darden stated that he believes Mr. Carrington's question is important and he does not feel that one sport should be discriminated against.

After discussion of the matter, it was decided not to change the resolution, and leave the question of other sports to be decided upon at a later date if a petition were presented by the athletic authorities of the University.

Upon vote, the resolution was passed. Mr. Carrington and Mr. Mears asked to be recorded as voting No.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.