 TEI to HTML

ELECTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEEGIFTSRESIGNATIONLEAVES OF ABSENCEELECTIONSUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSAPPEARANCE OF ART COMMISSION RE: PHYSICS BUILDINGMEDICAL FACULTY SALARY PLANUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINEREPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PRIVATE PRACTICEI. BASIC CONSIDERATIONSII. TYPES OF ORGANIZATION OF CLINICAL STAFFS IN TEACHING HOSPITALSIII. PROPOSED REORGANIZATION OF PRIVATE PRACTICEIV. INTERIM PROGRAMUNIVERSITY INSURANCEDUNNINGTON PROPERTYESTATE OF HUGH E. VINCENTSUIT OF HENRY B. MASON AGAINST THE UNIVERSITYHOSPITAL DISCOUNTSCONSERVATION COMMISSION BUILDINGSEVEN SOCIETY STUDENT-FACULTY LOAN FUNDART SCHOOL
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the Gulf Red Cedar Company, a gift in memory of William J. Parrish, Jr., 1920, for the Woodrow Wilson School of Foreign Affairs

$10,000.00

From the National Fund for Medical Education, for the Medical School

4,845.00

From the Virginia Division, American Cancer Society, to finance a program of cancer education during the period February 1 through August 31, 1952

11,561.92

From the Rockingham Poultry Marketing Cooperative, Broadway, Virginia, for certain research to be conducted by the Engineering Experiment Station

1,000.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for psychological research under Dr. R. H. Henneman

14,858.76

From the Department of the Navy, for research in biology under Dr. Jacques Rappaport

8,756.00

From the Department of the Navy, for research in pharmacology under Dr. C. L. Gemmill

4,600.00

From the Department of the Navy, for continued research in chemistry under Prof. Allan T. Gwathmey

48,000.00

From the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for continued research under Dr. Alfred Chanutin of the Medical School

10,000.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for medical research under Dr. Grover C. Pitts

5,535.00

From the National Cancer Institute, U. S. Public Health Service, for cancer training under the direction of Dr. George Cooper

24,944.00

From the National Bureau of Standards, U. S. Department of Commerce, for engineering research under Prof. James C. Mace and Prof. R. M. Hubbard

75,000.00

From the Eli Lilly Company, in support of hematology research by Dr. Byrd S. Leavell

600.00

From the Old Dominion Foundation, for the session of 1951-52

7,500.00

Fluid Research & Development Fund

40 per cent

Clinicians

40 per cent

Departmental Reserve

20 per cent

University Division

Fire-resistive (AAA)

$12,799,929

Ordinary construction

4,543,475

Hospital

Fire-resistive (AAA)

2,950,000

Ordinary construction, sprinklered

556,250

Ordinary construction

39,000

Full Value

Insured Value

University Division

$17,343,404

$6,111,717

Hospital

3,545,250

1,583,695

$20,888,654

$7,695,412

New Cost

Old Cost

University Division

$11,184

$7,028

Hospital

2,015

1,87

$13,199

$8,895

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present: The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia, Visitors Barksdale, Carrington, Coxe, Emmett, Gay, Gravatt, Mears, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, Talbott, Wailes and Wheeler. Absent: Dr. M.L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College, Visitor Howard.

Mr. Smith and Miss Wheeler presented certificates of the oath of office taken by them as members of the Board of Visitors, Mr. Smith's dated April 4, 1952, and Miss Wheeler's dated March 13, 1952.

The following members were elected to the Executive Committee: The Rector, Mr. Black, Chairman, Mr. Gay, Mr. Carrington, and Mr. Mears

The President reported receipt of the following gifts and grants.

The following resignation was accepted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Stephen D. Tuttle, Associate Professor of Music, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1951-52. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking

The following leaves of absence were granted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Gordon Thomas Whyburn, Professor of Mathematics, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay for the session of 1952-53. He has been granted a Ford Foundation fellowship.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Lionel Weiss, Assistant Professor of Statistics, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay for the session of 1952-53 in order to take a temporary position at Cornell University.

The following elections were approved.

Dr. William Parker Anslow elected Professor of Physiology and chairman of the School of Physiology, effective September 1, 1952, at a salary of $10,000

Dr. Edwin Pratt Jordan elected Lecturer in Social and Environmental Medicine for one year, effective July 1, 1952, at no salary from the University.

Dr. Charles Linwood Savage elected Lecturer in Social and Environmental Medicine for one year, effective July 1, 1952, at no salary from the University

Mrs. Johanna C. G. Mountain elected Lecturer in Social and Environmental Medicine for one year, effective July 1, 1952, at no salary.

Dr. C. Adrian Rich elected Lecturer in Neurology and Psychiatry, effective May 1, 1952, at no salary.

Dr. Richard J. Ackart, Director of the University of Virginia Hospital, elected Lecturer in Social and Environmental Medicine for one year, effective July 1, 1952, at no salary.

The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules 269, 272, 275, 278 and 279, aggregating $19,748.41, recommended by them for cancellation.

The following members of the Art Commission appeared before the Board of Visitors: Mr. Louis W. Ballou, Mr. Floyd E. Johnson, and Mr. A. Edwin Kendrew, Chairman, together with Mr. Frank E. Hartman, Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds of the University. President Darden stated that he had asked these gentlemen to appear before the Board because he felt that their proposal was of such great importance to the future plan of the University that the Board should have an opportunity to hear it and discuss the matter with them.

Mr. Kendrew, chairman of the Commission, then stated that it was the feeling of the Commission that the University should not build the Physics Building just east of the present dormitory group but should go across the road from the dormitories, west of the Engineering School, and plan a new science area with all the buildings of contemporary architectural style Mr. Kendrew stated that the Commission felt it was particularly important in science buildings that modern architecture be utilized because the buildings could be much more functional in design; that the cost of construction would be less and the maintenance of such buildings would be less. It was the feeling of the Commission that if the University were ever to change from its classical design, now was the time to make the break, it was the sense of the Art Commission that the University should make this fundamental change in design.

Mrs. Smith pointed out that she thought it was quite significant that Mr. Kendrew, with his background of association with Colonial Williamsburg, should recommend a change from classical architecture

Mr. Talbott inquired if there was any compelling reason for the change. Mr. Kendrew said that he believed the architects could design a better Physics Building if they were not restricted by the requirement in classical design of having windows balancing windows, wings balancing wings, and other essential features of classical architecture.

Mr. Gay inquired of the Art Commission how they would act if they were members of the Board of Visitors and were asked to make a change from the classical architecture which had been followed here for more than one hundred twenty-five years. Mr. Kendrew, the chairman, replied that he realized it was a difficult decision but he thought that in the long run the University would benefit greatly from the change and that was why the Commission was recommending it.

The President thanked the members of the Art Commission for taking time to come here and appear before the Board, whereupon they were excused.

The President read a letter from the Physics faculty stating that they were highly pleased with the relocation of the site for the Physics Building. He also stated that he had a letter from the Engineering Dean stating that he thought it would be of great advantage to the Engineering School to have the Physics Building located adjacent to it.

The President said that he had asked the Physics faculty whether they felt modern architecture design was desirable to make the building more usable for the teaching of physics, and that the Physics faculty had assured him they were fully satisfied with the present classical design of the building. The President pointed out that Dean Lewis had told him that the Brooks Museum had won a national award for outstanding design of modern architecture at the time it was built.

The President then read from a letter from Mr. T. J. Young, of Eggers and Higgins, in which he states. "The site chosen for the Physics Building is a good one, and it should be judged in relation to a far-sighted view of the whole inevitable expansion of the University.

Judging the relocation of the Physics Building from a purely architectural point of view it is hard to see how any exception could be taken to it. Its cornice height will be at almost the exact level of the cornices of the men's (dormitory) group, which it adjoins. Its design and detail will be in complete harmony with the dormitories and with the engineering buildings

In summation, our views, which have been arrived at after a careful study of the master plan, are that the selected site for the Physics Building is well chosen and that the proposed design will be in complete harmony with the existing buildings."

Mr. Gay stated that he had just that morning walked over the site of the proposed Physics Building and he feels that we should use the area now planned for this building for additional dormitories. The President stated that he believed it was better to keep the dormitories on the periphery and build classroom buildings in the central area, because if the classroom buildings became too scattered it would be difficult for the boys to go from building to building between classes.

Mr. Talbott inquired if there would be any problems which would arise if we postponed the construction of the building until such time as plans for a new design could be prepared. The President said that there would be, that the appropriation was insufficient and that he hoped to advertise the building not later than May 1, so that the bids would be in prior to the end of the fiscal year, that he believed the Governor would have some funds available and that he might add to the appropriation from the conditional appropriation for this building made by the 1950 session of the Legislature.

Whereupon the following resolutions were adopted.

RESOLVED that the present design of the Physics Building, in classical style, be approved

Mrs. Smith voted in the negative.

RESOLVED that the site recommended by the architects be accepted for the Physics Building, that is, a site on the north side of McCormick Road directly across from the present Engineering buildings.

The President stated that the question had come up of what distance the building should be located from the road, in a line with the dormitories, or dropped back about twenty feet. It was the sense of the Board that this question should be left to the architects for determination.

Dr. Vernon Lippard, Dean of the Medical School, appeared before the Board to present a revised plan for compensation to members of the clinical staff. The Dean stated that his committee had reviewed the suggested changes made by the Board of Visitors and had incorporated them into the plan. He reviewed these changes, and the total plan, set forth below, was then approved by the Board.

The Dean was asked to send a copy of the plan to each member of the clinical staff with the request that its receipt be acknowledged and the plan accepted or rejected

Certain basic considerations must be kept in mind in determining the best policy for organization of private practice in the University Hospital and for remuneration of the Clinical Staff Among these considerations are the following

1\. The reasons for existence of the University Hospital are production of well-trained physicians, research and medical service.

2\. In order to provide proper instruction, there must be an adequate supply of patients and, to set a good example for the students, they must be given the best possible type of medical care.

3\. The institution is recognized by the people of the State as a center at which superior medical service can be obtained and it would not be in the best interest of the institution or the public to deny such service to those who can afford to pay for it. Therefore, provision for the care of private, as well as ward, patients is necessary.

4\. Clinicians, like other members of the faculty, should be compensated for time and effort devoted to teaching and research and on approximately the same basis as preclinical faculty members. The source of additional income must be private practice because, viewing the problem realistically, there is no hope of establishing a salary scale on State funds comparable to the income which may be available from private practice or at other medical schools.

5\. Income from private practice should not be used as it has been to maintain hospital equipment or services essential for the care of the hospitalized patients. The 20 per cent deduction now in force is a reasonable charge for employment of extra secretaries and office nurses and purchase of supplies and equipment for care of private ambulatory patients.

6\. The demand for and interest in teaching and research will never be the same for all members of the clinical staff. Some will devote the major share of their time and interest to teaching and research and others to private practice. It does not seem reasonable that those who are members of this group and spend a greater portion of their time and efforts in private practice should be compensated out of all proportion to those who devote more of their time to teaching, research and administrative activities which are of equal importance to the School. It should be recognized, however, that stresses incident to assumption of responsibility for life and death, day and night, regardless of academic sessions, constitutes a hazard to life and longevity to which only the clinician is subjected

7\. There are recognized advantages and disadvantages in the association with a medical school and teaching hospital. The advantages are more apparent to some than to others and only those who choose this type of life, realizing its restrictions and limitations in terms of financial return, can remain happy in it. Those who feel that a larger income and greater amount of freedom are more important considerations should not confine themselves to such an environment but should take advantage of the opportunity to practice independently and earn larger amounts without the restrictions which are inherent in institutional practice. As a corollary, however, it should be recognized that medical schools and teaching hospitals are of necessity in competition with each other and clinicians of high attainment cannot be attracted or retained on incomes out of all proportion to those available at similar institutions.

8\. The administration of the University should make a vigorous effort to increase and staff and to overcome inadequacies in facilities so that the burdens may be properly distributed and a pleasant working environment provided.

9\. The question of salaries cannot be divorced entirely from the whole problem of the organization of private practice in the Hospital. Further attention should be given to the development of methods of practice which will give the best service to patients yet conserve the time and energy of the staff. The fact that steps in this direction may require more cooperation between individual physicians and departments in the conduct of practice must be recognized

10\. Promotion in academic rank should be based on academic achievement rather than capacity to earn in private practice and earning allowance from practice should not be related directly to rank.

1\. Part-time, in which members of the faculty carry on their private practices outside of and entirely independent of the medical school and teaching hospital. They come to the hospital when they have teaching assignments, have the privilege of admitting private patients, usually are not engaged in research and receive little or no compensation from the medical school. This plan has not proven most suitable for development of strong schools and is gradually being discontinued.

2\. Straight full-time, in which all income from private practice is turned in to the institution and the staff is compensated on a straight salary basis. This plan is in operation completely only at the University of Chicago and partially at several other schools. It is probably not practical for a state institution where large salaries, regardless of the source of funds, cannot appear on state budgets.

3\. Geographical full-time, in which members of the clinical staff have offices within the teaching hospital, engage in various amounts of instruction, research and private practice. The school pays a basic salary and provides office space. The clinician reimburses the institution from private practice income for approximately the cost of rent, equipment and personnel, such a secretaries and office nurses, necessary for conducting practice efficiently. This plan usually entails some restriction in the amount of income from private practice.

This plan is considered the most desirable by medical schools throughout the United States, all new schools are adopting it and many older schools are working toward it. It provides a good balance between teaching and practice, good medical care for the patients and adequate attention to the medical students. Although we recognize certain deficiencies in our organization which interfere with its most efficient operation, the geographical full-time plan at the University of Virginia should be preserved.

In order to provide better service, to conserve the time and energy of the staff in care of private patients and to derive a larger income for development of the Medical School and Hospital, it is recommended that physicians services to private patients be organized on a cooperative basis.

To implement this recommendation, it is proposed (at such time as proper physical facilities can be provided and the details can be worked out):

1\. That a group clinic be established, to include all members of the clinical staff of the University Hospital who are appointed on a geographical full-time basis.

2\. That a clinic manager and secretarial and accounting staffs be employed by the clinical staff to handle the business affairs of the clinic.

3\. That a Private Clinic Committee be elected by the clinical staff annually and be delegated responsibility for determining the administrative policies of the Clinic including the Central Billing Office. The Dean of the Medical School shall be a member of this committee ex-officio

Pending further study and development of the program outlined in Section III, it is recommended that the following revision of the existing plan for conduct of private practice and compensation of the clinical staff be put into effect:

1\. A central office for distribution of bills for private services and collection of fees will be established.

(a) The cost of operating this service will be prorated on the basis of a formula which takes into consideration the amount collected and the number of bills distributed Charges will be made to the departments at the end of the fiscal year. The Fluid Research and Development Fund will be used as a source of capital during the year and reimbursed.

2\. Total income to the clinician shall consist of the basic salary paid by the University plus income from private practice within established limits.

3\. The basic salaries shall be flexible and adjusted to the teaching load and academic contribution of the individual.

4\. The regular net income allowance from private practice, as determined for each member of staff, shall be calculated by deducting 20 per cent of the gross income for departmental expenses.

5\. The net income allowance from private practice shall increase at the rate of $750.00 per year up to a maximum total income (basic salary plus practice earnings) of $20,000.00 without consideration of academic rank. Furthermore, in exceptional circumstances, the usual annual increment in practice earnings may be denied or doubled on agreement of the Departmental Chairman and the Dean. (All changes will be effective on July 1st. Members of the staff appointed between July and January should receive the first increase on the next July 1st, others, the following year.)

6.

(a) Practice earnings, up to prescribed limits, after the standard 20 per cent deduction has been made, may be withdrawn as accrued during the year.

(b) At the end of the year after all departmental expenses, as agreed upon by the Departmental Chairman, the Dean and the Bursar, have been met, the departmental surplus shall be divided as follows:

(The amount of the above allotted to each clinician shall be decided by mutual agreement of members of the department and with approval of the Dean.)

(c) New members of the staff, except full professors, will be appointed on a basis which excludes the privilege of participating in surplus earnings and these provisions may apply only after a period of trial of at least two years and on agreement of the Departmental Chairman and the Dean.

7\. The Departmental Reserve Funds shall be used to purchase equipment and for other necessary expenses which cannot be covered by current operating funds.

8\. The title to all equipment purchased with funds derived from current income, Departmental Reserve Funds or the Fluid Research and Development Fund shall rest in the University.

9\. The title to all money deposited in Departmental Reserve Funds and the Fluid Research and Development Fund shall rest in the University but shall be designated for these specific funds. In the event of the dissolution of a department, its Departmental Reserve Fund shall revert to the Fluid Research & Development Fund.

10\. If, because of death, resignation, retirement or incapacity due to illness, the clinician severs his connection with the University, income accrued, including accounts receivable, within his established limit and after deduction of the usual 20 per cent for overhead, shall be paid to him or his beneficiaries, within the limits of the plan as stated above.

11\. The budgets of all departments must be approved by the Dean and the President and all financial transactions must clear through the Bursar's Office and be subject to pre-audit.

12\. Each member of the staff will be expected to maintain a reasonable balance between academic responsibilities and private practice. The emphasis on each activity must at all times remain satisfactory to the Departmental Chairman and the administration.

13\. The plan of compensation shall be subject to review and individual compensation may be revised upward or downward, in keeping with economic trends, one year after the group practice plan is put into effect and/or at intervals of four years.

14\. The plan shall be retroactive to July 1, 1951.

The Secretary presented a plan to increase the insurance coverage on University buildings.

Under the auspices of the Charlottesville Insurance Exchange, an engineering survey of all University property has been made by representatives of the Automobile Insurance Company, Home Insurance Company and the Royal-Liverpool Insurance Group. The recommendations of the Exchange have been carefully reviewed by University representatives.

The values of the buildings seem to be reasonable in view of present construction costs. The total value placed on our buildings by the engineers is $20,888,654. This compares with approximately $9,000,000 value under our present insurance policies. The $20,888,654 is broken down as follows:

It is our recommendation that we carry 30% of insurable value on all fire-resistive AAA construction, that we carry 50% of value on ordinary construction other than sprinklered, and that we carry 90% on the sprinklered construction, the 90% on the sprinklered buildings being required by insurance regulations

Thus our insurance would be as follows.

The total cost of the new schedule as compared with the old schedule as is follows, using three-year premium rates:

At the time we were preparing our biennial budget requests last fall, preliminary data were secured from the insurance people so that additional money could be provided in the University budget to cover this insurance. Request was made in the biennial budget, and sufficient money has been appropriated to take care of the additional insurance

The cost figures quoted above do not include any insurance on equipment located in University buildings. The engineers making the survey said they were not qualified to evaluate our technical equipment. It was their recommendation that the University inventory this equipment and revise its present insurance.

President Darden and I have discussed this matter and we believe the insurance should be confined to fixed equipment installed in the several University buildings. We plan to solicit the assistance of the faculty and research staffs in arriving at appropriate values for scientific and technical equipment.

Mr. Gay inquired why the University was required to carry 90% coverage on sprinklered buildings. The Secretary pointed out that frequently the damage in sprinklered buildings was caused more by water than by fire, and that the insurance companies required a higher percentage of coverage to anticipate such losses. The Board approved the proposal.

The President stated that he had received a letter from Mr. William H. White, Jr., Treasurer of the Alumni Board of Trustees, stating that the City of Charlottesville had increased the assessment of the Dunnington property from $17,000 to $24,630. The University rents this property from the Alumni Board at $125 per month, which Mr. White stated was totally inadequate to pay the taxes and yield a reasonable return on the $45,000 investment of the Board. He asked if the Board of Visitors would not increase the rent sufficiently to take care of the additional tax burden. The President recommended that this action be taken, effective with the start of the new fiscal year

Whereupon a resolution was adopted increasing the rent on the Dunnington property sufficiently to take care of the additional tax burden recently imposed by increase in value assessment from $17,000 to $24,630, to be effective July 1, 1952.

On recommendation of Mr. Perkins, attorney for the University, the following preamble and resolution were adopted.

WHEREAS, the late Hugh E. Vincent of New Orleans, Louisiana, whose estate is being administered under No. 304-985 of the docket of the Civil District Court of Orleans Parish, Louisiana, has left a will under which he has named as usufructuary of certain property, his widow Mildred Saffold Vincent and under which he has named as naked owners of that certain property in the proportion of an undivided one-third to each (a) Trinity Church, (b) The Administrators of the Tulane Educational Fund and (c) The University of Virginia, and

WHEREAS, certain of the property which form the subject of this bequest consists of real estate in the City of New Orleans, and

WHEREAS, in connection with the administration of that property it will be necessary from time to time for prompt decisions to be reached by the parties in interest consisting of (a) the executors during their tenure of office, (b) the widow and usufructuary Mildred Saffold Vincent, and (c) the three naked owners, and in order to expedite such handling for the benefit of all concerned, it is desirable that the three naked owners have representatives in New Orleans authorized to act promptly

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT

RESOLVED, that Wayne G. Borah of New Orleans, Louisiana, be and he hereby is designated as the representative of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia generally known and designated as the "University of Virginia", for the purpose of acting in the premises.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the said Wayne G. Borah be and he hereby is authorized and empowered on behalf of said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in any case in which (a) the executors (during their tenure but not thereafter) and (b) the widow and usufructuary and (c) the other two naked owners concur in that action, to subscribe the name of this Institution to an endorsement upon a lease of any portion of the property included in said estate and in which this Institution has an undivided naked ownership interest as above set out, which lease shall be for a period not exceeding five years, which endorsement shall read substantially as follows:

"The undersigned Naked Owners of this property take cognizance of the above lease and if, as and when they come into full ownership of the property, they will assume the obligations of landlord under this lease in accordance with its terms and for the period which it designates."

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that in connection with the execution of any such lease the said representative is hereby authorized to consent to the charge against this Institution of its proportionate part in any expenditures (not in excess of $5,000.00 for the total of such expenditures in any one case), which under the Louisiana law are chargeable to the naked owners of the property in question.

The President reported that a student had been denied readmission to the University, after spending some time in the mental ward of the University Hospital. The student had filed suit in Federal court to force the University to readmit him. Mr. Perkins, University attorney, appeared in defense of the University, and the suit was dismissed by Judge Paul.

The Board approved payment to Mr. Perkins of a fee for legal services of $250.00, plus costs of $15.67.

The President stated that with the Blue Cross coverage now available to University employees, it was no longer necessary to provide discounts for employees of the Hospital and Medical School, and that he wished to inform the Board that these discounts were being withdrawn unless there was objection on the part of the Board

President Darden stated that Mr. Sidney S. Kellam, Director of the Conservation Commission, has asked for an easement to construct a building to be connected to the present Geological Survey building on McCormick Road just west of Alderman Road. The President stated that he desires to examine the land and determine just how much of an easement should be granted before formal action is taken by the Board. However, the Conservation Commission would like to proceed with the plans for the building unless there is objection by the Board.

The Seven Society Student-Faculty Loan Fund committee is desirous of investing part of its loan funds in a savings account, to offset any losses which may be suffered, as these loans are made without interest. The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Bursar be and he is hereby directed to open a savings account in the name of the University and to deposit therein such funds as the Seven Society Student-Faculty Loan Fund Committee may direct.

Mr. Gay asked that special consideration be given to this matter at the May meeting of the Board.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

University Division

Fire-resistive (AAA)

$12,799,929

Ordinary construction

4,543,475

Hospital

Fire-resistive (AAA)

2,950,000

Ordinary construction, sprinklered

556,250

Ordinary construction

39,000

Full Value

Insured Value

University Division

$17,343,404

$6,111,717

Hospital

3,545,250

1,583,695

$20,888,654

$7,695,412

New Cost

Old Cost

University Division

$11,184

$7,028

Hospital

2,015

1,87

$13,199

$8,895

Under the auspices of the Charlottesville Insurance Exchange, an engineering survey of all University property has been made by representatives of the Automobile Insurance Company, Home Insurance Company and the Royal-Liverpool Insurance Group. The recommendations of the Exchange have been carefully reviewed by University representatives.

The values of the buildings seem to be reasonable in view of present construction costs. The total value placed on our buildings by the engineers is $20,888,654. This compares with approximately $9,000,000 value under our present insurance policies. The $20,888,654 is broken down as follows:

It is our recommendation that we carry 30% of insurable value on all fire-resistive AAA construction, that we carry 50% of value on ordinary construction other than sprinklered, and that we carry 90% on the sprinklered construction, the 90% on the sprinklered buildings being required by insurance regulations

Thus our insurance would be as follows.

The total cost of the new schedule as compared with the old schedule as is follows, using three-year premium rates:

At the time we were preparing our biennial budget requests last fall, preliminary data were secured from the insurance people so that additional money could be provided in the University budget to cover this insurance. Request was made in the biennial budget, and sufficient money has been appropriated to take care of the additional insurance

The cost figures quoted above do not include any insurance on equipment located in University buildings. The engineers making the survey said they were not qualified to evaluate our technical equipment. It was their recommendation that the University inventory this equipment and revise its present insurance.

President Darden and I have discussed this matter and we believe the insurance should be confined to fixed equipment installed in the several University buildings. We plan to solicit the assistance of the faculty and research staffs in arriving at appropriate values for scientific and technical equipment.

University Division

Fire-resistive (AAA)

$12,799,929

Ordinary construction

4,543,475

Hospital

Fire-resistive (AAA)

2,950,000

Ordinary construction, sprinklered

556,250

Ordinary construction

39,000

Full Value

Insured Value

University Division

$17,343,404

$6,111,717

Hospital

3,545,250

1,583,695

$20,888,654

$7,695,412

New Cost

Old Cost

University Division

$11,184

$7,028

Hospital

2,015

1,87

$13,199

$8,895

Under the auspices of the Charlottesville Insurance Exchange, an engineering survey of all University property has been made by representatives of the Automobile Insurance Company, Home Insurance Company and the Royal-Liverpool Insurance Group. The recommendations of the Exchange have been carefully reviewed by University representatives.

The values of the buildings seem to be reasonable in view of present construction costs. The total value placed on our buildings by the engineers is $20,888,654. This compares with approximately $9,000,000 value under our present insurance policies. The $20,888,654 is broken down as follows:

It is our recommendation that we carry 30% of insurable value on all fire-resistive AAA construction, that we carry 50% of value on ordinary construction other than sprinklered, and that we carry 90% on the sprinklered construction, the 90% on the sprinklered buildings being required by insurance regulations

Thus our insurance would be as follows.

The total cost of the new schedule as compared with the old schedule as is follows, using three-year premium rates:

At the time we were preparing our biennial budget requests last fall, preliminary data were secured from the insurance people so that additional money could be provided in the University budget to cover this insurance. Request was made in the biennial budget, and sufficient money has been appropriated to take care of the additional insurance

The cost figures quoted above do not include any insurance on equipment located in University buildings. The engineers making the survey said they were not qualified to evaluate our technical equipment. It was their recommendation that the University inventory this equipment and revise its present insurance.

President Darden and I have discussed this matter and we believe the insurance should be confined to fixed equipment installed in the several University buildings. We plan to solicit the assistance of the faculty and research staffs in arriving at appropriate values for scientific and technical equipment.