 TEI to HTML

GIFTSLEAVE OF ABSENCERESIGNATIONPROMOTIONELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTMcGREGOR LIBRARY ADVISORY COMMITTEEUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSATHLETIC DEPARTMENT RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTSSTUDENT AID FOUNDATIONKAPRELIAN ESTATENEAR EASTERN PROFESSORSDUMAS MALONE'S REQUESTRUCKER HOME FOR CRIPPLED CHILDRENATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the Seven Society, to be added to the President's Discretionary Fund

$ 77.00

From the University Hospital Circle, for the purchase of drugs for indigent patients

100.00

From the American Association of University Women, for a scholarship in Graduate Studies

600.00

From E. I. duPont de Nemours and Company, for postgraduate fellowships in physics

2,914.00

From E. I. duPont de Nemours and Company for postgraduate fellowships in chemistry

3,342.00

From the estate of the late Mr. Otto Dunkel, to be added to the endowment fund of the University

1,855.22

From the General Motors Corporation, for a fellowship in physical chemistry for the session 1953-54

2,300.00

From Mr. Bayard Sharp, for an Indonesian fellowship in the Woodrow Wilson Department of Foreign Affairs

1,500.00

From the University League, for a fellowship in the Department of Speech

625.00

From Mr. J. C. Towle, for the J. H. Towle Memorial Scholarship

500.00

From the W. K. McClure Foundation, for a fellowship in Foreign Affairs during the session 1953-54

$ 600.00

From the Doherty Foundation, for the support of the Woodrow Wilson Department of Foreign Affairs

12,700.00

From the Bristol Heart Committee, for research under Dr. Preston Lowrance

300.00

From the Smith, Kline, French Company for research under Dr. Preston Lowrance

1,500.00

From the Student Aid Foundation, for athletic grants-in-aid

1,500.00

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present: The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Visitors Barksdale, Carrington, Coxe, Gay, Gravatt, Mears, Mrs. Smith, Talbott, Wailes, and Wheeler. Absent: Dr. M. L. Combs, President, Mary Washington College, Visitors Emmett, Howard, and Mr. Smith.

The minutes of the meeting of 11 September 1953, previously distrubuted, were approved.

The President reported receipt of the following gifts and grants.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Charles H. Lupton, Jr., Assistant Professor of Pathology, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay, effective July 1, 1953, for military duty.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Archibald Anderson Hill, Professor of the English Language, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the first semester of the session of 1953-54. He has accepted a position on the faculty of Georgetown University. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. John Francis Hahn, Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, be and he is hereby promoted to Assistant Professor of Psychology as of the beginning of the session of 1953-54.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Dr. Cornelia Hoch-Ligeti, as Assistant Professor of Pathology, effective September 1, 1953, at a salary of $6,000, $2,008 to be paid from State funds and the rest from research grants and departmental funds.

Dr. L. S. Pearce, as Instructor in Pathology, effective September 1, 1953, at a total salary of $5,700, $3,600 from State funds and the remainder from departmental funds and the National Fund for Medical Education.

Mr. Robert Fones Williams, as Instructor in Mathematics for the session of 1953-54, at a salary of $3,000.00.

Dr. Harry Finestone, as Instructor in English for the session of 1953-54 at a salary of $3,400.00.

Dr. Ernest E. Graham, as Lecturer in Neurology and Psychiatry, effective September 1, 1953, at no salary from the University.

Mr. John M. Stacey, as Lecturer in Social and Environmental Medicine, effective July 1, 1953, at no additional salary.

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on July 14, 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps programs, the following appointment was announced by the President:

First Lieutenant Fred B. Stevenson, as Assistant Professor of Military Science and Tactics, effective about December 1, 1953, at no salary from the University. This is a replacement for Lieutenant Gaines.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, pursuant to the articles of the Deed of Gift of McGregor Fund of Detroit, Mr. Clifton Waller Barrett, of New York, and Mr. Robert Baylor Tunstall, of Norfolk, be and they are hereby appointed representatives-at-large to the Advisory Committee of the McGregor Library of the University of Virginia for the five-year period beginning 1 July 1953.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible hospital accounts Schedules 385, 388, and 389, aggregating $39,966.49, recommended by them for cancellation.

Copies of the Department of Athletics' "Statement of Receipts and Disbursements, Intercollegiate Athletics, for the year July 1, 1952 to June 30, 1953" having been laid before the Board, the Secretary was directed to supply copies to the Athletic Committee for temporary use, and, after their return, to submit the original and two carbon copies to the Director of the Budget.

The President laid before the Board a letter of 7 October 1953 from the National Collegiate Athletic Association (signed by Walter Byers, Executive Director) stating that the proposals advanced by the Virginia Student Aid Foundation (In Point 5 of the memorandum dated 8 September 1953, and submitted in President Darden's letter of 29 September 1953) are inconsistent with the interpretations of NCAA legislation by the NCAA Council. The Secretary was directed to furnish a copy of this letter to each member of the Board.

The Board adopted a resolution approving the President's action in releasing to Miss Grace Grant and her brother, Robert H. Grant title to Plot 23 in the Cemetery of the First Congregational Church of Old Greenwich, Connecticut.

The President laid before the Board a letter from Professor John Gange, Director of the Woodrow Wilson Department of Foreign Affairs, stating the nature of courses to be taught in the 1953-54 session by visiting professors from the Near East. The Secretary was directed to supply a copy of the letter to each member of the Board.

President Darden reported a request from Mr. Dumas Malone, historian at Columbia University, and honorary Consultant in Biography at the University of Virginia, for an extension of his lease on the land on Copeley Hill, near the Old Ivy Inn. It was resolved that this matter be deferred until the next meeting.

The President reported that long-range planning for the work with crippled children called for a division of the work between the hospital center and the site of the old Rucker Home west of the University on Route 250. In the light of the unanimity of opinion by the various consultants that the old house ought to be demolished, he requested authority to proceed with demolition. The Board resolved that the President be authorized to proceed with demolition when he deemed the time appropriate.

The Rector opened discussion of the proposal to join the Atlantic Coast Athletic Conference, which was the primary business of the meeting, by presenting to the Board the following documents

1\. Letter from the Lynchburg Chapter of the Alumni Association, enclosing copy of a motion endorsing entry into the Atlantic Coast Conference. Copies have been sent to members of the Board.

2\. Letter from Mr. Robert E. Taylor, a Charlottesville alumnus, in favor of joining the Atlantic Coast Conference.

3\. A mimeographed "Pro and Con" list, prepared by Mr. Gus K. Tebell, citing eight arguments in favor of and seven arguments against membership in the Atlantic Coast Conference. A copy is filed with the Secretary.

4\. Letter from the University Athletic Council urging a decision by the Board in favor of ACC membership.

The President read a letter from the Maryland Chapter of the Alumni Association reporting that the Council of the Chapter is opposed to ACC membership by a 17 to 2 majority.

Mr. Hunter Faulconer, President of the Alumni Association of the University, was presented to the Board by the Rector.

Mr. Faulconer spoke, in substance, as follows: I have nothing official to report. The Board of Managers discussed the ACC proposal at our last meeting three weeks ago. There are rabid people on each side. No vote was taken. I have heard from a few chapters, and most of them were split. There is general approval of the program of the last fifteen years. We must have the program as we've had it in order to get the high school students. The Maryland and Washington chapters are strongly opposed to the new Conference.

Is Maryland the big obstacle with our people in Maryland and Washington?

Yes.

How about others, Wake Forest for example?

They never get that far. They stop at Maryland.

What conditions exist today which change the picture from what it was when we withdrew from the Southern Conference in 1936?

We've changed. The honor system was the point then. We required athletes to sign a pledge that they received no aid outside of their families.

Under the Graham Plan, the Southern Conference permitted no aid, though everyone knew it was given in many cases. The NCAA rulings are more realistic.

But wouldn't we be under obligations to the NCAA which our President would sign and which our President would fulfill? Do you think that Maryland and Wake Forest, for example, might violate them, just as North Carolina did in the old Conference? Then we would have the same old conditions which drove us out of the Southern Conference.

But we now have the NCAA as a yardstick and a policing authority to whom the President could appeal.

Following expressions of misgiving on this point by Messrs. Black and Gay, Mr. Gravatt stated that in our Southern Conference days everybody gave lip service to Simon pure amateurism, while many followed a contrary rule in practice. Any financial aid meant professionalism in the Olympics and everywhere else. We were in a hypocritical and impossible situation. Our athletes were discriminated against, as compared with other students, having to sign a no-aid pledge, or have one signed for them. By our independent stand, we have influenced athletics into a saner approach. Subsidies are now generally allowed if handled through regular scholarship committees. It is true that at some institutions scholastic work is tampered with, and other evils arise.

Do ACC members have to obey NCAA rules?

Yes.

Then if we enter the ACC and play Maryland, we will know that, in the opinion of our Alumni groups, Maryland will violate the ACC rules?

Yes.

Have the ACC rules been adopted?

Only in part, Southern Conference rules will be binding until ACC rules are completed.

Schools like North Carolina and Duke are in the Conference. I think we have mutuality of thought with those schools. Our influence added to theirs would have great weight towards insuring proper rules and real enforcement of them.

What is your personal opinion, Mr. Faulconer?

I would like to join and be in on the rules making. It would be good for all our minor sports. In spite of Maryland's mania on football, our relations have been good in other sports.

Isn't scheduling a serious problem if we are not in a conference?

Yes. Duke won't schedule us until we decide about the ACC. We would like membership in the Ivy League, but can't get that. ACC membership will not limit us to competition in that Conference. We couldn't enter unless allowed to play Virginia teams.

Do you think that Alumni thought is sufficiently crystallized to allow the Board to act in accord with Alumni wishes if it should choose to do so?

No, you will be severely criticized, whatever you do.

The Rector thanked Mr. Faulconer, who then withdrew.

Mr. Nelson T. Offutt was next presented to the Board by the Rector, who asked if he brought an official statement of opinion from the Student Aid Foundation.

I have three viewpoints to present. The Board of the Student Aid Foundation met last Saturday, and voted 9 to 3 in favor of ACC membership, but they imposed conditions which qualify their vote. The Maryland Alumni Council has voted 17 to 2 against membership. I am myself strongly opposed to joining the ACC.

The nine members who voted for ACC membership stated that they are willing for the University to join only upon condition that the Board of Visitors shall announce some athletic program which will indicate strong backing for the ACC and the whole athletic program. By "strong backing" they mean 100 per cent cooperation from the Board, the President, and the Faculty. By "100 per cent cooperation" they mean a high priority on inter-collegiate athletics in the conduct of University affairs; in the case of the Faculty, for example, they mean a lowering of academic standards for the sake of winning teams.

Mr. Offutt then reiterated his strong aversion to ACC membership, stated his feelings regarding an institution where Lacrosse teams are subsidized, and gave a vivid description of athletic and academic practices in a "cooperative" institution.

How would Acc membership affect our capacity to play these teams?

As we are now, we can pick and choose, and we have a wide field to choose from. None of these ACC schools has played Harvard, Pennsylvania, Princeton, and others of the same caliber as we have done these last fifteen years. How will we get players if we are at the bottom of a conference in which scholastic standards are being lowered?

Isn't there scheduling trouble?

It is so reported, but I don't believe it. If we really made the effort, we could schedule other reputable schools, such as Dartmouth, Colgate, etc.

Mr. Tebell says that Ivy League schools cannot continue scheduling us because they need big-money teams for any "extra", non-conference game.

Gentlemen, I urge that you do something, regardless of what it is. Please don't procrastinate. I will support any decision you make.

What about the Foundation's request that we announce a decisive athletic policy? What more can the Board do than was done in the former statement?

I do not think there is anything more you can do. The demand was unreasonable. As far as the faculty is concerned, I don't think they could ever all agree of a single policy. Of course there are always rumors about faculty attitudes; but those concerning faculty prejudice towards athletes have proved unfounded when investigated

A weakening of academic standards would never be consented to by the Board

It is my belief that Maryland, Wake Forest, Duke, and North Carolina State will all lower scholastic standards.

In response to further questioning by Messrs. Carrington, Gay, and Gravatt, Mr. Offutt reviewed his earlier arguments, with special emphasis on. (1) his fear of the competitive lure of an easy degree, and (2) the strong psychological disadvantage of being in a conference and at the bottom of it.

Mr. Offutt withdrew after being thanked by the Rector.

The Rector presented to the Board Mr. Mortimer Caplin, Chairman of the Athletic ("3-2-2") Council.

The Council has been much impressed with Meb Turner's views of the fine effect of conference membership on the competitive spirit of teams, including the minor sports, when conference titles are at stake. Scheduling of teams in minor sports is especially difficult for non-conference members. Moreover, the Council feels that ACC membership will be a forthright position, a continuation of a sane policy. We regret our late entrance if that will weaken our influence in establishing proper rules.

Has the Council taken action by vote?

Yes, last May and again on September 25th. The vote was unanimous, but there was one absentee. The Council, you will recall, consists of three faculty members, two alumni, and two students. Mr. Tebell attends meetings, but has no vote.

Is there any crystallized faculty feeling?

I can't answer that. The Law Faculty discussed the Gooch report, and took no final action.

How do you fee about playing Maryland?

I don't think we would be contaminated by one game a year.

Is the Ivy League a conference now?

In practice, yes, Sir. They play each other.

How many free games would we have in the Conference? Could we still meet our traditional rivals?

And would six conference games be a maximum in the ACC?

Yes, we would have three free games. If we adopt a ten-game schedule, as the coach wants us to do, we would have four free games.

In response to further questioning by Messrs. Gay and Talbott, Mr. Caplin expressed the opinion that ACC rules are not yet finally formulated, that we would have a voice in their formulation if we joined, and that we should insist on the adoption of NCAA rules. The Rector then thanked Mr. Caplin, who withdrew from the meeting.

The Rector presented Mr. Gus K. Tebell to the Board, and asked for his opinions on the proposed joining of the ACC.

Mr. Tebell reviewed his "Pro and Con" list, previously submitted, with special emphasis on football as an economic factor, scheduling problems, and minor sports competition. Minor sports, he added, are no longer "minor", the same Varsity letter being given for all.

Can we get Ivy League games?

We cannot get Harvard until two years from now. We may be able to schedule Dartmouth and Pennsylvania.

Can we schedule Princeton?

No. The ACC has been set up as a "playing" conference, requiring six games. Duke will not schedule us unless we enter. As regards other sports, we haven't played North Carolina or Duke in basketball for ten years. The Southern Conference has required a 14-game schedule inside the Conference.

How much subsidization is there in other sports?

There is very little outside of football and basketball.

Have the ACC rules been adopted?

A rules committee has been appointed. Southern Conference rules are in force for the present.

Do Southern Conference rules agree with ours?

Not entirely. The Southern Conference requires players to pass 12 semester hours of class work. We require 9 hours. Their freshman rules are the same as ours. Freshmen are not played.

How do you answer your own argument on your list of "Cons", what do we have in common with Maryland, Wake Forest, and Clemson?

The feeling against Maryland results from their recent ruthless attitude in building a football team. We play them in all other sports, and relations are good. Wake Forest has a fine president, and I think he will carry out his promise to square 'em away when they move to the new location. Clemson I know little about.

To what extent will Maryland obey any rules?

I believe that Maryland is really going to have a new administration, and I think that there is a national tendency to level off in athletic policy. I believe Maryland will fall in line with that tendency.

The Rector thanked Mr. Tebell, who then withdrew.

The Rector asked President Darden for a statement of his opinion.

After long and careful reflection on this matter, I believe we ought to remain independent. There are persuasive voices on both sides of this question. Gordon Gray wants us in the Conference. The President of Duke has assured me that Duke will play us whenever possible, whether we are in the Conference or not. The Virginia schools and George Washington University have urged us either to join the Southern Conference or to stay independent.

There are three reasons for my view that we should remain independent. First of all, I don't want to alienate the Maryland and Washington Alumni. They are close to this issue, and they feel very strongly about it.

Then I am opposed to detaching the University from the other Virginia schools. I think it would have a bad effect on our position within the State. North Carolina is in a different position. She took three other North Carolina schools into the Conference with her.

If we apply the 12-hour rule here in athletics, we will actually be discriminating against athletes, and we can't live with our football team. We will lose the players. Our academic standards are high, and the scholastic gap between the smaller high schools and the University is difficult. We have made great progress with this problem. There is a big increase this year in the number of non-subsidized high school boys on our teams. We want these high school boys. Our future strength in athletics, as in every other respect, lies with the high school boys of Virginia.

The Gatlin incident is a case in point. Mr. Gatlin dropped football for the sake of his education and his degree. He has succeeded in adjusting himself to the scholastic standards here, and he will probably be able to play football again, without a subsidy, next year.

If we step up our nine-hour rule to the twelve-hour conference rule, I take it we will be shutting out Virginia high school boys.

The faculty here are cooperative in the sense that they are wholeheartedly behind what we are doing. What has been said elsewhere about "cooperation" means nothing but a lowering of standards.

If our nine-hour rule is lower, we will be subject to criticism.

A nine-hour rule for first-year students and a twelve-hour rule thereafter might be feasible.

The big gap is in the first year. The high school people do better in the second and later years.

This is true also in the other colleges.

As a practical matter, would our scheduling of Virginia schools be affected by ACC membership?

No, but our joining the ACC and leaving them out would hurt us with them and with their alumni.

If we join the ACC we will never have a chance to play Harvard, George Washington, and similar teams.

Should we sit down with a group who will violate any rules we adopt? I am opposed to any such conference.

I am exceedingly reluctant to differ with the President's judgment, but I do favor joining the ACC. The Department of Athletics is the only University department which supports itself. We require Mr. Tebell to raise three-fourths of the money for running athletics. Our athletics are commercialized whether we like it or not. If we remain aloof, we will in time be unable to schedule Conference members like North Carolina. Revenues will diminish along with interest in our program. But we cannot afford to raise money for athletics in the manner of the University of Chicago. Nor are we in a position, like Oxford or Cambridge, to ignore athletics and public relations. The Graham plan was like Prohibition. The ACC approach is an admission of evils and a plan for their control. Our influence will be great in the ACC. Duke and North Carolina want us there because they respect us and want our weight on their side. Within the ACC, we can put our finger on a bad actor and hold him up before the NCAA. I am heartily behind our whole scholastic program. I think we should stick by it, join the ACC, adopt the twelve-hour rule, and lose football players if we must.

We will be a conspicuous target if it appears that our reason is really a weaker scholastic standard as measured in hours.

I am inclined to agree with Mr. Talbott

We shouldn't be too final about joining a conference until we have a positive invitation to join.

I hope the larger issues will not be lost sight of. We should be mindful of the overriding importance of scholastic affairs, and our position in Virginia and in the country as an educational institution.

I am inclined to favor the ACC. I am doubtful that there would be political injury, and most Alumni I know are in favor of it. I believe that the prospect of ACC membership is already drawing students here.

Wouldn't we have a static condition in our schedule?

We could rotate within the Conference, and we could rotate among the Virginia teams.

I doubt that North Carolina and Duke will actually play us outside of the Conference. We have the athletic program, the subsidized athletes, and the scholarships. The financial problem raised by Mr. Talbott is important. The twelve-hour requirement is even more important. It is the most critical and troublesome issue that has been raised. We should be very sure of a solution to this, such as a differing standard for freshmen and second year men before we join.

I feel the great importance of the scholastic question raised by Mrs. Wailes. To my mind, however, the athletic program is basic to everything else. Our overall strength will depend on a healthy athletic situation.

If we join, we will be returning to exactly the same situation we withdrew from in the Southern Conference. Rules will be laid down; we will obey them, others will violate them. One ACC member is reported to have been found in violation of Southern Conference rules on the day the ACC was organized. Another is reported to guarantee degrees to football players. In such an alliance we will find ourselves in an increasingly difficult situation. Our Alumni are not in support of ACC membership. In Washington and Maryland they are opposed, in Norfolk they are split, they are split elsewhere, as shown in the report brought to us by the Alumni Council.

At the request of the Rector, Mr. Talbott then presented the following resolution, which was adopted by a six to four vote:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President of the University be and he is hereby authorized to accept an invitation to membership in the Atlantic Coast Athletic Conference, provided that no conditions of membership are imposed which conflict with the athletic policies of the University, and provided that an invitation is received.

Voting for the resolution: Visitors Barksdale, Carrington, Coxe, Gravatt, Mears, and Talbott.

Against the resolution: Rector Black and Visitors: Mrs. Smith, Wailes, and Wheeler.

It was ruled that the opinion favorable to ACC membership expressed by Dr. Emmett in his letter should not count as a vote, and that the unfavorable opinion expressed by Mr. Gay should not be counted.

Mr. Gay had been obliged, for reasons beyond his control, to withdraw from the meeting before the resolution came to a vote. He asked that his opposition to joining the ACC be placed in the record, and he stated that if he could remain for the vote, his vote would be against the resolution.

On motion, the meeting was then adjourned.