 TEI to HTML

A called meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 8.00 p.m. in the Board Room of Alumni Hall, at the University, in Charlottesville, in conference with a Committee of the Senate of the University's Faculty. Board members present were the Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Visitors Dunn, Emmett, Gravatt, McWane, Mears, Mr. Smith, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Barksdale, Coxe, Gray, Howard, Mrs. Smith, and Talbott. Present from the Senate Committee were the Chairman, Hardy C. Dillard, and Professors Gooch, Moffatt, and Ribble. Absent: Professor Hale.

The members of the Senate Committee having been welcomed to the meeting by the Rector, a general, informal discussion was held on the subject of intercollegiate athletics and the place of the University therein, with particular reference to (1) the role of the Faculty in the control of the University's athletic policy, and (2) the proper direction of University athletic policy as regards football.

The points raised in a letter addressed to the Board by the Senate Committee on November 5th were discussed in detail, and a copy of the letter was ordered to be filed with the minutes of this meeting. Despite some differences of opinion as to the effect upon the Faculty's position in regard to athletics resulting from the Board's Report on Athletics of June 1953 (in response to a Senate Resolution of September 1952), there was general agreement on (1) the importance of continuing Faculty attention to the subject, and (2) the desirability of fielding representative student football teams against similar teams of other institutions

As an outcome of the discussion, President Darden agreed to explore, through their presidents, the attitudes of other institutions in the area. Mr. Darden pointed out that such exploration would require time, and that the successful prosecution of any athletic policy requires the positive and active support of all elements of each participating institution

On motion the meeting was then adjourned