 TEI to HTML

GIFTS AND GRANTSDEATH OF CHARLES HENRY KAUFFMANNRESIGNATIONLEAVE OF ABSENCEELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTSUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSPAYMENT OF STUDENT FEESPROPOSED STATEMENT FOR CATALOGSPAYMENT OF FEESAPPLICATION FEESREQUEST OF PROFESSOR DUMAS MALONEMR. BERNARD CHAMBERLAIN'S REQUEST FOR EASEMENTCHANGE OF TITLE FOR DEAN FERGUSONDISPOSAL OF COPELEY HILL BUILDINGSRENEWAL OF VINCENT ESTATE LOANINTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETICS, RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTSPROFESSOR GWATHMEY'S PROTESTALUMNI HALL PARKING LOTVACANT LOTS AND LANDSNOVEMBER MEETING OF THE BOARDMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSADVANCE DEPOSIT OF STUDENT FEESCOLLEGE AFFAIRS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Charles Pfizer and Company, to be added to the Pfizer Scholarship Fund for medical students

$ 1,000.00

From the Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation, for a fellowship in physics for the session 1954-55

3,300.00

From the E. I. duPont deNemours Company, for a postgraduate fellowship in physics for the session 1954-55

3,064.00

From the E. I. duPont deNemours Company, for a postgraduate fellowship in chemistry for the session 1954-55

3,115.00

From the University League, for a fellowship in the Department of Speech

625.00

From the Student Aid Foundation, for athletic grants-in-aid

10,000.00

From the Doherty Foundation, for the Woodrow Wilson Department of Foreign Affairs

$22,000.00

From the Westinghouse Educational Foundation, for an achievement scholarship in Engineering for the session 1954-55

500.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for continued research under Dr. C. G. Speidel, Department of Anatomy

2,000.00

From Mrs. Alice Fewell, for the Medical School

100.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for continued research under Dr. W. O. Klingman, Department of Psychiatry

15,000.00

From the National Institute of Health, for continued research under Dr. Byrd S. Leavell of the Department of Medicine

3,888.00

From the National Institute of Health, for research under Dr. C. L. Gemmill, of the Department of Medicine

7,596.00

From the National Institute of Health, for continued research under Dr. Byrd S. Leavell, of the Department of Medicine

7,560.00

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Visitors Barksdale, Coxe, Dunn, Gray, Mears, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, Talbott, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Emmett, Gravatt, Howard, and McWane

The minutes of the meeting of September 10th, previously distributed, were approved

The President reported receipt of gifts and grants as follows

President Darden announced to the Board the death on 3 September 1954 of Professor Charles Henry Kauffmann, Director of Student Personnel and Placement. There were expressions from the President, the Rector, and several Visitors on the affection and esteem in which Mr. Kauffman was held, and the Secretary was directed to record in the permanent minutes the deep sense of loss felt by the Board in Mr. Kauffmann's death, and its gratitude for his devoted and valuable services to the University

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Harold W. Ward, as Clinical Instructor in Opthalmology, be and it is hereby accepted as of July 1, 1954

We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Otis L. Updike, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay for the session of 1954-55 to accept a position at the Naval Air Missile Test Center at Point Mague, California

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Dr. Evan G. Pattishall, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Educational Research, at a session salary of $4,450.00, effective at the beginning of this session

Dr. Rouhollah Ramazani, as Lecturer in Middle Eastern Affairs in the Department of Foreign Affairs for the session of 1954-55, at a salary of $2,400

Mr. David Jameson Gibson, as Lecturer in Architecture for the session of 1954-55, at a salary of $1,500.00

Dr. Anthony V. Passaretti, as Instructor in Urology, effective September 15, 1954, at a salary of $5,000 per year to be paid from departmental earnings.

Mr. David B. Lowdenslager, as Instructor in Mathematics for the session of 1954-55, at a salary of $3,300.00

Mr. Theodore W. Gibson, as Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics at the Clinch Valley Center of the Extension Division at a salary of $4,200.00 for the session

The President announced that in accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on July 14, 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps program, the following appointments have been made

Captain Nelson T. Levings, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Air Science, at no salary from the University, effective September 7, 1954

Captain James R. Dent, as Assistant Professor of Military Science and Tactics, at no salary from the University. He will report about November 1

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 474, 477 and 478, aggregating $24,046.24, as recommended by them

Members requested that the wording of this resolution be adhered to in future resolutions on uncollectible accounts so that the Board's action would not have the effect of absolutely cancelling the accounts. The opinion was also expressed that efforts should continue in the General Assembly to get the counties to contribute a reasonable portion of the costs of indigent patients

President Darden presented a letter from the Comptroller, enclosing the following statement

All fees are payable at the office of the Bursar. No student is permitted to complete registration or to attend classes until all fees are paid. Fees for each semester are due and payable at the time of registration

In exceptional cases, the student may sign a contract for term charges permitting payments as follows

First Semester - One-third at the time of registration, one-third on November 3, one-third on December 3

Second Semester - One-third at the time of registration, one-third on March 3, one-third on April 3

A student who fails to meet payments when due, but who pays his fees on or before the fifteenth of the month in which payment is due, is charged a service fee of $1.00. A student who fails to meet payments by the fifteenth of the month in which payment is due will be automatically suspended and may not attend classes until he has been officially reinstated and has paid all accrued fees and a reinstatement fee of $5.00.

A student suspended for failure to meet payments when due may not be reinstated for the semester after two weeks from the date of suspension. Applications for reinstatement are to be made at the office of the Bursar.

The Board resolved that the foregoing statement be inserted in all catalogues issued hereafter by the University

President Darden read to the Board a letter of September 30 from Mr. Raymond Bice, Director of Admissions, referring to the problem of late applications and failures to register by students who apply and are accepted into the undergraduate schools. Mr. Bice proposed the following rules relative to application fees: (1) The fee to be ten dollars ($10.00), (2) Non-Virginia applicants to pay the fee upon making application, (3) Rejected applicants to receive a refund of five dollars ($5.00), and (4) Accepted students who fail to register to receive no refund

The Board resolved that these four proposals be adopted and put into effect in the case of all future applicants for admission to undergraduate schools of the University

President Darden inaugurated a discussion of the request received from Mr. Dumas Malone, Professor of History at Columbia University, Honorary Consultant in the University of Virginia Faculty, and Jefferson biographer, for permission to build a house on University property, in the edge of the Copeley Hill area, to facilitate his future research in the Alderman Library

After discussion the Board resolved that the President be authorized to negotiate with Mr. Malone a tentative agreement incorporating a reversionary right and also the right by the University, in the event of emergency need, to purchase the proposed house at a depreciated value

The President laid before the Board correspondence with Mr. Bernard P. Chamberlain covering Mr. Chamberlain's request for an easement to construct a road approximately 25′ by 50′ connecting his "Midmont" property with the University's road around Middle Mountain, near the University Maintenance Shop, and for the right to connect with the University's sewer line Mr. Darden said that, on advice from the Buildings and Grounds Department, he could not recommend the sewer line connection, but that he did favor the easement for the right of way. After discussion that was favorable to cooperating with Mr. Chamberlain in providing for a right of way, the Board resolved that the President be authorized to negotiate with Mr. Chamberlain a tentative agreement, giving preference in the preliminary negotiation to an appraisal and sale of the right of way over a dedication of the land to use as a public road

President Darden discussed with the Board the need for securing a dean for the College and the delays in regard to making a selection, on which a new committee is now working. He praised Dr. Ferguson for his generous attitude in agreeing to carry this work for an additional year. The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. George O. Ferguson, Registrar of the University and Acting Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences be and he is hereby elected Registrar of the University and Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, without change in salary and effective as of the beginning of the present session.

The President, having reminded the Board of the resolution of last March authorizing the proper administrative officer of the University to sell five specific buildings in Copeley Hill, presented a letter from Mr. Shea reporting another building ready for disposal and pointing out that several more of the structures ought to be razed during the next two or three years. The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President and Comptroller of the University be and they are hereby authorized by accept bids and to dispose of the various buildings at Copeley Hill from time to time, and in accordance with existing statutes and regulations, as they are no longer suitable for use to the University.

The Comptroller's letter of September 27th requesting authority to renew for another three years the $46,607.12 loan, due on October 13th, covering costs in connection with the Vincent estate, was presented by President Darden, who reminded the Board that the University has a contingent interest in the Vincent estate of approximately one million dollars. The Board resolved that the Comptroller be authorized to extend the loan as requested

Mr. Talbott, Chairman of the Athletics Committee, led a discussion of the Report on Receipts and Disbursements, Intercollegiate Athletics, for the year beginning on 1 July 1953, and ending on 30 June 1954, copies of which had been laid before the Board. Mr. Talbott called attention to an excess of $11,000 in disbursements over receipts, a deficit resulting from a poor football year, in which receipts were low, and paid from the surplus of the preceding year

The Secretary was ordered to submit the original and two copies of this Report to the Director of the Budget, in Richmond, prior to December 31st, as required by law, and to file a copy with the minutes of this meeting.

The Rector reported that he had received on the previous evening a letter from Mr. Allan T. Gwathmey protesting against the decision reached by the Board on September 10th not to hear Mr. Gwathmey and Mr. Runk on the athletic question. In the discussion that followed there were general expressions of approval of the position taken in September that the Board should wait to hear from the Athletic Committee of the Senate, and ought not in the meantime to hear any member of the faculty on the subject. The Rector stated that he would reply to Mr. Gwathmey's letter.

Pointing out that no resolution from the Board was actually needed, President Darden invited attention to a proposal presented by Mr. Edwin Meade, President of the Alumni Association, to purchase for the Association from the Alumni Board of Trustees the vacant land north of Alumni Hall, on Emmet Road, and to maintain it as a parking lot for University and Alumni use Mr. Darden observed that control of any future construction on the site ought to rest with the University. Mr. Talbott and other Visitors discussed in favorable terms the Alumni Association proposal

The following letter from the Comptroller was read to the Board

At the June meeting I was requested to furnish the Board with a list of vacant lots and lands owned by the University

We have examined all the records of the University, including the file of wills and trust instruments, and have found the following pieces of property

1 Estate of William J. Humphreys

90 acres mountain land in Wayne County, West Virginia. On February 12, 1954, sale at $3,000 was approved by the University and the Washington Loan and Trust Company, Trustees, under Dr. Humphreys' will, but sale fell through. Widow and other heirs have life interest

2 Estate of Joseph Harvey Riley

Residence in Falls Church, Virginia, with 8.312 acres, to become the property of the University of Virginia at the death of Mr. Riley's sisters, Margaret R. Parker and Maude K. Gage

3 Estate of Bertha L. Makinson

10 acres of wooded land in Princess Anne County, Virginia Mr. Black is familiar with this land, I believe

4 Estate of Mazyck Wilson Shields

20 acres of land in Marion County, Florida, valued at $10.00 an acre. Offer of $92.50 for the timber was received but bidder was not interested in purchasing the land.

The Board resolved that the Secretary be directed to file this Report, and that the Rector refer it for study to a special committee. It was so ordered, and the Rector appointed the following to the special committee

Mr. Gray, Chairman

Mr. Coxe

Miss Dunn

It was resolved by the Board that the November 12th Board meeting be held in Charlottesville, that a decision be made at that time as to where the December meeting shall be held, and that the President be requested to advise the officers of Mary Washington College of this plan.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Frederick A. Stoutamire, Jr., be and he is hereby elected as Instructor in Psychology at Mary Washington College for the session of 1954-55, at a salary of $3,420.00

President Darden presented to the Board the following letter from Dean Alvey

As you know, both Mr. Woodward and I have been concerned about the number of students who apply for admission, pay the ten-dollar application fee, are accepted and assigned a dormitory room, and cancel at the last minute or just fail to appear. Apparently the forfeiture of a ten-dollar application fee is not much of a deterrent. Many of these students have made application elsewhere and are simply holding the space here as something to fall back on if they should not be admitted to the institution of their first choice.

We believe that there should be a substantial payment after the student has been notified of her acceptance at Mary Washington College before a dormitory room is reserved for her. The payment of $100.00, which you suggested, should be sufficient to take care of this situation.

The procedure we propose is as follows. The student files an application for admission with ten-dollar application fee attached. Upon being notified of her acceptance by the Committee on Admissions, she is required to make a payment of $100.00 within a period of two weeks after the letter of notification has been received. No student will be assigned a dormitory room until the payment of $100.00 has been received. This payment is not refundable after June 1. Exceptions to this rule will be made only in the most unusual circumstances, based on the merits of the case as determined by the Bursar

It is our thought that this procedure would be put into effect at once with respect to all new students seeking admission for the session beginning September, 1955. For students now in residence, we can set a deadline for them to apply for readmission and make a definite payment. It is our present thought that the old students should apply for readmission not later than April 1, and the payment should be made not later than June 1.

The situation really calls for action. Each year we have had scores of vacancies in the dormitory rooms because of late cancellations when we had already turned away well qualified applicants because it was thought that all of the dormitory rooms were filled. As you will note from statistics furnished by Mr. Woodward with his letter of October 4, we had at the beginning of this session sixty-three unused spaces in the dormitory rooms. The situation is entirely due to late cancellations

We would appreciate your giving us authority to put the new policy into operation for applicants for the 1955-56 session. We will prepare a letter to go out with the notification of acceptance. If we act promptly, we can explain the policy in the new catalogue which is now in preparation.

The Board resolved that the requirements set forth in paragraph three of the foregoing letter shall be in force from the present date as part of the regulations of the College

The President reported on various matters at the College, mentioning that the complaints of several maintenance employees, referred to recently in the newspapers, had been dropped. He said that the large number of applications for admittance continues, and that the quality of the applicants is exceptionally high. Referring with great optimism to the brilliant future of the College, President Darden described briefly some of the steps being taken to reduce the number of girls withdrawing after the second year to enter the large coeducational universities that require two years of college preparation.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

At the June meeting I was requested to furnish the Board with a list of vacant lots and lands owned by the University

We have examined all the records of the University, including the file of wills and trust instruments, and have found the following pieces of property

1 Estate of William J. Humphreys

90 acres mountain land in Wayne County, West Virginia. On February 12, 1954, sale at $3,000 was approved by the University and the Washington Loan and Trust Company, Trustees, under Dr. Humphreys' will, but sale fell through. Widow and other heirs have life interest

2 Estate of Joseph Harvey Riley

Residence in Falls Church, Virginia, with 8.312 acres, to become the property of the University of Virginia at the death of Mr. Riley's sisters, Margaret R. Parker and Maude K. Gage

3 Estate of Bertha L. Makinson

10 acres of wooded land in Princess Anne County, Virginia Mr. Black is familiar with this land, I believe

4 Estate of Mazyck Wilson Shields

20 acres of land in Marion County, Florida, valued at $10.00 an acre. Offer of $92.50 for the timber was received but bidder was not interested in purchasing the land.

As you know, both Mr. Woodward and I have been concerned about the number of students who apply for admission, pay the ten-dollar application fee, are accepted and assigned a dormitory room, and cancel at the last minute or just fail to appear. Apparently the forfeiture of a ten-dollar application fee is not much of a deterrent. Many of these students have made application elsewhere and are simply holding the space here as something to fall back on if they should not be admitted to the institution of their first choice.

We believe that there should be a substantial payment after the student has been notified of her acceptance at Mary Washington College before a dormitory room is reserved for her. The payment of $100.00, which you suggested, should be sufficient to take care of this situation.

The procedure we propose is as follows. The student files an application for admission with ten-dollar application fee attached. Upon being notified of her acceptance by the Committee on Admissions, she is required to make a payment of $100.00 within a period of two weeks after the letter of notification has been received. No student will be assigned a dormitory room until the payment of $100.00 has been received. This payment is not refundable after June 1. Exceptions to this rule will be made only in the most unusual circumstances, based on the merits of the case as determined by the Bursar

It is our thought that this procedure would be put into effect at once with respect to all new students seeking admission for the session beginning September, 1955. For students now in residence, we can set a deadline for them to apply for readmission and make a definite payment. It is our present thought that the old students should apply for readmission not later than April 1, and the payment should be made not later than June 1.

The situation really calls for action. Each year we have had scores of vacancies in the dormitory rooms because of late cancellations when we had already turned away well qualified applicants because it was thought that all of the dormitory rooms were filled. As you will note from statistics furnished by Mr. Woodward with his letter of October 4, we had at the beginning of this session sixty-three unused spaces in the dormitory rooms. The situation is entirely due to late cancellations

We would appreciate your giving us authority to put the new policy into operation for applicants for the 1955-56 session. We will prepare a letter to go out with the notification of acceptance. If we act promptly, we can explain the policy in the new catalogue which is now in preparation.

At the June meeting I was requested to furnish the Board with a list of vacant lots and lands owned by the University

We have examined all the records of the University, including the file of wills and trust instruments, and have found the following pieces of property

1 Estate of William J. Humphreys

90 acres mountain land in Wayne County, West Virginia. On February 12, 1954, sale at $3,000 was approved by the University and the Washington Loan and Trust Company, Trustees, under Dr. Humphreys' will, but sale fell through. Widow and other heirs have life interest

2 Estate of Joseph Harvey Riley

Residence in Falls Church, Virginia, with 8.312 acres, to become the property of the University of Virginia at the death of Mr. Riley's sisters, Margaret R. Parker and Maude K. Gage

3 Estate of Bertha L. Makinson

10 acres of wooded land in Princess Anne County, Virginia Mr. Black is familiar with this land, I believe

4 Estate of Mazyck Wilson Shields

20 acres of land in Marion County, Florida, valued at $10.00 an acre. Offer of $92.50 for the timber was received but bidder was not interested in purchasing the land.

As you know, both Mr. Woodward and I have been concerned about the number of students who apply for admission, pay the ten-dollar application fee, are accepted and assigned a dormitory room, and cancel at the last minute or just fail to appear. Apparently the forfeiture of a ten-dollar application fee is not much of a deterrent. Many of these students have made application elsewhere and are simply holding the space here as something to fall back on if they should not be admitted to the institution of their first choice.

We believe that there should be a substantial payment after the student has been notified of her acceptance at Mary Washington College before a dormitory room is reserved for her. The payment of $100.00, which you suggested, should be sufficient to take care of this situation.

The procedure we propose is as follows. The student files an application for admission with ten-dollar application fee attached. Upon being notified of her acceptance by the Committee on Admissions, she is required to make a payment of $100.00 within a period of two weeks after the letter of notification has been received. No student will be assigned a dormitory room until the payment of $100.00 has been received. This payment is not refundable after June 1. Exceptions to this rule will be made only in the most unusual circumstances, based on the merits of the case as determined by the Bursar

It is our thought that this procedure would be put into effect at once with respect to all new students seeking admission for the session beginning September, 1955. For students now in residence, we can set a deadline for them to apply for readmission and make a definite payment. It is our present thought that the old students should apply for readmission not later than April 1, and the payment should be made not later than June 1.

The situation really calls for action. Each year we have had scores of vacancies in the dormitory rooms because of late cancellations when we had already turned away well qualified applicants because it was thought that all of the dormitory rooms were filled. As you will note from statistics furnished by Mr. Woodward with his letter of October 4, we had at the beginning of this session sixty-three unused spaces in the dormitory rooms. The situation is entirely due to late cancellations

We would appreciate your giving us authority to put the new policy into operation for applicants for the 1955-56 session. We will prepare a letter to go out with the notification of acceptance. If we act promptly, we can explain the policy in the new catalogue which is now in preparation.