 TEI to HTML

COMMITTEES OF THE BOARDGIFTS AND GRANTSRETIREMENT OF PROFESSOR WHITECHANGE IN TITLELEAVES OF ABSENCERESIGNATIONSAPPOINTMENTSELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONSPROMOTIONSUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSARBORETUM AT BLANDY FARM NAMED FOR WHITECHRISTIAN ESTATE, DISCHARGE OF CLAIMADMISSIONS FEE REFUND CANCELLEDPRESIDENT'S AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER PROFESSORSATHLETIC POLICY AND THE FACULTYSUMMER APPOINTMENTS BY THE PRESIDENTEXPELLED STUDENTS TO BE READMITTEDBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE REPORTCemetery RegulationsAssignment of University HousesChildren's Rehabilitation CenterPAVILION VI ASSIGNED TO PROFESSOR ABBOTTDAWSON'S ROW COTTAGE ASSIGNED TO THE PROFESSORS GWATHMEYCHILDREN'S REHABILITATION CENTERHOUSES FOR FACULTY AT PIEDMONTSALE OF PRINCESS ANNE PROPERTY PROPOSEDMR. VINCENT SHEA PRESENTBUDGET FOR 1955-1956 ADOPTEDFIXED COMPENSATION FOR UNIVERSITY'S ATTORNEYUSES OF STUDENT PUBLICATIONS FEEUniversity of Virginia Cavalier Daily Statement of Receipts, Disbursements and BalancesJuly 1, 1954 to May 31, 1955ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE AND APPOINTMENT OF A PROVOSTRETIREMENT POLICYFaculty RetirementMR. VINCENT SHEA ABSENTMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSLEAVES OF ABSENCERESIGNATIONPROMOTIONSAPPEAL OF WILLIAM HOUCHINSSALE OF MENDEL MUSEUM AUTHORIZEDBURSAR AUTHORIZED TO SIGN CONTRACTSCHANGE OF TITLE OF PRESIDENTDR. COMBS' ILLNESS - USE OF BROMPTONPROFESSOR HILLDRUP'S LETTERBUDGET ADOPTED
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Executive Committee

Mr. Black, Chairman

Mr. Mears

Mr. Talbott

Judge Barksdale

Finance Committee

Mr. Mears, Chairman

Mr. Talbott

Mr. Gray

Buildings and Grounds Committee

Mrs. Smith Chairman

Judge Barksdale

Mr. McWane

Mr. Berkeley

Mary Washington College Committee

Mr. Howard, Chairman

Mrs. Smith

Miss Wheeler

Miss Dunn

Mr. McWane

Athletics Committee

Mr. Talbott, Chairman

Mr. Coxe

Mr. Mears

Mr. Berkeley

Dr. Pollock

Medical Committee

Dr. Emmett, Chairman

Mr. Smith

Mr. Coxe

Mrs. Smith

Student Activities Committee

Mr. Gravatt, Chairman

Judge Barksdale

Col. Hartfield

From Dr. A. G. A. Balz, to be added to the balz Philosophy Fund

$ 500.00

From the University Hospital Auxiliary, to be used for the hospital

2,212.20

From Mrs. Goldie M. Allen, for the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

100.00

From various sources, to be added to the Mary Milligan Memorial Fund

125.00

From the Seven Society, for the Seven Society Speaker's Fund

17.77

From Colonel John R. Fox, books valued at

222.00

From Mr. and Mrs. William H. White, Jr., securities added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Cancer Fund, valued at

4,190.00

From Mr. Frank A. McDonnell, for the Engineering School

150.00

From Dr. P. F. Litvak, for the Medical School

500.00

From an anonymous donor, to the Department of Foreign Affairs to be used to pay the honorarium for the Michalowski Lectures

300.00

From Miss Lucille Tuttle, a collection from the library of the late Professor Stephen D. Tuttle, valued at

1,312.72

An anonymous gift from a New York alumnus its purpose to be designated later, securities valued at

23,053.60

From the W. K. McClure Foundation, to the Department of Foreign Affairs to be used for the study of world affairs

150.00

From the Student Aid Foundation, for athletic grants-in aid

9,648.53

From the Albemarle Tuberculosis Association, for equipment for the Cardio-Pulmonary Laboratory

1,320.00

From Rotary International, to the Department of Foreign Affairs for round-table forums on international affairs

456.90

From the American Cyanamid Company for medical research fellowships

1,200.00

From the Alumni Fund, contributions made through that office for the following.

Faculty Salaries

17,876.51

Alderman Library

880.95

School of Education (summer school)

1,000.00

Medical School

7,378.00

Cross Fraternity Scholarship Fund

2,500.00

Department of Foreign Affairs

63,455.28

Sundry

11,807.89

From the Department of the Army, for research in chemistry under the direction of Dr. Lutz

8,975.00

From the Research Corporation, for research in chemistry under the direction of Dr. Loren G. Hepler

1,600.00

From the Smith, Kline and French Foundation, for research under the direction of Dr. William Parson, Department of Internal Medicine

4,000.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for research in physics under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

33,022.32

From the Department of the Navy, for research in physics under the direction of Dr. Nicolas Cabrera

4,758.00

From the National Institute of Health, for research under the direction of Dr. W. H. Muller, of the School of Medicine

18,543.00

From the Virginia Tuberculosis Association for research under the direction of Dr. Q. N. Myrvik, of the School of Medicine

1,000.00

From the Ford Foundation, for a conference on training for foreign service, under the direction of the Department of Foreign Affairs

2,500.00

From the Johns Hopkins University, for research in engineering under the direction of Prof. L. R. Quarles

$ 16,500.00

From the Atomic Energy Commission for research in physics under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

20,000.00

From the Department of the Navy, for research in psychology under the direction of Dr. F. A. Geldard

25,500.00

From the Department of the Navy, for research in physics under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

22,500.00

From the National Institute of Health, for research under the direction of Dr. William Parson, of the School of Medicine

12,960.00

From the Department of State, for a training program for Japanese students

24,350.00

From the Department of the Army, for continued research in psychology under the direction of Dr. R. H. Henneman

45,734.00

From the Department of the Army, for research under the direction of Prof. J. C. Mace, of the School of Engineering

70,000.00

From Berkeley Scientific, for research under the direction of Prof. R. M. Hubbard, of the School of Engineering

3,500.00

Balance Forward - July 1, 1954

$4,787.89

Receipts:

Student Fees-Summer Sessions 1953 & 1954

$ 921.00

Student Fees, Regular Session 1954-55

17,222.50

Advertising and Subscriptions

12,443.44

30,586.94

$35,374.83

Expenditures

Personal Services

$ 4,664.83

Repairs

14.24

Travel

38.75

Communication (telephone, postage, etc.)

713.61

Printing and Allied Costs

18,285.66

Office Supplies

256.93

Other Supplies

276.27

Entertainment

726.64

Office Equipment

90.00

Other Equipment

45.71

Miscellaneous

18.00

25,130.64

Balance - May 31, 1955

$10,244.19

The annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 10:00 a.m. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Visitors Barksdale, Berkeley, Coxe, Dunn, Emmett, Gravatt, Gray, Hartfield, Howard, McWane, Mears, Pollock Mr. Smith, and Mrs. Smith. Absent: Visitors Talbott and Wheeler

The minutes of the meeting of 8 April 1955, previously distributed, were approved

The Board reelected the Executive Committee, with the addition of Judge Barksdale, and the Rector appointed the standing committees for 1955-56 as follows

The President reported the following gifts and grants

Dr. Orland Emile White, Professor of Agricultural Biology and Director of the Blandy Experimental Farm, will retire at the end of the session of 1954-55. He has been on the staff of the University since 1927

The Secretary was directed to convey to Dr. White the good wishes of the Board for many years of happiness in his retirement

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the title of Mrs. Isabel H. Neely, Associate Professor of Nursing, be and it is hereby changed to Lecturer in Nursing as of February 1, 1955

The following resolution was adopted by the Board.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence without pay.

Dr. Edward James McShane, Professor of Mathematics, for the session of 1955-56, in order to accept Fulbright and Guggenheim fellowships for study abroad

Mr. John F. Gange, Professor of Foreign Affairs, for the session of 1955-56, to accept a Ford Foundation fellowship

Mr. Howard W. Nicholson, Assistant Professor of Economics, for the session of 1955-56, to accept a one-year teaching assignment at the University of California

Dr. Charles Antoine Micaud, Associate Professor of Foreign Affairs, for the session of 195556, to conduct a series of seminars and for study in France under the auspices of the Ford Foundation

Mr. Cummins E. Speakman, Acting Assistant Professor of Foreign Affairs for the session of 1955-56, to continue at the American University of Beirut

Dr. John W. Eldridge, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering for the session of 1955-56, to take a position in industry

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following faculty members be and they are hereby accepted

Dr. David McCord Wright, Professor of Economics, as of the end of the session of 1954-55, to take a position at McGill University

Dr. Francis Greenfield Lankford, Jr. Professor of Education, to become President of Longwood College

Dean Lindley J. Stiles, of the School of Education to become Dean of the School of Education at the University of Wisconsin

Dr. David W. Bierhorst, Assistant Professor of Biology, to accept a position at Cornell University

Miss Mary Sue Johnston, Instructor in Nursing, as of June 1, 1955

Mr. Earl R. Boggs, Associate Professor of Education to take a position at Longwood College

Mr. Charles Henderson, Professor of Experimental Engineering, is resigning his position as Dean of the School of Engineering, but will continue to serve in his professorial capacity

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following appointments be and they are hereby made

Professor F. S. Kaulback, to the newly established McIntire Undergraduate School of Commerce as Professor and Director of the School. Messrs. D. D. Drysdale, D. B. Moyer, R. M. Musselman and Knox Turnbull as Lecturers, and Mr. J. E. Gibson as Instructor in the McIntire Undergraduate School of Commerce for the session of 1955-56

Dr. Walter S. Flory, to be Curator of the Orland Emile White Arboretum at the Blandy Experimental Farm

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on July 14, 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University of Virginia in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps program, the President announced the following appointments:

Colonel Harry R. Page, as Professor of Air Science and Tactics, effective in the summer of 1955, at no salary from the University. This is a replacement for Colonel Logan

Lieutenant Eugene J. Robinson, USNR, as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, effective in the summer of 1955, at no salary from the University

The following resolution was adopted by the Board RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. John W. Whelan, as Acting Assistant Professor of Law for the session of 1955-56, at a session salary of $6,200.00

Mr. John W. McNair Jr., as Instructor in Civil Engineering for the session of 1955-56, at a salary of $4,000.00

Mr. James Rodney Schlesinger, as Assistant Professor of Economics for three years, beginning in September, at a session salary of $5,000.00

Mr. Daniel L. Gibbes, Jr., as Part-time Instructor in History for the session of 1955-56, at a salary of $625.00

Mr. James Douglas Smith, as Part-time Instructor in History for the session of 1955-56, at a salary of $625.00

Mr. R. Dabney Chapman, as Part-time Instructor in History for the session of 1955-56, at a salary of $625.00

Mr. Edgar Lowell Steele, as Part-time Instructor in Chemistry for the session of 1955-56, at a salary of $3,500.00

Mr. Frisby Davis Smith, as Assistant Professor of Education for one year, beginning in September, 1955, at a session salary of $5,000.00

Mr. James J. Jones, as Assistant Professor of Education for a period of three years, beginning in September, 1955, at a session salary of $5,500.00

Miss Frances Hall, as Assistant Instructor in Nursing Arts, as of June 1, 1955

Mrs. Mary DeLacey Wheeler, as Assistant Instructor in Nursing for two months, beginning June 13, 1955

Dr. Marvin Rosenblum, as Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics for the session of 1955-56, at a session salary of $5,000.00.

Dr. Charles Lester Clark, as Visiting Professor of Mathematics for the session of 1955-56, at a salary of $7,800. This is a replacement for Professor McShane, who will be on leave

Dr. W. Dean Warren, as Instructor in Surgery, effective July 1, 1955, at a salary of $7,500, $3,000 of which will be derived from a vacancy in the budget and the remainder from operating expenses

Dr. Mariano Cooper, as Instructor in Orthopedics, at a salary of $5,500 per year, effective July 1, 1955, to be paid from departmental earnings

Dr. Sun Hak Choy, as Instructor in Pathology, effective July 1, 1955, at a salary of $5,700 per year, $3,800 of which is to be paid from State funds and $1,900 from departmental funds

Dr. James C. Respess, as Instructor in Internal Medicine, as of July 1, 1955, at a yearly salary of $7,200, to be paid from the Preventorium

Dr. Douglas William Eastwood, as Professor of Anesthesiology and Chairman of the Department of Anesthesiology, effective September 1, 1955, at a salary of $20,000 a year, $10,000 of which will come from the Medical School and Hospital Budgets. He will be expected to earn $5,000 from fees, and the additional $5,000 or any part thereof which he fails to earn will be made up from the National Fund for Medical Education

Dr. David E. Smith, as Professor of Pathology, as of August 1, 1955, at a salary of $12,000 per year

Dr. John Edward Fitzgerald, as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, effective July 1, 1955, at a salary of $6,800

Mr. W. P. Walker, as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering for three years at a session salary of $5,000.00

Mr. A. W. Zelomek, as Part-time Visiting Professor in the Graduate School of Business Administration for one year at a salary of $3,500.00.

Mr. C. Venable Minor, as University Attorney and Special Counsel to the Rector and Visitors at an annual salary of $2,400.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby re-elected, their original appointments having expired at the end of this session:

Dr. F. J. Crigler, Clinical Assistant Professor of Opthalmology, for three years.

Dr. Charles A. Finnegan, Assistant Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, for three years.

Miss Catherine Russell, Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years.

Dr. Wesley A. Volk, Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years.

Mr. Donald Lee Reid, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for three years.

Mr. James Hubert Gary, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, for three years

Mr. Theodore Turner, Assistant Professor of Art, for three years.

Mr. Donald M. MacInnis, Assistant Professor of Music, for three years.

Mr. Malcolm B. McCoy, Assistant Professor of Speech, for three years.

Mr. Albert C. Murdaugh, Lecturer in Foreign Affairs, for one year.

Mr. S. Walter Washington, Lecturer in Foreign Affairs, for one year.

Mr. Rouhollah Ramazani, Lecturer in Foreign Affairs, for one year.

Dr. Shao Chuan Leng, Assistant Professor of Foreign Affairs, for three years.

Miss Mary Virginia Willson, Assistant Professor of Education, for one year.

Mr. W. Lester Wilson, Acting Assistant Professor of English at the Clinch Valley Branch, for one year.

Mrs. O. K. Campbell, Instructor in Business and Commercial Education, for one year, at the Clinch Valley Branch.

Dr. Guy F. Hollifield, Instructor in Medicine and Social and Environmental Medicine, for one year.

Dr. Paul M. Gross, Jr., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years.

Dr. Marvin Colker, Instructor in Classics, for one year.

Mr. Chester W. Bain, Acting Assistant Professor of Political Science, for one year.

Mr. Louis J. Halle, Jr., as Research Professor of Foreign Affairs, for one year.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions in rank be and they are hereby made:

Dr. McLemore Birdsong, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, to Professor of Pediatrics, as of July 1, 1955.

Dr. Kenneth R. Crispell, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, as of July 1, 1955.

Dr. Lester A. Wilson, Jr., Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, as of July 1, 1955.

Mr. Stanislaw J. Makielski, Associate Professor of Architecture, to Professor of Architecture, as of September, 1955.

Mr. Wendell E. Malbon, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Engineering Mathematics, for three years as of September, 1955, at a salary of $4,450.00.

Mr. Calvin Deam, Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of Education, as of February, 1955, for two years.

Dr. Allan Mounter, Acting Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, to Assistant Professor, effective May 1, 1955, for three years.

Mr. A. L. Shuster, Lecturer in Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, as of September, 1955.

Dr. B. J. Chandler, Assistant Professor of Education, to Associate Professor of Education, at a salary of $6,000.

Mr. Theodore W. Gibson, Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics in the Clinch Valley Branch for two years.

Mr. Joseph C. Vance, Acting Assistant Professor of History, to Assistant Professor of History in the Clinch Valley Branch, for two years.

Mr. Joseph C. Smiddy, Instructor in Biology, to Acting Assistant Professor of Biology in the Clinch Valley Branch, for one year.

Dr. Anna Irene Miller, Instructor to Acting Assistant Professor of English in the Clinch Valley Branch for one year.

Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., Associate Professor to Professor of Biology, as of September, 1955.

Dr. John S. Belew, Acting Assistant Professor of Chemistry, to Assistant Professor of Chemistry for one year, as of September, 1955.

Mr. Wayne A. Wallace, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Geography as of September, 1955.

Dr. Matthew Volm, Assistant Professor of German, to Associate Professor as of September, 1955.

Dr. Charles J. Bishko, Associate Professor to Professor of History, as of September, 1955.

Dr. Frank W. Finger, Associate Professor, to Professor of Psychology as of September, 1955.

Mr. David W. Weiss, Jr., Acting Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor of Drama for two years, as of September, 1955.

Mr. Frank S. Kaulback, Associate Professor, to Professor and Director of the McIntire Undergraduate School of Commerce, as of July 1, 1955.

Professor T. K. Fitz Patrick, to Dean of the School of Architecture as of July 1, 1955.

Dr. Lawrence Reginald Quarles, Professor of Electrical Engineering to Dean of the School of Engineering.

Mr. George B. Zehmer, Professor of Education and Director of the Extension Division, to Professor of Education and Dean of Extension.

Mr. Olen Kenneth Campbell, Director of the Clinch Valley Branch and Assistant Professor of Education, to Acting Dean and Acting Associate Professor of Education in the Clinch Valley Branch for one year.

Dr. Oscar A. Thorup, Jr., from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, as of July 1, 1955.

Mr. John C. Sheffield, Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education for two years, as of September, 1955.

Dr. Douglas S. Ward, to be Acting Dean of the School of Education for the session of 1955-56.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and they are hereby authorized to charge of as uncollectible accounts Schedules 525, 528, 529, 533, 536 and 537, aggregating $43,003.28, as recommended by them.

The Board resolved, as a mark of the high esteem in which Dr. Orland Emile White is held and in gratitude for his distinguished services to the University, that the Arboretum at the Blandy Experimental Farm be named The Orland Emile White Arboretum.

The Board resolved further that Dr. Walter S. Flory be appointed Curator of The Orland Emile White Arboretum as noted above.

Following a discussion by President Darden, the Board adopted the following resolution:

WHEREAS, Dr. David A. Christian, III, while a student in the Department of Medicine of the University of Virginia, was the recipient of two State Rural Medical Scholarships, one of these, for part of a year, in the amount of $229.16, being received by him during the session of 1945-46, and the other, for a whole year, in the amount of $550.00, being received by him during the session 1946-47. In accordance with the requirements of the Act of Assembly establishing such State Rural Medical Scholarships, said Dr. David A. Christian, III, delivered to the Bursar of the University of Virginia, Life Insurance Policy No. 113,908, issued on March 6, 1946, by Peoples Life Insurance Company, Washington, D.C., on his life, in the amount of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) in which the University of Virginia was the named beneficiary, said policy to be held as security for the fulfillment of the obligations of said Dr. Christian under the requirements of said Act of Assembly, and,

WHEREAS, said Dr. Christian having fully complied with the requirements of said Act of Assembly and having discharged said obligation, the above numbered policy was returned to said Dr. Christian, but through oversight, he failed to have a new beneficiary named therein prior to his death, and,

WHEREAS, it is a fact that said Dr. Christian is not now in any way indebted to the University of Virginia, that the sole purpose of naming the University of Virginia as beneficiary under said policy was to secure indebtedness to the University of Virginia existing at the time said policy was issued, but which does not now exist, and that the University of Virginia under these conditions is not entitled to the proceeds of said policy.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that it hereby disclaims and waives any and all interest in the proceeds of Policy No. 113,908, issued by Peoples Life Insurance Company, Washington, D.C., on the life of Dr. David A. Christian, III, in the amount of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00), in which the University of Virginia is named as sole beneficiary, and releases said Peoples Life Insurance Company from any claim or liability to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia thereunder.

The Board resolved that, beginning with the 1956-57 session, the former practice of returning to those out-of-state applicants who are denied admission to the University a portion of the admissions fee shall be abolished, and that University catalogues shall be revised accordingly.

President Darden said that he was not sure whether or not he had authority, without specific referral to the Board, to transfer a professor from one college or school of the University to another, that sudden losses of professors from a particular school might make such a transfer desirable, and that he would like to be authorized to make such transfers when appropriate and agreeable to the individuals and schools concerned. The Board resolved that this authority be delegated to the President.

President Darden referred to his letter of 24 January 1955 to the Rector regarding Faculty participation in the determining of athletic policy, and said that it would be reassuring to the Faculty and helpful to him if he could have a reply early in the autumn. No one of the Faculty, Mr. Darden said, questioned the final authority of the Board on athletic policy and all other policy matters, but there was a strong sentiment in the faculties of the University that they were in the best position to guide athletic matters and had traditionally done so. The President said he felt that the Faculty should be encouraged to continue active in formulating rulings on athletics. Members expressed agreement with the President regarding continuing Faculty responsibilities in athletic matters. The Rector said that President Darden's letter had been referred to the Board's Athletic Committee, from which he would ask for a report early in the autumn restating and clarifying the Board's position.

The Board resolved that the President be authorized to make appointments of faculty members during the summer months subject to confirmation by the Board at the September 9th meeting.

President Darden said that at the time when several students were expelled last year it had been his thought that they should be readmitted upon application in September 1955. The circumstances of one of these students now made it seem desirable to readmit him to the summer session. Upon motion of Mr. Mears, it was resolved by the Board that the President be authorized to readmit any expelled student at his own discretion.

Mrs. Smith, Chairman, read for the Committee on Buildings and Grounds the text of a report as follows

The Committee on Buildings and Grounds met on 9 June 1955, and considered the following matters:

It was decided to postpone a report on regulations for the University Cemetery until the September meeting.

The Committee recommends the following assignment of two University houses that will become vacant in the summer of 1955:

Pavilion VI East Lawn to Dean Charles C. Abbott

No. 2 Dawson's Row to Professor and Mrs. Allan T. Gwathmey, as a temporary residence.

Professor Thomas K. Fitz Patrick, Director of the School of Architecture, and Mr. Vincent Shea, Comptroller of the University, appeared before the Committee to display and discuss the final plans for the Children's Rehabilitation Center on the site of the old Rucker Home. The drawings are available in the Board Room today for examination by the Visitors. Your Committee recommends them for your approval.

The foregoing Report was accepted by the Board and ordered to be filed

Mrs. Smith referred briefly to recent criticism of the tennis courts that had come to her attention as an individual but had not been considered by the Committee. The President then read to the Board a letter of June 10th from Mr. Gus K. Tebell, Athletic Director, stating that inadequacies in the tennis courts could be corrected only by an appropriation for the purpose, and mentioning hearsay evidence that Mrs. Henry B. Mulholland, wife of Professor Mulholland, may have obtained pledges of $25,000 toward the construction of additional tennis courts near the new dormitories. President Darden remarked that the allocation of a particular site for such a project, separated from the other tennis courts, should be considered by the Board only after careful thought and appropriate recommendations by the proper University authorities concerned. Members proposed that any discussion of the project be postponed until further information was made available to the Board in an orderly manner through the President.

The Board resolved that Pavilion VI, East Lawn, be offered as a residence to Professor Charles C. Abbott, Dean of the Graduate School of Business Administration, as recommended by the Committee.

Upon motion of Mr. Gravatt, duly seconded, the Board resolved approval of the Committee's recommendation that No. 2 Dawson's Row be offered as a residence to Mr. Allan T. Gwathmey, Associate Professor of Chemistry, and to his wife, Mrs. Roberta H. Gwathmey, Associate Professor of Spanish and Dean of Women, but only under the following conditions. (1) that the Department of Buildings and Grounds be prohibited from expending any funds upon the cottage beyond those essential for its preservation and appropriate for a temporary structure, (2) that the Board reserves the right to demolish the cottage at any time upon comparatively short notice to Mr. and Mrs. Gwathmey, and (3) that Mr. and Mrs. Gwathmey be informed of these conditions and of the further requirement that acceptance of tenancy of the cottage by Mr. and Mrs. Gwathmey will constitute acceptance of the three conditions stated herein.

After studying and discussing Professor Fitz Patrick's drawings for the proposed Children's Rehabilitation Center, the Board resolved that these plans be approved, but that the entire project of a Center located at a point removed from the University Hospital be referred to the Visitors' Medical Committee for further study, in consultation with the Comptroller of the University and appropriate representatives of the Medical School and Hospital, to determine and report on the feasibility of the project from both the financial and medical viewpoint.

President Darden inaugurated discussion of a plan to construct small houses for rental to junior members of the Faculty on the University's "Piedmont" tract south of Observatory Mountain. He said that plans for specific houses would of course be brought before the Visitors' Committee on Buildings and Grounds, he intended, however, unless he heard adverse comment from the Board, to proceed now with such incidental preparations as the construction of roads and sewers. There were general expressions of approval for the project.

Mr. Gray reported for the special Committee on Outlying Real Estate that offers had been received for two tracts owned by the University. He recommended that the 8-acre tract in Falls Church, now occupied by life tenants, appraised at $56,000, and increasing in value, be held by the University. For the other property, a 10-acre tract in Princess Anne County, an offer of $5,000 had been received, and Mr. Gray's Committee believed that a favorable sale might be negotiated at a somewhat higher figure. Upon motion of Dr. Emmett, the Board resolved that Mr. Gray be authorized to make a counter offer to sell this tract for $7,500, and that he be further authorized to commit the Board to a sale for a price between this figure and $5,500.

Mr. Mears, Chairman of the Finance Committee, presented the proposed Budget for 1955-56, with a recommendation for its adoption, and the Comptroller, Mr. Vincent Shea, appeared before the Board by request of the Committee and presented a Budget Summary, which was ordered to be filed with these minutes. Mr. Shea pointed out that increased fees, enrollment, gifts, and appropriations make the estimated revenues for 1955-56 higher by nearly $450,000 than in the current year, with increased expenditures devoted largely to salary increases and for several additional positions in expanding departments. Total revenues are estimated at $7,022, 095, and expenditures at $6,974,293, with a surplus of $48,612.

Upon motion of Judge Barksdale, the Board resolved to approve the Report of the Finance Committee and to adopt the Budget as presented.

The Board resolved that Mr. C. Venable Minor be reappointed Special Counsel to the Rector and Visitors as noted above, to serve regularly as the University's attorney at a fixed salary of $2,400 annually for all services performed, no additional compensation to be provided for particular tasks except such as might, under special and unusual circumstances, be determined in advance.

President Darden laid before the Board the following letter and statement from the Comptroller.

Enclosed is a statement for the Cavalier Daily showing expenditures through May 31. You will note that revenues exceeded expenditures by more than $5,000.

Should the Board see fit to allocate $1.00 of the $5.00 now being charged each student for student publications to other student activities, the income of the Daily would be reduced by approximately $3,600 per year. This would still leave them a small surplus to take care of possible increases in costs.

In addition, projected enrollment increases over the next few years should substantially increase their revenues with the fee at $4.00 per year.

The Board resolved that $1.00 out of the total publications fee of $5.00 shall hereafter be allocated to student radio work or other activities that might appropriately be embraced under the general heading of publications.

Mr. Mears, Chairman of the special committee studying the administrative structure of the University, reported that his Committee had held a meeting with the President, the Comptroller, and the deans, at which the Report spread upon the minutes of the Board meeting of April 8th and the accompanying chart had been fully discussed. The deans, Mr. Mears said, had expressed themselves in favor of the proposed creation of the office of Provost, and, taking note of the fact that the projected organization plan would not interfere with direct access by deans to the President, had recommended the adoption of the entire plan.

Following discussion the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Administrative Organization Plan set forth in the Minutes of the Board meeting of 8 April 1955 be and it is hereby adopted as the framework of the administrative structure of the University,

RESOLVED further that the office of Provost of the University be and it is hereby created, and that this position be filled at the earliest practicable date convenient to the President.

Reminding the Board of previous discussion of retirement policy, President Darden presented the following statement prepared by the Faculty Committee on Contractual Relations.

The following statement of policy is hereby affairmed.

(a) The mandatory age of retirement is 70.

(b) However, the Administration should

(1) at any time, for cause, remove any individual,

(2) after 65, upon good and sufficient evidence of inadequate performance of duty, request the retirement of any individual, or reduce his teaching load, and proportionately his compensation, to an amount that seems justifiable in each individual case.

After further discussion the Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the age of 70 be and it is hereby reaffirmed as the mandatory retirement age for University teachers and administrative staff members, that the President be and he is hereby authorized to remove any individual at any time for proper cause, that, upon the initiative either of the President or of the professor concerned, any professor aged 65 or over may be retired or may have his teaching load, and proportionately his compensation, reduced to an amount that is appropriate in each particular case,

RESOLVED further that the age of 65 be and it is hereby fixed as the retirement age for the President, the Provost, the Comptroller, and other administrative officers, and that deans and chairmen of departments be retired at age 65 from their administrative posts even though their teaching duties may continue either in whole or in part;

RESOLVED further that the University's retirement policy as set forth and affirmed in this Resolution, effective from the present date, be presented to future employees of the University at the time of appointment and accepted by them as a condition of employment.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence without pay.

Dr. Kurt F. Leidecker, Assistant Professor of Philosophy in Mary Washington College, for the session of 1955-56, in order to accept an assignment in Bangkok with the State Department.

Dr. Charles H. Frick, Professor of Mathematics in Mary Washington College, for the session of 1955-56, to work at the U. S. Naval Proving Ground at Dahlgren.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Thomas N. Stritch, Instructor in Psychology in Mary Washington College, to take a position at East Carolina College, be and it is hereby accepted. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

The Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions in rank be and they are hereby made.

Alan Stanley Peirce, from Associate Professor to Professor of Biology in Mary Washington College, as of September, 1955.

Alice S. Brandenburg, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English in Mary Washington College, effective in September, 1955.

Gaetano Cecere, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Art in Mary Washington College, effective in September, 1955.

Raiford E. Sumner, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History in Mary Washington College, effective in September, 1955.

Kurt F. Leidecker, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Philosophy in Mary Washington College, as of September, 1955

Anna Scott Hoye, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physical Education in Mary Washington College, as of September, 1955.

Mark R. Sumner, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Dramatic Arts in Mary Washington College for three years, beginning in September, 1955.

The President reported that in obedience to the Board's request of April 8th, he had caused a hearing to be conducted in Fredericksburg into the case of William Houchins, who had appealed for reinstatement in his position as an employee of the Buildings and Grounds force of Mary Washington College. Laying before the Board the detailed report submitted by Mr. Paul Jenkins, the University's Director of Personnel, who had conducted the hearing, President Darden summarized Mr. Jenkins' findings and supported his recommendation that the appeal of Mr. Houchins be denied

The Board resolved accordingly that the appeal be denied.

President Darden having recommended the sale of the Mendel Museum at Mary Washington College, the Board resolved, after discussion, that the President be authorized to proceed in this matter at his own discretion.

The following resolution, drafted by the Special Counsel, and revised, at the Board's request, by President Darden and Mr. Howard, was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED, that the Rector, the President of the University of Virginia, the President of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, and the Bursar of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia be, and each of said officers is hereby given full and complete authority to execute, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, any instrument pertaining to said Mary Washington College or its affairs, which may hereafter require the name of this corporation to be signed thereto, except that the Bursar of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia shall not have the authority to execute any instrument pertaining to land or to the construction of buildings or other improvements, and the secretary of this corporation is hereby authorized to affix the seal of this corporation to any and all such instruments upon which such seal is or may be required, and to deliver such instrument or instruments to the party or parties entitled to receive the same.

In a discussion regarding the proper title for the administrative head of Mary Washington College, the Rector quoted the opinion of Mr. C. O'Conor Goolrick that the administrative head of the College in residence at Fredericksburg ought not to have the title of President. There was a general concurrence in this opinion, and the Rector said that in view of this fact he felt that Mr. McWane's special Committee ought to warn prospective candidates for the post that the Board will probably propose a change of title to the Legislature. After further discussion, the following resolution, on motion of Mrs. Smith, seconded by Mr. Berkeley, was adopted:

WHEREAS, Title 23, Section 88, of the Code of Virginia now provides that the chief local administrative officer of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia shall have the title of President of the College, and

WHEREAS, the President of the University of Virginia, under the terms of said statute, is the principal administrative officer of the University of Virginia, and for all of its branches, including Mary Washington College,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That in order to properly indicate the rank of the chief local administrative officer of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, and the relationship of that office to the office of President of the University of Virginia, that the chief local administrative officer of the College be called "Chancellor" of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia

AND FURTHER BE IT RESOLVED, That since the President of the University of Virginia is designated in said statute as "Chancellor" of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, and since it appears that the title of "Chancellor" in so far as the President of the University of Virginia is concerned, is superfluous and unnecessary, therefore,

BE IT RESOLVED, That the designation "Chancellor" in so far as the President of the University of Virginia is concerned, be eliminated from the statute, and that the Rector be directed to appoint a committee of the Board to petition the Legislature of Virginia, at its next session, to change and amend said statute in the respects above mentioned, so that the section will read as follows:

"The president of the University shall be the principal administrative officer of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia. The rector and visitors of the University are charged with the care and preservation of all property belonging to the College. With respect to the College, the rector and visitors shall have the same power as to granting degrees and with respect to the appointment and removal of administrative officers, professors, agents and servants, and the making of regulations, that are now vested in them with respect to the University. The title of the chief local administrative officer of the College shall be that of chancellor."

President Darden informed the Board that Dr. Combs had been seriously ill and confined to a hospital in Richmond, that Mrs. Combs had been with him there, and had therefore been unable to proceed with plans to vacate Brompton early this month and move from the house those of the furnishings that are the personal property of Dr. and Mrs. Combs. He added that the Bursar of the College, Mr. Woodward, had assisted Mrs. Combs by providing an inventory of the items at Brompton owned by the University. Mr. Darden said that, in view of the circumstances, he hoped the Board would be lenient in regard to a moving date for Mrs. Combs.

There were general expressions of sympathy for Dr. and Mrs. Combs, and the Secretary was instructed to convey these expressions to Mrs. Combs, and to advise her that a moving date later in the summer would be satisfactory to the Board provided that the move should be made prior to September 1st. The Secretary was also directed to write to the College Bursar, Mr. Edgar Woodward, authorizing and requesting him to lend to Mrs. Combs the assistance of the Buildings and Grounds force and their equipment for the removal of her furniture from Brompton at any date that might be mutually convenient to him and to Mrs. Combs, provided only that this work should be completed prior to September

The President read to the Board a letter from Professor R. L. Hilldrup recommending the promotion of Professor Zoe Black, whose name had been signed to the so-called "Petition" of March 8th. President Darden said that he was inclined to give serious consideration to any suggestion from a professor of such distinction as Mr. Hilldrup, but that the time seemed inappropriate to him for the action proposed (and recommended also by the Dean's Advisory Council), even though he shared Mr. Hilldrup's optimism that the ill-feeling arising from the Petition was subsiding. Members of the Board strongly seconded the President's opinion, and Mr. Howard was requested to inquire further into the circumstances of the Petition and its signing.

Mr. Howard, as Chairman of the Visitors' Committee on the College, laid before the Board revised and corrected copies of the proposed Budget of Mary Washington College for 1955-1956, recommending its approval and adoption, with the following modifications.

1\. Creation of a new instructorship in Spanish at a salary of $3,240.

2\. Deferment of the promotion of Zoe Black.

3\. Deletion of the names of Morgan L. Combs and Ruth E. Jenkins, with the retention of their salaries

4\. Adoption of the proposed Student Aid fund, but on an experimental basis in the amount of $1,500 for the present instead of the $5,000 proposed.

5\. Mr. Woodward's salary to be advanced to $7,500, instead of the $7,298 proposed, as a mark of commendation to him.

6\. Mrs. Harris to be retained as Acting Dean of Women for the 1955-56 session, at President Darden's discretion, but without change in salary.

7\. Policy on Faculty travel to follow the practice of the other schools of the University located at Charlottesville and elsewhere, which is essentially that the necessary expenses of travel by a professor to a conference or meeting are paid only when he reads a paper, presides over a session, or in some other manner actually participates in an active way on the program of the conference or convention.

The Board resolved that the Budget, as amended by the foregoing provisions, be approved and adopted.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

Enclosed is a statement for the Cavalier Daily showing expenditures through May 31. You will note that revenues exceeded expenditures by more than $5,000.

Should the Board see fit to allocate $1.00 of the $5.00 now being charged each student for student publications to other student activities, the income of the Daily would be reduced by approximately $3,600 per year. This would still leave them a small surplus to take care of possible increases in costs.

In addition, projected enrollment increases over the next few years should substantially increase their revenues with the fee at $4.00 per year.

Enclosed is a statement for the Cavalier Daily showing expenditures through May 31. You will note that revenues exceeded expenditures by more than $5,000.

Should the Board see fit to allocate $1.00 of the $5.00 now being charged each student for student publications to other student activities, the income of the Daily would be reduced by approximately $3,600 per year. This would still leave them a small surplus to take care of possible increases in costs.

In addition, projected enrollment increases over the next few years should substantially increase their revenues with the fee at $4.00 per year.