 TEI to HTML

MEETINGS OF THE BOARD FOR 1956-1957GIFTS AND GRANTSRESIGNATIONSCANCELLATION OF RESIGNATION OF DR. D. C. WILSONPROMOTIONELECTIONSLEAVE OF ABSENCEUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSVETERANS' BOOK BILLS CHARGED OFFR. O. T. C. STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE APPROVEDPROPERTY EXCHANGE IN FREDERICKSBURGRILEY TRACT AT FALLS CHURCH SOLDCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE FACULTY HOUSING LOANFACULTY SALARIES AND TUITION INCREASESMADISON PAPERS: MR. RACHAL AND MR. WHITE'S ILLNESSSCHOOL OF NURSING CREATEDFRENCH ROOM REQUESTED BY DEAN ABBOTTLIBRARIAN'S APPOINTMENT AUTHORIZEDAUTOMOBILE TAG FEFSBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEMORTGAGE LOANS TO UNIVERSITY STAFF AND FRATERNITIESATHLETICS RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTSNORTHERN VIRGINIA COLLEGEMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSRESIGNATIONAPPOINTMENTSELECTIONSCHANGE OF TITLEENROLLMENT FOR 1956-57 SESSIONLIBRARIAN'S REPORTRESERVOIR-BROMPTON TRACT EXCHANGEINAUGURATION OF THE CHANCELLORSCIENCE BUILDINGDORMITORY CONSTRUCTIONFEDERAL HOUSING AUTHORITY REQUESTMISS CHARMENZ LENHART'S REQUESTGOVERNOR'S TRANSFER OF SURPLUS FUNDSMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE of the UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Analysis of Temporary LoansJune 30, 1956
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mr. Harry Lee Carter, to establish the Harry Lee Carter Scholarship Fund

$2,500.00

From the following sources, for the purchase of an electronic microscope (NO PUBLICITY)

Mr. R. W. Hooker

317.16

Mr. Albert H. Hooker, Jr.

25.00

Mr. Franchot Tone and Mr. J. Jerome Tone, Jr.

300.00

From the Longwood Foundation, for the use of the Medical School

150,000.00

From the Lettie Pate Whitehead Foundation, for scholarships in the School of Nursing (NO PUBLICITY)

18,000.00

From the U. S. Rubber Company, for a fellowship for the 1956-57 session

1,500.00

From the American Cyanamid Company, for medical research fellowships

1,200.00

From the E. I. duPont de Nemours and Company, for a post-graduate fellowship in chemistry for the 1956-57 session

3,744.00

From the E. I. duPont de Nemours and Company, for a post-graduate fellowship in physics for the 1956-57 session

3,124.00

From Dean Lewis M. Hammond, 262 books, valued at

134.75

From Colonel John R. Fox, 89 books, valued at

546.50

From the Civil Air Patrol, Virginia Wing, for teacher scholarships at the Air Age Education Workshop

3,000.00

From Mr. J. H. Irvine, to be added to the National Fund for Medical Education

200.00

From the Tobacco Industry Research Committee, for a fellowship during the summer of 1956

500.00

From the Union Carbide and Carbon Company, for a pre-doctoral fellowship in physics for the 1956-57 session

3,524.00

From the Union Carbide and Carbon Company, for a scholarship in Engineering

496.00

From the Virginia Cerebral Palsy Association, for the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

$2,700.00

From the Research Corporation, for research in Geology, under the direction of Prof. R. S. Mitchell

4,225.00

From the University League, for two graduate assistantships in the Department of Speech and Drama for the 1956-57 session

1,600.00

From the Farmington Flea Market, for use in the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

1,100.00

From the Fund for Adult Education, for support of the Richmond Liberal Arts Center for Adults

2,500.00

From the University Hospital Auxiliary, to be used for the hospital

600.00

From the American Foundation for Allergic Diseases, for a fellowship in the Medical School for the summer of 1956

500.00

From the Inter-University Committee for Travel Grants, a grant-in-aid to support Prof. Thomas Hammond's travels in the Soviet Union during the summer of 1956

2,200.00

From the Student Aid Foundation, balance due for athletic grants-in-aid for the 1955-56 session

4,134.33

From the U. S. Rubber Company, for equipment to be used in the Chemical Engineering Laboratory

2,000.00

From the John and Mary R. Markle Foundation, for a fellowship to Dr. Oscar Thorup for the 1956-57 session

6,000.00

From the John and Mary R. Markle Foundation, for a fellowship to Dr. Dean Warren for the 1956-57 session

6,000.00

From Mr. Richard S. Richardson, to establish the Douglas W. and George B. Richardson Fund, for scholarships in Business Administration or Law, securities valued at

24,600.00

From the Virginia Society for Crippled Children and Adults, for scholarships in the School of Education for the summer of 1956

350.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Prof. G. T. Whyburn

40,101.32

Dr. J. W. Cole

15,000.00

Dr. Alfred Burger

2,500.00

From the Department of the Army, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty

Prof. James C. Mace

32,000.00

Dr. A. E. Feller

9,079.00

Dr. Paul M. Gross, Jr.

8,996.44

From the Department of the Navy, for research under the direction of Dr. Lewis B. Johnson, Jr., of the School of Engineering

15,800.00

From the American Cancer Society, Inc., for continued research under the direction of Dr. Cornelia Hoch-Ligeti

7,556.00

From the Army Signal Supply Agency, for research under the direction of Prof. O. R. Harris, of the School of Engineering

29,740.68

From Acme Visible Records, Inc., for continued research under the direction of Prof. R. M. Hubbard of the School of Engineering

2,500.00

From the National Science Foundation, for research under the direction of the following faculty members:

Dr. E. C. Stevenson

18,800.00

Prof. W. S. Flory, Jr.

10,200.00

Dr. P. N. Schatz

19,030.00

Dr. J. D. Deck

9,688.75

Dr. E. C. Stevenson

25,000.00

From the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

173,310.31

Dr. C. L. Gemmill

2,925.00

Prof. W. R. Singleton

15,962.00

Dr. Herbert Jonas

1,937.00

Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

18,292.09

Dr. J. N. Dent

6,000.00

Dr. W. D. Warren

$9,142.00

Dr. K. R. Crispell

14,375.00

Dr. C. L. Gemmill

8,088.00

Dr. G. C. Pitts

4,692.00

Dr. William Parson

9,085.00

Dr. P. Y. Paterson

8,518.00

Dr. W. A. Volk

7,130.00

Dr. Oscar A. Thorup, Jr.

8,040.00

Dr. Oscar Swineford

6,957.00

Dr. E. M. Hanbury

5,370.00

Dr. Q. N. Myrvik

7,762.00

Dr. C. C. Speidel

3,220.00

Dr. C. F. Wheeler, Jr.

8,518.00

Dr. J. E. Fitzgerald

7,452.00

Dr. W. R. Sandusky

8,395.00

Dr. W. O. Klingman

15,662.00

Admissions:

Freshmen and Transfers

593

Upperclassmen

857

Total dormitory students

1,450

Day student admissions

56

Grand Total

1,506

Advance payment record.

Freshmen and Transfers

574

Upperclassmen

847

1,421

Total unpaid:

Freshmen and Transfers

19

Upperclassmen

10

29

1,450

ANN CARTER LEE HALL

(Student Activities Bldg.)

$247,773.00

Less unexpended balance in this fund applied toward debt

\-18,424.34

229,348.66

MASON AND RANDOLPH HALLS

(New Dormitories)

382,990.00

Less unexpended balance in this fund applied toward debt

\-198,800.73

184,189.27

HUGH MERCER INFIRMARY

91,907.23

DINING HALL WINGS

184,112.05

FINE ARTS CENTER

682,000.00

Less unexpended balance in this fund applied toward debt

\-15,041.64

666,958.36

$1,356,515.57

LESS SURPLUS FROM MAINTENANCE AND OPERATIONS JUNE 30, 1955 APPLIED TOWARD POST

\-411,909.24

BALANCE DUE ON TEMPORARY LOANS JUNE 30, 1956

944,606.33

LESS SURPLUS WE HAD UNDERSTOOD WOULD BE APPLIED TO THE DEBT JUNE 30, 1956

\-451,389.78

BALANCE OF DEBT HAD WE BEEN PERMITTED TO APPLY OUR SURPLUS AT 6/30/56

493,216.55

REVERTED TO GENERAL FUND OF THE STATE BY THE GOVERNOR

351,389.78

PRESENT BALANCE OF TEMPORARY LOANS

844,606.33

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 A.M. on this date, by call of The Rector, in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present. The Rector, Frank Talbott, Jr., President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson, Visitors Berkeley, Bryan, Coxe, Emmett, Gray, Greear, Hartfield, Howard, Jones, McWane, Martin, Pollock, Mrs. Smith, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Gravatt and Mr. Smith. The University's Special Counsel, Mr. C. Venable Minor, was present during a portion of the meeting and participated in discussions of the real estate transactions at Fredericksburg, Falls Church, and Clinch Valley as outlined below.

The minutes of the meeting of 16 June 1956, previously distributed, were approved.

The business of the October meeting having been laid before today's called meeting, it was resolved that the next meeting would be held on Saturday, December 8th, the remaining 1956-57 meetings to fall on the following Saturdays: February 9th, April 13th (at Fredericksburg), and June 8th.

President Darden announced to the Board the following gifts and grants

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following faculty members be and they are hereby accepted:

Dr. Warren Lounsbury Smith, Associate Professor of Money and Banking in the Department of Economics, as of September 1, 1956.

Mr. Albert Weyman Patrick, Assistant Professor in the McIntire School of Commerce, as of June 30, 1956.

Miss Vivian White, Assistant Professor of Nursing, as of October 12, 1956.

Mr. Walter Harding, Assistant Professor of English, as of August 29, 1956.

Dr. Walter L. Koltun, Acting Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, as of December 1, 1956.

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

The Board resolved as follows:

Owing to a misunderstanding, the resignation of Dr. David C. Wilson, Professor of Psychiatry and Neurology, was presented and acted upon at the June 16, 1956, meeting of the Board; this resignation is hereby cancelled.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Miss Margaret Tyson be and she is hereby promoted from Assistant Professor of Nursing to Acting Associate Professor of Nursing as of September 1, 1956, at an annual salary of $5,200, plus the $500 which the acting chairman receives.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Dr. William C. Ellet, as Assistant Professor of Political Science, effective at the beginning of the session of 1956-57, for a period of three years. His salary is to be paid as Research Assistant in the Bureau of Public Administration.

Mr. W. Royden Franke as Acting Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering for the session of 1956-57, at a salary of $5,900 for the session.

Mr. Walter Bedford Moore, III, as Acting Assistant Professor of English in the School of Engineering for the session of 1956-57, on a half-time basis, at a salary of $2,500. He is to take over some of Mr. Vaughan's work.

Dr. Jesse W. Cumbia as Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, effective July 15, 1956.

Miss Carolyn E. Sloan as Assistant Instructor of Nursing effective August 1, 1956, at an annual salary of $3,600. This is a replacement for Mrs. Helen Stern.

Dr. Luisa Hawkins (Mrs. Franz Schubert), as Instructor in Anesthesiology, as of August 15, 1956, at a salary of $7,200, $3,000 of which is to be paid from State funds and the remaining $4,200 from departmental earnings.

Dr. Virgil S. Ward as Assistant Professor of Education for three years, as of September, 1956, at a session salary of $5,750.

Mr. Frank W. Banghart as Instructor in Educational Research in the School of Education, for the session of 1956-57, at a salary of $4,000.

Mrs. Carolyne Khuri as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech for the session of 1956-57 at a salary of $5,000.

Dr. Robert L. Ramey as Acting Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering for the session of 1956-57, at a salary of $6,800.

Miss Carrie Edell Boyle as Assistant Professor of Nursing for a period of three years, effective October 1, 1956, at an annual salary of $4,550.

Miss Patricia Angela Taugher as Assistant Professor of Nursing as of September 1, 1956, for a period of three years, at an annual salary of $4,550.

Mr. Robert Loring Allen as Associate Professor of Economics for the session of 1956-57. His salary is to be paid from a grant from the Dearborn Foundation because of direction of a research project in foreign affairs sponsored by the Foundation.

Miss Cynthia Graves as Assistant Instructor in Nursing, as of September 1, 1956, at an annual salary of $3,600.

Mrs. Jane Jamison Davis as Instructor in Nursing, effective September 1, 1956, at an annual salary of $3,600.

Mrs. Grace S. Sheldon as Instructor in Nursing, effective September 1, 1956, at an annual salary of $3,600.

Mr. Frank L. Evans as Acting Assistant Professor of History at the Clinch Valley College for the session of 1956-57, at a salary of $4,600.

Mr. W. M. F. Rachal as Research Associate in American History, effective October 1, 1956, for one year at an annual salary of $1,200.

Mr. Fred E. Bell as Instructor in Biochemistry, effective October 15, 1956, at an annual salary of $6,000 to be paid from Dr. Chanutin's Public Health Service Research Grant.

Dr. William D. Whitehead, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Physics for three years, as of September, 1956, at a salary of $6,000, $5,750 of which is to be paid from State funds and the remaining $250 from the Pratt Fund.

Mr. Charles A. Herring as Acting Assistant Professor of English in the Northern Virginia Extension Center, for the session of 1956-57 at a salary of $4,800.

Mr. Jack D. Johnson as Visiting Associate Professor of Business Administration in the Graduate School of Business Administration, part-time, effective February 1, 1957, at an annual salary of $1,500.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Robert M. Hubbard, Professor of Chemical Engineering, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay for the session of 1956-57 to travel and do research.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 619, 622 and 623, aggregating $33,832.36, as recommended by it.

President Darden reminded the Board that at the February and June 1956 meetings of the Board the Student Accounts Committee had been authorized to charge off veterans' tuition accounts resulting from the Federal Government's having allowed the University to charge out-of-state fees for Virginia veterans, provided that no excess charges were levied against the individual students.

The President then laid before the Board schedules of veterans' textbook charges falling in the same general category, certified by the signatures of the Student Accounts Committee, and requested authority for the Committee to charge off these accounts as presented in the aggregate sum of $38,927.31 for the years 1945 through 1954.

The Board resolved that the Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off the veterans' textbook bills, 1945-1954, as presented, in the total sum of $38,927.31.

President Darden presented to the Board the following memorandum from Captain Richard W. Smith, U. S. N., on behalf of the University's R. O. T. C. units:

The present R.O.T.C. units at the University of Virginia, starting with the Navy in 1940, have been organized at the request of the University. The enrollment in these units is covered by public law. Enrollment is entirely voluntary. (This is not the case at the so-called land grant colleges and universities). The first two years (first year only for the Naval ROTC Regulars) a member may withdraw at his own request. Approval of the resignation is accomplished at the Unit Command level. Starting with the third year, ROTC members receive subsistence compensation, and approval of the resignation can only be made at Departmental (or delegated) level.

Each R.O.T.C. unit is an integral part of the University, and student membership cuts across the lines of the college, the schools, and all of the departments (with the exception of the School of Medicine and the Department of Nursing).

Each of the three R.O.T.C. units is welded together through wearing the uniform of one of the armed services. Within each unit is a spirit of comradery which it is believed should be fostered to the fullest in order to enhance the morale of the service of which the unit is a part. Such morale building effect has in the past been improved through extra-curricular gatherings and activities as have been properly connected with and sponsored by the unit(s). Social gatherings, not the least of which is the annual Military Ball, parade participation and competition and the like, are examples of these extra curricular activities. Such activities do require a slight monetary outlay for which there is no provision within available public funds. It has long been a principle of service life that the financing of such activities should be equally borne by all, and hence, that all should be fully eligible to participate in such activities. Whether or not a member does participate in a particular activity is a matter for him to decide, but being a member of the unit would and should constitute his eligibility. In short, his ticket for participation is his uniform and his pride in wearing it.

Each of the R.O.T.C. units has in the past collected a fee to defray such expenses. In the Spring of 1956 the Student Council considered this fee to be a matter, the collection of which should be properly considered by the Council. Accordingly, they made a very thorough, and it is believed, completely unbiased review of the matter. As a result of the review the President of the Student Council addressed a letter to each of the R.O.T.C. unit commanders. This letter contained the following.

"First, if the fee is to be compulsory for all those who enroll in a particular ROTC, the Council believes that it should first be officially approved by the University. This is to be distinguished from the present informal arrangement, whereby the University has agreed to bank these fees. It is felt that such approval is necessary to justify its collection at registration. It would also alleviate the confusion now existing as to the exact status of the fee."

The units concur with the President of the Student Council, particularly as to the clarification of the status of the fund and the manner of collecting it.

The R.O.T.C. unit student activity fee should be kept small, so as to be as little burden on the individual as possible. It is strongly recommended that it not be permitted to exceed $5.00 per student per annum and that $3.00 (about 1 cent per day) only be exceeded in exceptional circumstances. It is believed that inasmuch as membership in the R.O.T.C. unit is voluntary each member should be required to participate in the fee or to withdraw from the unit, or in the case of third and fourth year members, to submit a request for withdrawal.

It is recommended:

(1) The Board of Visitors approve the collection of this fee.

(2) The fund be held in the custody of the Bursar.

(3) The fund be administered by the unit student organization, subject to the approval of the unit commanding officer.

(4) Withdrawals from the fund only be made with the combined approval of the senior student member of the unit organization and the commanding officer of the unit.

The Board adopted after discussion the following resolution:

RESOLVED that each of the R.O.T.C. units at the University of Virginia be authorized to collect a fee not to exceed $5.00 per annum from each enrollee in the unit for the purpose of maintaining a unit student activity fund, the purpose of which shall be to defray expenses of gatherings, meetings, competition, and the like, the prime purpose of which is to improve unit morale and esprit de corps.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that expenditures from this fund shall be under rules as may be set forth by the R.O.T.C. unit commander, such rules to embody the requirement that the initial recommendation for expenditures originate at the unit student organization level.

President Darden called to the attention of the Board the resolution adopted at the regular meeting held on April 14, 1956, by which the Board approved the proposed exchange as then outlined, in principle, subject to final approval by the Board of a contract to be considered later.

Mr. Darden stated that the City of Fredericksburg proposed to convey to The Rector and Visitors, a tract of 4.022 acres of land adjoining the Mary Washington College Campus, on which the City Reservoir is located, reserving the reservoir site itself so long as it was used as a reservoir, with the right to maintain the reservoir on the reserved portion of said tract, and the right at its sole discretion, (1) to increase the height of the reservoir not more than four (4) feet, (2) to enlarge the pump house; (3) to maintain, improve, repair and replace all structures, improvements and equipment on the portion of the property reserved by the City; (4) the right to maintain electric power lines or pipes on the property conveyed as well as that reserved and the right to lay other pipes to and from the reservoir and to repair, relocate and replace the same. Upon abandonment of the reservoir by the City, the City covenants to convey the reserved portion to The Rector and Visitors by quitclaim deed.

In exchange for the conveyance by the City of Fredericksburg to The Rector and Visitors as above outlined, The Rector and Visitors are to convey with special warranty to the City of Fredericksburg, a tract of 6.959 acres lying along the easterly side of U.S.Alternate Route No. 1, being a portion of the Brompton tract of land owned by Mary Washington College and, in addition, The Rector and Visitors are to pay to the City the sum of $8,000.00.

The President pointed out that the property to be acquired by The Rector and Visitors would be used as the site of the new science building of the College, and that the portion of the Brompton tract to be acquired by the City would be the site of its new armory.

President Darden then submitted to the Board for consideration the following documents.

(a) Three appraisals of the values of the two properties to be exchanged made by independent real estate appraisers at the request of the College;

(b) Copy of proposed deed from the City of Fredericksburg to The Rector and Visitors with plat of the property to be conveyed attached;

(c) Original of proposed deed from The Rector and Visitors to the City of Fredericksburg, with plat of the property to be conveyed attached;

(d) Abstract of Title and Certificate of Opinion of James Ashby, Jr., of Goolrick, Ashby and Whitticar, Attorneys, covering title to the property to be acquired from the City;

(e) Plat of the entire Brompton tract;

(f) Plat of the Campus of Mary Washington College showing in red the reservoir property being acquired by The Rector and Visitors from the City.

The deeds listed under (b) and (c), the President stated, were submitted in lieu of the contract contemplated by the Board at its April 14, 1956 meeting. All of the papers had been submitted to C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel for The Rector and Visitors and had been approved as to form by him.

After discussion, upon motion duly made and seconded, it was,

RESOLVED, by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the exchange of properties between the City of Fredericksburg and Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia upon the terms and conditions hereinabove outlined in the minutes of this meeting be, and the same is hereby ratified and approved and that Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, and Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., Secretary, be, and they hereby are authorized and empowered, the approval of the Governor of the State of Virginia, as required by Section 23-77.1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, having first been obtained thereto, to execute a deed of conveyance on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, conveying, with Special Warranty of Title, to the City of Fredericksburg, Virginia, the parcel of 6.959 acres of land lying along the easterly side of U. S. Alternate Route No. 1, in the City of Fredericksburg, Virginia, being a portion of the tract of land known as the "Brompton Tract" which was conveyed to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia by deed of C. O'Conor Goolrick and F. M. Chichester, Special Commissioners, dated January 4, 1946, of record in the Clerk's Office of the Circuit Court of Spotsylvania County, Virginia, in D. B. 134, p. 412, and that the said Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to deliver said deed and the sum of $8,000.00 to the City of Fredericksburg, upon delivery to him of a deed from the City of Fredericksburg to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, properly executed and acknowledged, together with a certified copy of the resolution of the Council of the City of Fredericksburg authorizing the execution of said deed, conveying to The Rector and Visitors the tract of 4.022 acres, known as the "Reservoir Tract", in the City of Fredericksburg, Virginia.

In adopting the foregoing resolution the Visitors pointed out the advantage of obtaining an outright reversion of the reservoir property instead of a covenant from the City of Fredericksburg to convey the reserved portion to the University in the future. It was accordingly ordered that Mr. Minor be requested to make a final effort to have the reversion written into the Deed.

President Darden reported that, pursuant to the directions contained in the resolution of the Board adopted at its annual meeting held on June 16, 1956, accepting the offer of the City of Falls Church to purchase the Joseph H. Riley tract of land, subject to the approval by the voters of the City of Falls Church of a bond issue to finance such purchase, Mr. C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel for the University has prepared a contract of sale of said property to be submitted to the Board. The President stated that the contract as prepared had been approved by Mrs. Parker and Mrs. Gage, the life tenants under the will of Joseph H. Riley, and by the City Council of Falls Church.

A copy of the proposed contract was submitted to the Board for consideration.

After discussion, upon motion duly made and seconded, it was

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that the contract of sale by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia of its remainder interest in the Joseph H. Riley tract of land to the City of Falls Church, upon the terms and conditions, and subject to the contingency, therein set out, in the form submitted to this Board be and the same is hereby approved;

RESOLVED, FURTHER, that Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, and Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., Secretary, be, and they hereby are authorized and empowered, the approval of the Governor of the State of Virginia, as required by Section 23-77.1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, having first been obtained thereto, to execute said contract of sale on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

The President stated that a preliminary application for a loan of $150,000.00 had been made to the federal Housing and Home Finance Agency on May 30, 1956, on behalf of Clinch Valley College for the erection of seven buildings to provide ten faculty housing units. It was planned to erect one apartment house of four units which will include a community room and laundry and storage facilities, and six single family homes. It was felt that these seven buildings could be erected at a cost not to exceed the amount of the loan. The University was advised under date of July 24, 1956, that the preliminary application had been approved by the federal Housing and Home Finance Agency and a reservation of funds in the amount of $150,000.00 had been made. Final application with all supporting date must be filed with the Agency not later than October 23, 1956, although if absolutely necessary, the University might obtain an extension of time within which to complete the full application. Among other supporting data to be filed with the final application a resolution of the Board authorizing the making of the loan application was required.

The proposed loan for $150,000.00 would probably be evidenced by bonds aggregating that amount bearing interest at the rate of 2-7/8% per annum and would be amortized over a period of 40 years. However, as the first principal payment would not become due until two years after the signing of the loan agreement the loan would be actually amortized over a 38 year period. The annual payment for principal and interest for each $1000.00 of the loan at 2-7/8% amortized over a period of 38 years would be approximately $43.60. It was proposed that the University would pledge the net revenues to be derived from the operation of the comtenplated facilities as security for the loan.

President Darden advised that under the provisions of Title 23 Chapter 3 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, the University of Virginia was one of the educational institutions which had power, with the consent of the Governor first obtained, to issue bonds, to finance such a project as that outlined, pledging the revenues to be derived from the operation of the facilities to be created as security therefor.

After careful consideration and full discussion of the proposal, upon motion duly made and seconded, it was

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a corporation created and existing under the laws of the State of Virginia, that Vincent Shea, Comptroller of said body corporate, be and he hereby is authorized to make, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, final application to the federal Housing and Home Finance Agency for loan assistance under Title IV of the Housing Act of 1950, in the amount of $150,000.00 for the erection at Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia, of ten faculty housing units, consisting of one apartment house of four units and six single family homes, said application being numbered Va. 44-CH-9(D), and to file the same with said Housing and Home Finance Agency.

President Darden referred to the urgent need for improving the inadequate faculty salaries, and stated that he wished to prepare and attempt to get the Governor's approval of new scales of increased salaries and moderately increased tuition fees to cover the added salary costs. The increased fees, if approved by the Governor, would need to go into the new University catalogues to be printed in December. Mr. Darden said, and he therefore desired authority to proceed in this matter without the necessity of calling a Board meeting for approval of the detailed schedules of fees and salaries.

The Board resolved that the President be authorized to proceed with the upward revision of fees and salaries, subject to the Governor's approval and to put the new schedules into effect in catalogues for the 1957-58 session, subject to ex post facto approval by the Board.

In commenting on the election of Mr. W. M. E. Rachal (as noted above) to be the University's representative on the Board of Editors for the publishing of James Madison's papers, President Darden informed the Board of the serious illness of Professor Leonard D. White of the University of Chicago. As Mr. White is the senior of the two editors representing the University of Chicago in this joint project of the two universities, Mr. Darden pointed out that there would be a delay in getting the editing work organized and under way.

President Darden read to the Board the following letter from Dr. Thomas H. Hunter, Chairman of the Nursing School Advisory Committee:

At a meeting of the Nursing School Advisory Committee, with all members present this morning, it was unanimously agreed that the plan of reorganization of the Department of Nursing as a separate School of Nursing with the arrangements which we have discussed previously, be recommended to you and to the Board of Visitors. To be more specific, we should like to recommend that the Department of Nursing become The University of Virginia School of Nursing, with a separate dean and with full academic status as a separate school within the University. It would be understood that in academic matters the School of Nursing would have complete autonomy, but that in administrative matters effecting the Medical Center, the Dean of the School of Nursing would answer to the Director of the Medical Center (the Dean of the Medical School).

It was the opinion of the Advisory Committee that this arrangement would recognize the academic equality of the Nursing School Faculty, would enjance the stature of the School and would recognize the already existing independence of the structure of the Department of Nursing as regards registration, admissions and curriculum matters, but at the same time that administrative matters concerning the operation of the hospital and the medical school as well would be under the direct control of the Director of the Medical Center. I might add that this general type of arrangement has been in operation in a number of other schools and has been found satisfactory in general.

I had planned to discuss this matter with Mr. Vaughan at the earliest opportunity, but he is out of town at present. I shall let you know as soon as I have had an opportunity to talk with him, what his feeling about the arrangement proposed is.

The Committee also felt that it would be unwise to proceed with active search for a Head of the School of Nursing until the question of organization has been settled, but they expressed a desire to do this as rapidly as possible.

President Darden reported that Dr. Hunter had now discussed the plan with the Provost, who concurs in recommending it. After discussion the Board adopted the following resolution on motion of Mrs. Smith, duly seconded.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Department of Nursing be and it is hereby established as a school of the University with full academic status, independent of the School of Medicine in academic matters, and with a separate dean,

RESOLVED FURTHER that in administrative matters affecting the University's Medical Center, the Dean of the School of Nursing shall be subordinate to the Director of the Medical Center (i.e., the Dean of the School of Medicine).

President Darden having reported to the Visitors a request from Dean Charles C. Abbott to be permitted to use the "Salle Lafayette" in Pavilion VI, the Board resolved that this request be referred to the Committee on Buildings and Grounds with authority to act.

The President informed the Board that Mr. Jack Dalton, Librarian of the University since 1950, had resigned effective October 1st in order to accept an appointment with the American Library Association, under a Rockefeller grant, for the development of libraries in foreign countries.

The Faculty's Library Committee, President Darden noted, was now at work seeking a successor, and if, as he hoped, the Committee recommended a candidate from the present Library staff, he desired authority to proceed with the appointment subject to later action by the Board to confirm the election.

The Board accordingly resolved that the President be authorized to name the new Librarian, subject to subsequent Board action to confirm his decision.

In response to a proposal by Mr. Darden, the Board resolved that that the President be authorized to impose, in consultation with the Traffic Control Committee, a fee in such an amount as he might deem proper upon motor cars owned and operated within the University.

Mrs. Smith reported informally to the Board on decisions reached and matters under consideration by the Committee on Buildings and Grounds, as follows:

(1) The Committee's decision to use in the construction of the new student activities building (Newcomb Hall) brick sample No. 4, as at present displayed opposite West Range, minus the dark headers, but with the mortar slightly darkened.

(2) Dean Abbott's request, as set forth above.

(3) Dr. Sterling Decker's request for an alteration in the right of way to the Bernard Chamberlain tract between the University and the Red Cross tract, so that he could complete the purchase of the tract from Mr. Chamberlain and develop it.

(4) The request from the Phi Delta Theta fraternity to lease a building site between Scott Stadium and the Filtering Plant, carried over from the June meeting, and an additional request for land in the same area from the Phi Epsilon Pi fraternity.

(5) The projected restoration of the interior of the Rotunda to its Jeffersonian arrangement that prevailed from 1826 until the Great Fire of 27 October 1895.

(6) The suggestion for a master plan for University grounds development.

(7) The error made at the June meeting in assigning to Dean Fitz Patrick the house on East Range, it having since developed that Dr. David C. Wilson wishes to continue occupying the house for the present.

The Board resolved as follows. (1) That the requests of Dean Abbott and Dr. Decker be referred back to the Committee with authority to act; (2) That the fraternity requests be referred to the Committee for careful study, in consultation with President Darden and his deputies, and for a report and recommendation to the Board at its next meeting; (3) That further consideration of the Rotunda restoration be deferred until Professor Nichols should complete and set up on the main floor of the Rotunda his model of its original interior, as commissioned by the Board; (4) That consideration of a master plan be deferred, and that the Committee in its further study of the University's physical plant take into account the existing ground plans and give particular thought, in consultation with the President, to the future development of the Scott Stadium area; and (5) That the assignment of Dr. David C. Wilson's house on Fast Range to Dean Fitz Patrick be rescinded.

Mr. Gray, as Chairman of the Finance Committee, referred to the University's practice of making mortgage loans at low rates, currently four and a half per cent, to University personnel and to fraternities. He commented that an increasing demand for such loans was to be anticipated and that his Committee would like to hear from the Board if any Visitors objected to the practice or felt that interest rates should be raised.

Members of the Board pointed out that the loans were made on security the equivalent of that required by banks. No adverse comments were made, and no action was taken.

Mr. Berkeley, as Chairman of the Athletics Committee, laid before the Board copies of "Intercollegiate Athletics Report of Receipts and Disbursements For the Period July 1, 1955 to June 30, 1956". Inviting the Visitors to examine the Report, Mr. Berkeley called attention to an excess of $6,871.92 of disbursements over receipts in 1955-56 and to a net surplus of $8,904.28 on 30 June 1956 resulting from a net surplus of $15,776.20 as of 30 June 1955. The Secretary, Mr. Berkeley said, would submit the Report in triplicate to the Director of the Budget, and file the fourth copy.

Judge Bryan, as Chairman of the special Committee read to the Board the following report:

Pursuant to their appointment by this Board in June, 1956, as its committee to study the question of where the Northern Virginia branch of the University should be located, the undersigned, as a first step in their inquiry, held a public hearing in Alexandria on July 21, after issuing special invitations to the members of the General Assembly in the area and the authorities of the several political subdivisions, as well as general invitations through the press to the interested public, to attend and assist the committee by giving it their views and such information as they thought might be helpful. Thereafter the committee personally investigated the sites suggested, interviewed those persons having particular knowledge of the different tracts, made measurements of the time and distance of the several locations from the populous areas and from the rural sections to be served, and considered the availability thereto of public transportation, sewerage facilities, and water supplies as well as the accessibility of the property by highway, and their situation with respect to the high schools in Northern Virginia.

The committee believes that its foremost and controlling aim should be to place the branch at a point where it would furnish the utmost service to the graduates of the Virginia high schools in Northern Virginia, and to the adult citizens of the State, desiring to continue their education.

The undertaking of the committee was tremendously aided by the earlier thorough study and report of the Advisory Council to the Northern Virginia Center of the University. This is a voluntary group of alumni and others living in Northern Virginia who sensed the demand, and recognized the need, for facilities for higher education in this section, and who brought forth and successfully nurtured the present center now working so responsively and efficiently. They have given unstintingly of their energy and hours in the selection of a site which they could endorse for the permanent location of the branch. Likewise other groups, too, in this part of the State have unselfishly examined into the advisability and feasibility of one location after another for the University's northern branch.

The committee has not treated the question as a controversy between any of the groups, and the groups themselves have been assured that this has not been the attitude of the committee. Its sole concern has been those citizens of Virginia who are to be served by this extension of the University. The members of the several groups have acted wholeheartedly with the committee for this object. They have subordinated all their individual preferences, evincing not the slightest pride of opinion, but offering the committee every assistance within their control. To them the committee is deeply indebted.

After considering all of those that have been suggested, the committee feels that the judgment of the Board may be confined to the Ravensworth tract, the Bowman or Herndon tract, and one of the several offered by Prince William County.

Ravensworth

A liberal offer has been made by the owners of Ravensworth, an old Lee place in Fairfax County, to give to the University the front 50 acres of the estate, now improved by a main dwelling, a smaller dwelling, and a large brick and stone barn. It has a frontage of almost a mile on Braddock Road and is located a few miles east of Little River Turnpike (State Highway 236 becoming Route 50 west of Fairfax Courthouse) between Annandale and Springfield. The grounds are in lawn and meadow and are shaded by numerous sturdy and spreading trees. From the centre of Alexandria the tract is about 10 miles, a drive of slightly more than 20 minutes.

In addition, an option will be given for 18 months to buy an adjoining parcel of 115 acres, at a price to be determined by independent appraisers, a recent appraisal having put a value of $2600 per acre on the land. A like option will be given on a 59.6 acre adjacent tract, and an outright gift is tendered of another abutting 23.9 acres. Thus 238.5 acres are here available; their attractiveness in enhanced by the proximity of the Fort Belvoir reservoir of water.

Besides the land, gifts of money totalling $77,500 will be made by the owners of Ravensworth and other developers and private citizens in the community.

Springfield residents have shown a most earnest interest in the University and have in many ways proven their desire to have the branch near them.

Fairfax County has offered to expend $125,000 for sewering this land through the county system.

Bowman or Herndon Tract

Owning 7000 acres of farm land, known as Sunset Hills, near Herndon, in the northern part of Fairfax County, E. DeLong Bowman, Esquire, and A. Smith Bowman, jr., Esquire, his brother, have generously offered the University its choice of two gifts, including the selection of such location as the University prefers, outlined as follows:

1\. A cash gift of $25,000 and 250 acres; or

2\. A cash gift of $100,000 and 150 acres; plus, in each instance, an option to buy at any time during a 2-year period for $1000 per acre such additional adjacent acreage, not exceeding 250 acres, as the University desires.

On the farm the Bowman brothers operate a distillery but the most desirable land, as the committee views it, is situated more than a mile from, and out of sight of, this commercial operation. The tract is about 2 miles south of Route 7 (the Alexandria-Leesburg pike) approximately 20 miles and 35 minutes from the centre of Alexandria. It touches the corporate limits of the Town of Herndon and the mains of the Town's water supply system extend to it. Natural gas lines are at hand and Herndon has offered to cooperate in any sewerage problem, having in mind either an independent system or some arrangement in conjunction with its own disposal plant.

The land has no buildings on it but lies well; it is accessible by secondary roads on each side. Numerous Loudoun County residents have recommended the selection of this site.

Prince William County Sites

At the committee's public hearing, Prince William County very liberally offered the committee, as a gift to the University, a 110-acre tract adjoining the Manassas Battlefield Park. Since then the County representatives have given the committee a choice of seven locations, each of them of a large and valuable area. Some are situate to the east of No. 1 highway with frontage on the Potomac River; others are in the vicinity of Manassas or the Battlefield Park. Any one of them would be a desirable site and could be developed into beautiful college grounds.

The delegation appearing for Prince William expressed and proved their sincerity of interest in the University. They explained the sharp need of collegiate educational facilities in the rural sections of Northern Virginia for the high school graduates and the hardship these young men and women are suffering through the absence of any such facilities near their homes. A separate map of Prince William County, with the several offered sites marked thereon, accompanies this report.

Recommendation

After giving due weight to the many advantages of all of these sites, and being guided by the factors already mentioned, the committee recommends the acceptance of the Bowman offer No. 1 - the sum of $25,000 and 250 acres with the option to purchase additional land up to another 250 acres.

It recommends, too, that the land be taken from that part of the farm bounded by Brown's Chapel Road (Rt. 606), Ridge Road (Rt. 602) and R. 680, which is the line of the Town of Herndon. This tract has a relatively high elevation, with a view of the Blue Ridge Mountains, is easily reached by highway, and has public utilities at hand.

In its selection of a site the committee believes that it should consider the reasonably expected growth of this part of Virginia, and that it should reasonably anticipate the future extension westwardly and northwardly of the present populous areas, having in mind also the needs of the adjacent rural communities of Virginia. The branch is to be a Virginia institution to serve Virginia and it should be located where its accessibility will accomplish that purpose. Another dominant feature of the Bowman tract is that it now permits, and will for some years allow, acquisition of additional land for expansion of the University centre, thus avoiding the problem of constriction so frequently faced in after-years by institutions serving a rapidly developing territory.

It is this latter consideration which heavily contributed to incline the committee to choose the Herndon vicinity instead of Ravensworth. Another persuasive consideration was the probability of the construction of another national airport near Ravensworth, at Burke. The operation of such an installation, despite all scientific effort to minimize it, would not allow the quiet that is sought for classroom and campus. The Advisory Council was without knowledge of this prospect when it made its study and report.

A map is returned herewith showing Fairfax County, Arlington County, Alexandria, and Falls Church together with the present and proposed highways in this section of the State.

Maps were exhibited by the Committee, and Mr. Howard inaugurated the ensuing discussion by pointing out that the Bowman site, toward which the center of population in the area is moving, is already the center of the high schools within a forth-mile radius.

On motion of Mr. Gray, duly seconded, the Board resolved that the Committee be thanks for its painstaking work on this problem, that the text of the Report be released to the public, and that a final decision by the Board on a site for the College be deferred until the next regular meeting on December 8th.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Miss Charmenz S. Lenhart, as Assistant Professor of English and Music in Mary Washington College be and it is hereby accepted effective August 20, 1956.

The Chancellor informed the Board of the following appointments, both effective September 1, 1956:

Miss Mary Ellen Stephenson, as Assistant Dean of Students.

Mrs. Inez F. Matthews, as Assistant Bursar.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:

Jesse Bythwood Jackson, Visiting Professor of Mathematics, at a salary of $5900.00 for ten months' period, incumbency to begin September 1, 1956.

Dr. John T. Fauls, Assistant Professor of Psychology, at a salary of $4600.00 for ten months' period, incumbency to begin September 1, 1956.

Walter Houghton Bishop, Instructor in French, at a salary of $4000.00 for ten months' period, incumbency to begin September 1, 1956.

Dr. Russell S. Ratcliffe, Full-time Instructor in Psychology and Education, at a salary of $4000.00 for ten months' period, incumbency to begin September 1, 1956.

Jack B. Thomas, Instructor in Sociology, at a salary of $4000.00 for ten months' period, incumbency to begin September 1, 1956.

John C. Williams, Instructor in Biology, at a salary of $4000.00 for ten months' period, incumbency to begin September 1, 1956.

Norman William Wishner, Instructor in English, at a salary of $4000.00 for ten months' period, incumbency to begin September 1, 1956.

On motion of Mrs. Smith, duly seconded, the Board resolved that the title of the Dean of Women be and it is hereby changed to Dean of Students.

Chancellor Simpson laid before the Board the following table showing enrollment figures at the College as of 12 September 1956:

The Chancellor laid before the Board the Report of Carrol H. Quenzel, Librarian of the College, covering operation, development, use, and needs of the E. Lee Trinkle Library for the year ending 30 June 1956.

After discussion it was ordered that copies be placed in the Secretary's files.

The Board took action to approve the deeds for the exchange of properties with the City of Fredericksburg as detailed above in the first section of the minutes.

Dr. Simpson invited the attention of the Board to his inaugural as Chancellor on October 19th, and expressed the hope that all of the Visitors and their families might find it possible to attend and to participate in the ceremonies.

A quandary in which the College is placed by the loss of its operating surplus was brought to the attention of the Board by the Chancellor, who pointed out that the Governor has declined to permit the College to use the appropriation of $725,000 for the building only, with equipment to be secured through surplus funds, as had been proposed by the Board.

Discussion brought out that the drastic curtailment of the building indicated by this decision would result a very few years hence in exorbitantly high costs to the College. Action was deferred.

The Chancellor laid before the Board the following letter from the Bursar of the College:

I am writing you relative to the proposed plan for the construction of a new dormitory housing approximately 176 students for which we have an appropriation of $192,500.00.

Should we construct a building housing 176 students, the cost of the building and equipment would be approximately $704,000.00, leaving $511,500.00 to be provided from the bond issue. The building would produce revenue, at the current rate of $153.00 per session, totalling $26,928.00. Should bonds be issued bearing interest at 3% for 25 years, I estimate that it would cost approximately $29,360.00 to service these bonds exclusive of the maintainence cost of the building. Thus, before any maintainence is taken into consideration, there would be a deficit of $2,432.00.

Should we construct a dormitory housing 120 students, it is estimated that it would require a bond issue of approximately $287,500.00. A dormitory housing 120 students at the current rent of $153.00 would produce revenue totalling $18,360.00. Should we issue bonds for 25 years bearing interest at 3%, the annual cost of servicing would require approximately $16,500.00, leaving a surplus of approximately $1,800.00.

It would appear, therefore, that unless funds would be provided by action of the Board from other sources, the project could not be sustained if a dormitory housing 176 students were constructed. However, should the size of the dormitory be reduced to house approximately 120 students, it is my belief that such a dormitory would permit the project to be sustained from the revenues which the building would produce.

I submit this information for your consideration.

President Darden joined the Chancellor in recommending authorization to proceed with the smaller size dormitory building to house 120 students. It was pointed out that approval by the Board of this plan would be interpreted by the Administration as implying approval of plans to request an appropriation from the next General Assembly for another dormitory of similar size in order to relieve congestion in the dormitories and permit the discontinuance of the use of Cornell Hall, a leased building that is located several blocks from the campus.

The Board resolved that the plan for a small dormitory to house approximately 120 students be and it is hereby approved.

The Board resolved that, in view of verbal agreements already entered into, the request of the Federal Housing Authority for allocation of housing at Mary Washington College in the event of a national emergency be and it is hereby declined with regret.

The Rector presented a request from Miss Charmenz Lenhart, formerly of the College Faculty, to appear before the Board to comment on the reasons for her resignation and to propose a memorial to the late President Combs. Pointing out that it has had under consideration since 17 December 1955 (the date on which the Board was officially informed of Dr. Combs' death) a plan to name the new science building for Dr. Combs, the Board resolved to hear Miss Lenhart at its next regular meeting.

The Chancellor laid before the Board the Bursar's summary of operations at the College, showing a surplus on 30 June 1956 of $451,389.78, which it had been intended (in accordance with a plan approved by the Governor in 1954) to devote to a reduction of the College's indebtedness. Instead of this, the sum of $100,000 had been applied to the debt at the end of the biennium and, by the Governor's order, the remaining $351,389.78 had been transferred to the General Fund of the Commonwealth, as shown in the following summary:

After an extensive discussion of the difficult situation precipitated by the Governor's unexpected order and its various and immediate effects upon many phases of the College's operations, the Board adopted the following resolution, and requested the Visitors' Committee on Mary Washington College to wait upon the Governor, as soon as possible after his projected trip to Europe, for a discussion of the subject.

RESOLVED by unanimous vote of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that we have heard with grave concern of the executive transfer to the General Fund of the Commonwealth of Mary Washington College funds aggregating $351,389.78, which have been painfully accumulated through rigid economies for the reduction of the present substantial indebtedness of the College, that

Being convinced that the Governor of Virginia would not have ordered the transfer of funds if he had been aware of all the circumstances, and

Persuaded, as we are, that the transfer order constitutes not only an injustice to the College, but a serious injury to its progress, morale, and efficiency at a critical period; that it is a radical and unprecedented departure from Virginia's traditionally sound fiscal policies; and that its effect is to discourage frugal and thrifty administration and to give encouragement to wasteful and inefficient practices in this and other educational institutions,

THEREFORE, without a dissenting voice, we have adopted this Resolution, setting forth our anxiety, and reciting the following facts, as an appeal to the Governor to enter an order voiding the transfer of funds:

Following World War II, Mary Washington College was faced with large expenditures. New dormitories, a fine arts building, a student center, student infirmary, and additions to the dining hall and kitchen left the College with debts aggregating approximately $1,600,000. Substantial reductions were made until November 1954, at which time a loan of $1,356,515.57 was obtained from the State Treasury. The State granted the loan with the understanding that it would be reduced as rapidly as possible, and upon the further condition that public financing would be arranged whenever the State wished the balance due it repaid. The president of the University executed a note for $1,356,515.57, delivered it to the Treasurer and set about liquidating it. Tuition fees had been increased in 1950 to help reduce the obligation.

In the meantime it had become apparent that revenues would not permit the College to meet the rising costs of operations and to continue to reduce the debt, as planned, since operating costs had risen so substantially, and since a material increase in faculty salaries was being asked (and was subsequently approved by the Governor) on condition that no additional money be requested of the State. The Mary Washington Committee proposed, and the Board adopted the proposal, that the out-of-state tuition fees be raised from $280.00 to $340.00 a year for the purpose of meeting the increase in faculty salaries while maintaining the program of debt reduction.

The Governor of Virginia and the Director of the Budget on 12 November 1954 addressed to this Board a joint letter giving approval to the College's plan for liquidating its debt, and expressing their confidence in the College's ability to reduce the debt substantially from operating surplus by the time when the note should fall due at the end of the biennium in 1956.

Thereafter by the most careful and diligent work on the part of the College Administration, a very substantial curtailment was made on June 30, 1955, and the debt was lowered to $944,606.33, at which point it stood on June 30, last, the close of the biennium. During the past year by rigid economies, including the postponement of maintenance, repairs, equipment, and improvement items, the College accumulated a surplus of $451,389.78. This sum the Comptroller was asked to apply to the debt when the fiscal year closed.

The Board of Visitors has this day been advised that at the direction of the Governor, $100,000 has been applied to the loan and the balance of $351,389.78 has been transferred to the General Fund of the Commonwealth, leaving a balance due on the College's debt of $844,606.33.

This is, we believe, the first time that an institution of the State has been denied the right to reduce its debt from surplus arising out of its own operation. It does not seem likely that Mary Washington will be able to cope with so large a debt under the plan adopted, since the favorable results of the last biennium cannot be obtained under the changed conditions now existing.

However, there is another and much more formidable reason why the action which has been taken appears unwise. It runs counter to the arrangement under which the Board levied the increased fees on the student body and to the arrangement under which the funds were borrowed, and pursuant to which the President of the University and the Bursar of Mary Washington College made such strenuous efforts to liquidate this obligation. We cannot believe that the Governor was aware of all of the circumstances when his order was entered.

This Board has supported without reservations the efforts of the President and of the Bursar to this end. We have noted with approval the zeal and industry with which they have striven to save money in order to clear the College from debt. How can we in future demand higher tuition fees of the students, and ask the College staff to forego needed equipment and maintenance, all in the interest of debt clearance, if past experience proves that in the end the results of these sacrifices will be conveyed by higher authority from the College to other State purposes?

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that we respectfully urge the Governor of Virginia to give the most searching consideration to the unprecedented situation set forth in this Resolution, with all of its far-reaching implications for the future, and to take under serious advisement our individual and collective belief in the wisdom of a rescinding order.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

The present R.O.T.C. units at the University of Virginia, starting with the Navy in 1940, have been organized at the request of the University. The enrollment in these units is covered by public law. Enrollment is entirely voluntary. (This is not the case at the so-called land grant colleges and universities). The first two years (first year only for the Naval ROTC Regulars) a member may withdraw at his own request. Approval of the resignation is accomplished at the Unit Command level. Starting with the third year, ROTC members receive subsistence compensation, and approval of the resignation can only be made at Departmental (or delegated) level.

Each R.O.T.C. unit is an integral part of the University, and student membership cuts across the lines of the college, the schools, and all of the departments (with the exception of the School of Medicine and the Department of Nursing).

Each of the three R.O.T.C. units is welded together through wearing the uniform of one of the armed services. Within each unit is a spirit of comradery which it is believed should be fostered to the fullest in order to enhance the morale of the service of which the unit is a part. Such morale building effect has in the past been improved through extra-curricular gatherings and activities as have been properly connected with and sponsored by the unit(s). Social gatherings, not the least of which is the annual Military Ball, parade participation and competition and the like, are examples of these extra curricular activities. Such activities do require a slight monetary outlay for which there is no provision within available public funds. It has long been a principle of service life that the financing of such activities should be equally borne by all, and hence, that all should be fully eligible to participate in such activities. Whether or not a member does participate in a particular activity is a matter for him to decide, but being a member of the unit would and should constitute his eligibility. In short, his ticket for participation is his uniform and his pride in wearing it.

Each of the R.O.T.C. units has in the past collected a fee to defray such expenses. In the Spring of 1956 the Student Council considered this fee to be a matter, the collection of which should be properly considered by the Council. Accordingly, they made a very thorough, and it is believed, completely unbiased review of the matter. As a result of the review the President of the Student Council addressed a letter to each of the R.O.T.C. unit commanders. This letter contained the following.

"First, if the fee is to be compulsory for all those who enroll in a particular ROTC, the Council believes that it should first be officially approved by the University. This is to be distinguished from the present informal arrangement, whereby the University has agreed to bank these fees. It is felt that such approval is necessary to justify its collection at registration. It would also alleviate the confusion now existing as to the exact status of the fee."

The units concur with the President of the Student Council, particularly as to the clarification of the status of the fund and the manner of collecting it.

The R.O.T.C. unit student activity fee should be kept small, so as to be as little burden on the individual as possible. It is strongly recommended that it not be permitted to exceed $5.00 per student per annum and that $3.00 (about 1 cent per day) only be exceeded in exceptional circumstances. It is believed that inasmuch as membership in the R.O.T.C. unit is voluntary each member should be required to participate in the fee or to withdraw from the unit, or in the case of third and fourth year members, to submit a request for withdrawal.

It is recommended:

(1) The Board of Visitors approve the collection of this fee.

(2) The fund be held in the custody of the Bursar.

(3) The fund be administered by the unit student organization, subject to the approval of the unit commanding officer.

(4) Withdrawals from the fund only be made with the combined approval of the senior student member of the unit organization and the commanding officer of the unit.

At a meeting of the Nursing School Advisory Committee, with all members present this morning, it was unanimously agreed that the plan of reorganization of the Department of Nursing as a separate School of Nursing with the arrangements which we have discussed previously, be recommended to you and to the Board of Visitors. To be more specific, we should like to recommend that the Department of Nursing become The University of Virginia School of Nursing, with a separate dean and with full academic status as a separate school within the University. It would be understood that in academic matters the School of Nursing would have complete autonomy, but that in administrative matters effecting the Medical Center, the Dean of the School of Nursing would answer to the Director of the Medical Center (the Dean of the Medical School).

It was the opinion of the Advisory Committee that this arrangement would recognize the academic equality of the Nursing School Faculty, would enjance the stature of the School and would recognize the already existing independence of the structure of the Department of Nursing as regards registration, admissions and curriculum matters, but at the same time that administrative matters concerning the operation of the hospital and the medical school as well would be under the direct control of the Director of the Medical Center. I might add that this general type of arrangement has been in operation in a number of other schools and has been found satisfactory in general.

I had planned to discuss this matter with Mr. Vaughan at the earliest opportunity, but he is out of town at present. I shall let you know as soon as I have had an opportunity to talk with him, what his feeling about the arrangement proposed is.

The Committee also felt that it would be unwise to proceed with active search for a Head of the School of Nursing until the question of organization has been settled, but they expressed a desire to do this as rapidly as possible.

Pursuant to their appointment by this Board in June, 1956, as its committee to study the question of where the Northern Virginia branch of the University should be located, the undersigned, as a first step in their inquiry, held a public hearing in Alexandria on July 21, after issuing special invitations to the members of the General Assembly in the area and the authorities of the several political subdivisions, as well as general invitations through the press to the interested public, to attend and assist the committee by giving it their views and such information as they thought might be helpful. Thereafter the committee personally investigated the sites suggested, interviewed those persons having particular knowledge of the different tracts, made measurements of the time and distance of the several locations from the populous areas and from the rural sections to be served, and considered the availability thereto of public transportation, sewerage facilities, and water supplies as well as the accessibility of the property by highway, and their situation with respect to the high schools in Northern Virginia.

The committee believes that its foremost and controlling aim should be to place the branch at a point where it would furnish the utmost service to the graduates of the Virginia high schools in Northern Virginia, and to the adult citizens of the State, desiring to continue their education.

The undertaking of the committee was tremendously aided by the earlier thorough study and report of the Advisory Council to the Northern Virginia Center of the University. This is a voluntary group of alumni and others living in Northern Virginia who sensed the demand, and recognized the need, for facilities for higher education in this section, and who brought forth and successfully nurtured the present center now working so responsively and efficiently. They have given unstintingly of their energy and hours in the selection of a site which they could endorse for the permanent location of the branch. Likewise other groups, too, in this part of the State have unselfishly examined into the advisability and feasibility of one location after another for the University's northern branch.

The committee has not treated the question as a controversy between any of the groups, and the groups themselves have been assured that this has not been the attitude of the committee. Its sole concern has been those citizens of Virginia who are to be served by this extension of the University. The members of the several groups have acted wholeheartedly with the committee for this object. They have subordinated all their individual preferences, evincing not the slightest pride of opinion, but offering the committee every assistance within their control. To them the committee is deeply indebted.

After considering all of those that have been suggested, the committee feels that the judgment of the Board may be confined to the Ravensworth tract, the Bowman or Herndon tract, and one of the several offered by Prince William County.

Ravensworth

A liberal offer has been made by the owners of Ravensworth, an old Lee place in Fairfax County, to give to the University the front 50 acres of the estate, now improved by a main dwelling, a smaller dwelling, and a large brick and stone barn. It has a frontage of almost a mile on Braddock Road and is located a few miles east of Little River Turnpike (State Highway 236 becoming Route 50 west of Fairfax Courthouse) between Annandale and Springfield. The grounds are in lawn and meadow and are shaded by numerous sturdy and spreading trees. From the centre of Alexandria the tract is about 10 miles, a drive of slightly more than 20 minutes.

In addition, an option will be given for 18 months to buy an adjoining parcel of 115 acres, at a price to be determined by independent appraisers, a recent appraisal having put a value of $2600 per acre on the land. A like option will be given on a 59.6 acre adjacent tract, and an outright gift is tendered of another abutting 23.9 acres. Thus 238.5 acres are here available; their attractiveness in enhanced by the proximity of the Fort Belvoir reservoir of water.

Besides the land, gifts of money totalling $77,500 will be made by the owners of Ravensworth and other developers and private citizens in the community.

Springfield residents have shown a most earnest interest in the University and have in many ways proven their desire to have the branch near them.

Fairfax County has offered to expend $125,000 for sewering this land through the county system.

Bowman or Herndon Tract

Owning 7000 acres of farm land, known as Sunset Hills, near Herndon, in the northern part of Fairfax County, E. DeLong Bowman, Esquire, and A. Smith Bowman, jr., Esquire, his brother, have generously offered the University its choice of two gifts, including the selection of such location as the University prefers, outlined as follows:

1\. A cash gift of $25,000 and 250 acres; or

2\. A cash gift of $100,000 and 150 acres; plus, in each instance, an option to buy at any time during a 2-year period for $1000 per acre such additional adjacent acreage, not exceeding 250 acres, as the University desires.

On the farm the Bowman brothers operate a distillery but the most desirable land, as the committee views it, is situated more than a mile from, and out of sight of, this commercial operation. The tract is about 2 miles south of Route 7 (the Alexandria-Leesburg pike) approximately 20 miles and 35 minutes from the centre of Alexandria. It touches the corporate limits of the Town of Herndon and the mains of the Town's water supply system extend to it. Natural gas lines are at hand and Herndon has offered to cooperate in any sewerage problem, having in mind either an independent system or some arrangement in conjunction with its own disposal plant.

The land has no buildings on it but lies well; it is accessible by secondary roads on each side. Numerous Loudoun County residents have recommended the selection of this site.

Prince William County Sites

At the committee's public hearing, Prince William County very liberally offered the committee, as a gift to the University, a 110-acre tract adjoining the Manassas Battlefield Park. Since then the County representatives have given the committee a choice of seven locations, each of them of a large and valuable area. Some are situate to the east of No. 1 highway with frontage on the Potomac River; others are in the vicinity of Manassas or the Battlefield Park. Any one of them would be a desirable site and could be developed into beautiful college grounds.

The delegation appearing for Prince William expressed and proved their sincerity of interest in the University. They explained the sharp need of collegiate educational facilities in the rural sections of Northern Virginia for the high school graduates and the hardship these young men and women are suffering through the absence of any such facilities near their homes. A separate map of Prince William County, with the several offered sites marked thereon, accompanies this report.

Recommendation

After giving due weight to the many advantages of all of these sites, and being guided by the factors already mentioned, the committee recommends the acceptance of the Bowman offer No. 1 - the sum of $25,000 and 250 acres with the option to purchase additional land up to another 250 acres.

It recommends, too, that the land be taken from that part of the farm bounded by Brown's Chapel Road (Rt. 606), Ridge Road (Rt. 602) and R. 680, which is the line of the Town of Herndon. This tract has a relatively high elevation, with a view of the Blue Ridge Mountains, is easily reached by highway, and has public utilities at hand.

In its selection of a site the committee believes that it should consider the reasonably expected growth of this part of Virginia, and that it should reasonably anticipate the future extension westwardly and northwardly of the present populous areas, having in mind also the needs of the adjacent rural communities of Virginia. The branch is to be a Virginia institution to serve Virginia and it should be located where its accessibility will accomplish that purpose. Another dominant feature of the Bowman tract is that it now permits, and will for some years allow, acquisition of additional land for expansion of the University centre, thus avoiding the problem of constriction so frequently faced in after-years by institutions serving a rapidly developing territory.

It is this latter consideration which heavily contributed to incline the committee to choose the Herndon vicinity instead of Ravensworth. Another persuasive consideration was the probability of the construction of another national airport near Ravensworth, at Burke. The operation of such an installation, despite all scientific effort to minimize it, would not allow the quiet that is sought for classroom and campus. The Advisory Council was without knowledge of this prospect when it made its study and report.

A map is returned herewith showing Fairfax County, Arlington County, Alexandria, and Falls Church together with the present and proposed highways in this section of the State.

I am writing you relative to the proposed plan for the construction of a new dormitory housing approximately 176 students for which we have an appropriation of $192,500.00.

Should we construct a building housing 176 students, the cost of the building and equipment would be approximately $704,000.00, leaving $511,500.00 to be provided from the bond issue. The building would produce revenue, at the current rate of $153.00 per session, totalling $26,928.00. Should bonds be issued bearing interest at 3% for 25 years, I estimate that it would cost approximately $29,360.00 to service these bonds exclusive of the maintainence cost of the building. Thus, before any maintainence is taken into consideration, there would be a deficit of $2,432.00.

Should we construct a dormitory housing 120 students, it is estimated that it would require a bond issue of approximately $287,500.00. A dormitory housing 120 students at the current rent of $153.00 would produce revenue totalling $18,360.00. Should we issue bonds for 25 years bearing interest at 3%, the annual cost of servicing would require approximately $16,500.00, leaving a surplus of approximately $1,800.00.

It would appear, therefore, that unless funds would be provided by action of the Board from other sources, the project could not be sustained if a dormitory housing 176 students were constructed. However, should the size of the dormitory be reduced to house approximately 120 students, it is my belief that such a dormitory would permit the project to be sustained from the revenues which the building would produce.

I submit this information for your consideration.

The present R.O.T.C. units at the University of Virginia, starting with the Navy in 1940, have been organized at the request of the University. The enrollment in these units is covered by public law. Enrollment is entirely voluntary. (This is not the case at the so-called land grant colleges and universities). The first two years (first year only for the Naval ROTC Regulars) a member may withdraw at his own request. Approval of the resignation is accomplished at the Unit Command level. Starting with the third year, ROTC members receive subsistence compensation, and approval of the resignation can only be made at Departmental (or delegated) level.

Each R.O.T.C. unit is an integral part of the University, and student membership cuts across the lines of the college, the schools, and all of the departments (with the exception of the School of Medicine and the Department of Nursing).

Each of the three R.O.T.C. units is welded together through wearing the uniform of one of the armed services. Within each unit is a spirit of comradery which it is believed should be fostered to the fullest in order to enhance the morale of the service of which the unit is a part. Such morale building effect has in the past been improved through extra-curricular gatherings and activities as have been properly connected with and sponsored by the unit(s). Social gatherings, not the least of which is the annual Military Ball, parade participation and competition and the like, are examples of these extra curricular activities. Such activities do require a slight monetary outlay for which there is no provision within available public funds. It has long been a principle of service life that the financing of such activities should be equally borne by all, and hence, that all should be fully eligible to participate in such activities. Whether or not a member does participate in a particular activity is a matter for him to decide, but being a member of the unit would and should constitute his eligibility. In short, his ticket for participation is his uniform and his pride in wearing it.

Each of the R.O.T.C. units has in the past collected a fee to defray such expenses. In the Spring of 1956 the Student Council considered this fee to be a matter, the collection of which should be properly considered by the Council. Accordingly, they made a very thorough, and it is believed, completely unbiased review of the matter. As a result of the review the President of the Student Council addressed a letter to each of the R.O.T.C. unit commanders. This letter contained the following.

"First, if the fee is to be compulsory for all those who enroll in a particular ROTC, the Council believes that it should first be officially approved by the University. This is to be distinguished from the present informal arrangement, whereby the University has agreed to bank these fees. It is felt that such approval is necessary to justify its collection at registration. It would also alleviate the confusion now existing as to the exact status of the fee."

The units concur with the President of the Student Council, particularly as to the clarification of the status of the fund and the manner of collecting it.

The R.O.T.C. unit student activity fee should be kept small, so as to be as little burden on the individual as possible. It is strongly recommended that it not be permitted to exceed $5.00 per student per annum and that $3.00 (about 1 cent per day) only be exceeded in exceptional circumstances. It is believed that inasmuch as membership in the R.O.T.C. unit is voluntary each member should be required to participate in the fee or to withdraw from the unit, or in the case of third and fourth year members, to submit a request for withdrawal.

It is recommended:

(1) The Board of Visitors approve the collection of this fee.

(2) The fund be held in the custody of the Bursar.

(3) The fund be administered by the unit student organization, subject to the approval of the unit commanding officer.

(4) Withdrawals from the fund only be made with the combined approval of the senior student member of the unit organization and the commanding officer of the unit.

At a meeting of the Nursing School Advisory Committee, with all members present this morning, it was unanimously agreed that the plan of reorganization of the Department of Nursing as a separate School of Nursing with the arrangements which we have discussed previously, be recommended to you and to the Board of Visitors. To be more specific, we should like to recommend that the Department of Nursing become The University of Virginia School of Nursing, with a separate dean and with full academic status as a separate school within the University. It would be understood that in academic matters the School of Nursing would have complete autonomy, but that in administrative matters effecting the Medical Center, the Dean of the School of Nursing would answer to the Director of the Medical Center (the Dean of the Medical School).

It was the opinion of the Advisory Committee that this arrangement would recognize the academic equality of the Nursing School Faculty, would enjance the stature of the School and would recognize the already existing independence of the structure of the Department of Nursing as regards registration, admissions and curriculum matters, but at the same time that administrative matters concerning the operation of the hospital and the medical school as well would be under the direct control of the Director of the Medical Center. I might add that this general type of arrangement has been in operation in a number of other schools and has been found satisfactory in general.

I had planned to discuss this matter with Mr. Vaughan at the earliest opportunity, but he is out of town at present. I shall let you know as soon as I have had an opportunity to talk with him, what his feeling about the arrangement proposed is.

The Committee also felt that it would be unwise to proceed with active search for a Head of the School of Nursing until the question of organization has been settled, but they expressed a desire to do this as rapidly as possible.

Pursuant to their appointment by this Board in June, 1956, as its committee to study the question of where the Northern Virginia branch of the University should be located, the undersigned, as a first step in their inquiry, held a public hearing in Alexandria on July 21, after issuing special invitations to the members of the General Assembly in the area and the authorities of the several political subdivisions, as well as general invitations through the press to the interested public, to attend and assist the committee by giving it their views and such information as they thought might be helpful. Thereafter the committee personally investigated the sites suggested, interviewed those persons having particular knowledge of the different tracts, made measurements of the time and distance of the several locations from the populous areas and from the rural sections to be served, and considered the availability thereto of public transportation, sewerage facilities, and water supplies as well as the accessibility of the property by highway, and their situation with respect to the high schools in Northern Virginia.

The committee believes that its foremost and controlling aim should be to place the branch at a point where it would furnish the utmost service to the graduates of the Virginia high schools in Northern Virginia, and to the adult citizens of the State, desiring to continue their education.

The undertaking of the committee was tremendously aided by the earlier thorough study and report of the Advisory Council to the Northern Virginia Center of the University. This is a voluntary group of alumni and others living in Northern Virginia who sensed the demand, and recognized the need, for facilities for higher education in this section, and who brought forth and successfully nurtured the present center now working so responsively and efficiently. They have given unstintingly of their energy and hours in the selection of a site which they could endorse for the permanent location of the branch. Likewise other groups, too, in this part of the State have unselfishly examined into the advisability and feasibility of one location after another for the University's northern branch.

The committee has not treated the question as a controversy between any of the groups, and the groups themselves have been assured that this has not been the attitude of the committee. Its sole concern has been those citizens of Virginia who are to be served by this extension of the University. The members of the several groups have acted wholeheartedly with the committee for this object. They have subordinated all their individual preferences, evincing not the slightest pride of opinion, but offering the committee every assistance within their control. To them the committee is deeply indebted.

After considering all of those that have been suggested, the committee feels that the judgment of the Board may be confined to the Ravensworth tract, the Bowman or Herndon tract, and one of the several offered by Prince William County.

Ravensworth

A liberal offer has been made by the owners of Ravensworth, an old Lee place in Fairfax County, to give to the University the front 50 acres of the estate, now improved by a main dwelling, a smaller dwelling, and a large brick and stone barn. It has a frontage of almost a mile on Braddock Road and is located a few miles east of Little River Turnpike (State Highway 236 becoming Route 50 west of Fairfax Courthouse) between Annandale and Springfield. The grounds are in lawn and meadow and are shaded by numerous sturdy and spreading trees. From the centre of Alexandria the tract is about 10 miles, a drive of slightly more than 20 minutes.

In addition, an option will be given for 18 months to buy an adjoining parcel of 115 acres, at a price to be determined by independent appraisers, a recent appraisal having put a value of $2600 per acre on the land. A like option will be given on a 59.6 acre adjacent tract, and an outright gift is tendered of another abutting 23.9 acres. Thus 238.5 acres are here available; their attractiveness in enhanced by the proximity of the Fort Belvoir reservoir of water.

Besides the land, gifts of money totalling $77,500 will be made by the owners of Ravensworth and other developers and private citizens in the community.

Springfield residents have shown a most earnest interest in the University and have in many ways proven their desire to have the branch near them.

Fairfax County has offered to expend $125,000 for sewering this land through the county system.

Bowman or Herndon Tract

Owning 7000 acres of farm land, known as Sunset Hills, near Herndon, in the northern part of Fairfax County, E. DeLong Bowman, Esquire, and A. Smith Bowman, jr., Esquire, his brother, have generously offered the University its choice of two gifts, including the selection of such location as the University prefers, outlined as follows:

1\. A cash gift of $25,000 and 250 acres; or

2\. A cash gift of $100,000 and 150 acres; plus, in each instance, an option to buy at any time during a 2-year period for $1000 per acre such additional adjacent acreage, not exceeding 250 acres, as the University desires.

On the farm the Bowman brothers operate a distillery but the most desirable land, as the committee views it, is situated more than a mile from, and out of sight of, this commercial operation. The tract is about 2 miles south of Route 7 (the Alexandria-Leesburg pike) approximately 20 miles and 35 minutes from the centre of Alexandria. It touches the corporate limits of the Town of Herndon and the mains of the Town's water supply system extend to it. Natural gas lines are at hand and Herndon has offered to cooperate in any sewerage problem, having in mind either an independent system or some arrangement in conjunction with its own disposal plant.

The land has no buildings on it but lies well; it is accessible by secondary roads on each side. Numerous Loudoun County residents have recommended the selection of this site.

Prince William County Sites

At the committee's public hearing, Prince William County very liberally offered the committee, as a gift to the University, a 110-acre tract adjoining the Manassas Battlefield Park. Since then the County representatives have given the committee a choice of seven locations, each of them of a large and valuable area. Some are situate to the east of No. 1 highway with frontage on the Potomac River; others are in the vicinity of Manassas or the Battlefield Park. Any one of them would be a desirable site and could be developed into beautiful college grounds.

The delegation appearing for Prince William expressed and proved their sincerity of interest in the University. They explained the sharp need of collegiate educational facilities in the rural sections of Northern Virginia for the high school graduates and the hardship these young men and women are suffering through the absence of any such facilities near their homes. A separate map of Prince William County, with the several offered sites marked thereon, accompanies this report.

Recommendation

After giving due weight to the many advantages of all of these sites, and being guided by the factors already mentioned, the committee recommends the acceptance of the Bowman offer No. 1 - the sum of $25,000 and 250 acres with the option to purchase additional land up to another 250 acres.

It recommends, too, that the land be taken from that part of the farm bounded by Brown's Chapel Road (Rt. 606), Ridge Road (Rt. 602) and R. 680, which is the line of the Town of Herndon. This tract has a relatively high elevation, with a view of the Blue Ridge Mountains, is easily reached by highway, and has public utilities at hand.

In its selection of a site the committee believes that it should consider the reasonably expected growth of this part of Virginia, and that it should reasonably anticipate the future extension westwardly and northwardly of the present populous areas, having in mind also the needs of the adjacent rural communities of Virginia. The branch is to be a Virginia institution to serve Virginia and it should be located where its accessibility will accomplish that purpose. Another dominant feature of the Bowman tract is that it now permits, and will for some years allow, acquisition of additional land for expansion of the University centre, thus avoiding the problem of constriction so frequently faced in after-years by institutions serving a rapidly developing territory.

It is this latter consideration which heavily contributed to incline the committee to choose the Herndon vicinity instead of Ravensworth. Another persuasive consideration was the probability of the construction of another national airport near Ravensworth, at Burke. The operation of such an installation, despite all scientific effort to minimize it, would not allow the quiet that is sought for classroom and campus. The Advisory Council was without knowledge of this prospect when it made its study and report.

A map is returned herewith showing Fairfax County, Arlington County, Alexandria, and Falls Church together with the present and proposed highways in this section of the State.

I am writing you relative to the proposed plan for the construction of a new dormitory housing approximately 176 students for which we have an appropriation of $192,500.00.

Should we construct a building housing 176 students, the cost of the building and equipment would be approximately $704,000.00, leaving $511,500.00 to be provided from the bond issue. The building would produce revenue, at the current rate of $153.00 per session, totalling $26,928.00. Should bonds be issued bearing interest at 3% for 25 years, I estimate that it would cost approximately $29,360.00 to service these bonds exclusive of the maintainence cost of the building. Thus, before any maintainence is taken into consideration, there would be a deficit of $2,432.00.

Should we construct a dormitory housing 120 students, it is estimated that it would require a bond issue of approximately $287,500.00. A dormitory housing 120 students at the current rent of $153.00 would produce revenue totalling $18,360.00. Should we issue bonds for 25 years bearing interest at 3%, the annual cost of servicing would require approximately $16,500.00, leaving a surplus of approximately $1,800.00.

It would appear, therefore, that unless funds would be provided by action of the Board from other sources, the project could not be sustained if a dormitory housing 176 students were constructed. However, should the size of the dormitory be reduced to house approximately 120 students, it is my belief that such a dormitory would permit the project to be sustained from the revenues which the building would produce.

I submit this information for your consideration.