 TEI to HTML

DEATH OF DOWELL JENNINGS HOWARDDEATHS OF PROFESSORS DISQUE AND HYDEBOARD TO MEET ON APRIL 27THGIFTS AND GRANTSRESIGNATIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCEPROMOTIONSELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTSUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSSECURITY RESOLUTION ADOPTEDCHARLOTTESVILLE'S REQUEST FOR RIGHT OF WAYCONSOLIDATED ENDOWMENT FUNDCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ARCHITECTURELIBRARIAN'S FACULTY STATUSALBRIGHT PUBLICATION OF RICHARD LECTUREMEDICAL FACULTY SALARIES AND EARNINGSMAJOR MEDICAL INSURANCE PLANDEAN HUNTER'S SALARYRANDOLPH McPHERSON'S LETTERSNORTHERN VIRGINIA COLLEGEMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSDORMITORY CONSTRUCTION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mr. Samuel M. Bemiss, to the Alderman Library for the purchase of an early illustrated "Aesop"

$375.00

From Professor A. G. A. Balz, to the Alderman Library, philosophical work of the 17th and 18th centuries, valued at

393.00

From Mr. Valerien Lada-Mocarski, a copy of the Paris 1783 United State Constitutions, valued at

280.00

From Mr. Chapin Jones, 525 books valued at

695.75

From an anonymous donor, contribution for a debate prize for students majoring in economics and commerce

150.00

From Mr. E. Thornton Tayloe, 840 volumes, valued at

826.45

From Mr. and Mrs. J. Carroll Flynn, to be added to the Samuel Forrest Hyde Memorial Fellowship Fund

250.00

From Mr. Forrest Hyde, for the Samuel Baker Woods Award

250.00

From the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation, for the collection of Jeffersoniana

5,000.00

From Ambassador Philip K. Crowe, 363 books of Ceylon, valued at

3,413.50

From the J. L. Camp Foundation, to be added to the scholarship fund, for a scholarship to a student from England (NO PUBLICITY)

2,000.00

From Mr. A. Gordon Stephenson, to the Hospital to be used for the benefit of the Department of Urology

1,000.00

From Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Brady, Jr., to the University Hospital

500.00

From the estate of the late Mr. Joseph H. Riley, to the Department of Biology, "to found a school and museum of Vertebrate Zoology"

100,000.00

From Mrs. Doris K. Neale, for the Doris K. Neale Fellowship for 1957-58

500.00

From Mr. Joseph Mintzer, for the Tumor Clinic

200.00

From Mrs. Frances Thigpen, to be used for the purchase of equipment in the Davis Wing of the Hospital

100.00

From Mrs. Carolyn Carter, to be used for the purchase of equipment for the Davis Wing of the Hospital

$500.00

From Mr. R. J. Stockham, to be added to the Medical Alumni Fund

1,000.00

From Glen Echo Farm, for the purchase of equipment for the Children's Rehabilitation Center

1,000.00

From the estate of the late Mr. Henry A. Johnston, to be added to the endowment fund of the University

8,000.00

From the estate of the late Mr. Newton J. Painter, to be added to the endowment fund of the University

667.85

From Mr. and Mrs. William H. White, Jr., to be added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Cancer Fund, securities valued at

10,796.00

From General Motors Corp., for two scholarships for the 1956-57 session

1,900.00

From an anonymous donor, to be used for the benefit of the McGregor Library, securities valued at

9,800.00

From an anonymous donor, to the Medical School to be added to the House Staff Scholarship Fund

2,400.00

From the Sycamore Tree Trust, to the Hospital for the Maternal Health Clinic

2,000.00

From the Sycamore Tree Trust, to the Hospital to establish the Ann Shepherd Fund for Neurosurgery

1,000.00

From the National Fund for Medical Education, in support of the Medical School

34,175.00

From the American Medical Education Foundation, in support of the Medical School

15,392.50

From the Charlottesville and Albemarle Cerebral Palsy Association, to the Hospital for the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

1,463.00

From the Hospital Auxiliary, to be used for the Hospital

3,991.70

From Mr. John D. Gordon, to be added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Cancer Fund

100.00

From the Duke Laboratory Foundation, to the Department of Dermatology and Syphilology for research

500.00

From various sources, to be added to the Frank Howard Lahey Memorial Fund

545.00

From the Upjohn Company, for research under the direction of Drs. Parson and Crispell, of the Dept. of Internal Medicine

3,500.00

From Dr. Eugene L. Jewett, to be added to the Medical Alumni Fund

100.00

From Dr. Ruth S. Jewett, to be added to the Medical Alumni Fund

100.00

From the Irwin, Neisler and Company, for metabolic research under the direction of Dr. Crispell

1,500.00

From the Institute of Life Insurance, to cover the cost of a workshop in Family Financial Security Education during the 1956 summer session

10,372.50

From the Alumni Board of Trustees, to be used for the Piedmont Faculty housing project

100,000.00

From various sources, to be added to the Balz Philosophy Fund as a memorial to Dr. A. G. A. Balz

1,481.00

From the Commonwealth Fund, for the use of the Hospital

47,987.00

From the National Institute of Health, for research under the direction of Dr. Vincent Hollander, of the Tumor Clinic

4,434.50

From the Damon Runyon Memorial Fund, for research under the direction of Dr. William Jenson, of the Department of Biology

4,000.00

From Merck and Company, Inc., for research in chemistry under the direction of Dr. R. T. Major

30,000.00

From A-S-H Industries, Inc., for continued research under the direction of Mr. O. R. Harris, of the School of Engineering

25,000.00

From Union Carbide Nuclear Company, for research under the direction of Mr. O. R. Harris, of the School of Engineering

3,500.00

From the Department of the Army, for continued research under the direction of Dr. R. E. Lutz, of the Department of Chemistry

10,921.36

From the Department of the Navy, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty

Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

$26,500.00

Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

12,500.00

From the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Dr. A. T. Gwathmey

17,951.00

Dr. F. L. Hereford

20,900.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Dr. F. L. Hereford

41,027.88

Dr. G. T. Whyburn

31,062.52

Drs. G. H. Miller and R. A. Lowry

27,500.00

Dr. V. P. Hollander

2,500.00

From the National Science Foundation, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Dr. M. S. McKeehan

6,300.00

Dr. J. W. Beams

8,200.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Dr. Charles Frankel

2,300.00

Dr. Cornelia Hoch-Ligeti

14,950.00

Dr. E. D. Brand

8,519.00

Dr. H. S. McGaughey, Jr.

12,283.00

Dr. D. W. Kupke

2,288.00

Dr. Gerald Goldstein

2,185.00

From the Department of the Army, for continued research under the direction of Mr. B. J. Gilpin, of the School of Engineering

31,000.00

From the National Institute of Health, for an undergraduate training grant in the Department of Neurology and Psychiatry

41,742.00

From the National Science Foundation, for a teacher training grant in science and mathematics for one year

261,300.00

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held its regular meeting at 9:00 A.M. on this date in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present. The Rector, Frank Talbott, Jr.; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., and Visitors Berkeley, Bryan, Coxe, Emmett, Gravatt, Gray, Greear, Hartfield, Jones, McWane, Martin, Pollock, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, and Wheeler. Chancellor Simpson and Mr. Woodward, Bursar of Mary Washington College, were present from 9:00 to 9:30 to discuss matters relating to the College, and Mr. L. Burwell Gunn and Mr. Donald Willcox of the State-Planters Bank were present from 10:10 to 11:00 to discuss the current investments of the Consolidated Endowment Funds.

The minutes of the meeting of 8 December 1956, previously distributed, were approved.

Upon being informed by the Rector of the death on 23 February 1957 of Dowell Jennings Howard, State Superintendent of Public Instruction and a member of this Board since 1949, the Board resolved by unanimous vote that a special committee be appointed to draft a resolution in his memory. The Rector accordingly appointed the following committee: Mr. Berkeley, Mr. Darden, Mr. Smith, Chairman.

President Darden announced to the Board the deaths of Fredrick Charles Disque, former Professor of Architecture, on February 23rd, and of Duncan Clark Hyde, Professor of Economics, on February 26th. Mr. Hyde had served on the faculty since 1929 and Mr. Disque had served, with some interruptions, from 1930 until he retired in 1956.

There were expressions of the affection and esteem in which Professors Disque and Hyde were held, and the Secretary was directed to record in the permanent minutes the deep sense of loss felt by the Board, and the gratitude of the Visitors for their devoted and valuable services to the University.

The Rector reminded the Board that the next meeting, which would normally fall on April 13th, is to be held in Fredericksburg on April 27th.

The President announced the following gifts and grants

The President invited the particular attention of the Board to the Riley bequest and to the National Science Foundation grant. There was general discussion, led by Mr. Darden, Mr. Smith, and Mr. Pollock, of the sources and management of grants for scientific research.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following faculty members be and they are hereby accepted -

Mrs. Grace M. Sheldon, Instructor in Nursing, as of February 7, 1957.

Mrs. Jeanne G. Wilson, Assistant Professor of Nursing, as of January 31, 1957.

Dr. John G. Morrow, Jr., Instructor in Anesthesiology, as of January 1, 1957.

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence without pay -

Dr. Richard Cecil Garlick, Jr., Associate Professor of Romance Languages, for the second semester of the session of 1956-57.

Dr. Cary Grayson Suter, Assistant Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, for one year, as of July 1, 1957.

Dr. E. E. Younger, Professor of History, for the session of 1957-58, to accept a Fulbright grant to teach in India.

Dr. A. L. Hench, Professor of English, for the session of 1957-58, to accept a Fulbright grant to teach in Austria.

Mr. James R. Schlesinger, Assistant Professor of Economics, for the first semester of the session of 1957-58, to participate in a lecture program at the Naval War College.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made -

Mr. John E. Scott, Jr., Acting Associate Professor of Aeronautical Engineering, to Associate Professor of Aeronautical Engineering, for a period of two years, as of February 1, 1957.

Mr. Hiram Gordon Larew, Acting Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, to Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, for a period of two years, as of February 1, 1957.

Mr. Avery Catlin, Instructor in Electrical Engineering, to Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three years, as of September, 1957.

Mr. William H. McFarlane, Instructor in English in the School of Engineering, to Acting Assistant Professor of English in the School of Engineering, for the session of 1957-58.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty -

Dr. Jack Philip Greene, as Instructor in History for the session of 1957-58, at a session salary of $4,750.

Mrs. Emmajean McGinty, as Assistant Instructor in Pediatric Nursing, on a part-time basis, at a salary of $2,880 a year, beginning February 14, 1957.

Mrs. Sarah L. Johnson, as Assistant Instructor in Obstetrical Nursing, on a part-time basis, for four months - February, March, April and May, 1957 - at $75 per month.

Mrs. Charles L. Quittmeyer as Associate Professor of Commerce in the McIntire Undergraduate School of Commerce, for a period of three years, effective in September, 1957, at a session salary of $7,200.

Mr. Edgar Lowell Steele, who has been a part-time Instructor since 1955, as Instructor in Chemistry, beginning in September, 1957.

Mr. Charles Ernest Echols as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, effective in September, 1957, for a period of three years, at a session salary of $6,000.

Dr. Hugh Stevenson Landes as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering for three years, effective in September, 1957, at a session salary of $6,000.

Dr. Donald Rathbun as Instructor in Neurology and Psychiatry as of July 1, 1957, at a salary of $7,500 per year, to be paid without cost to the University. He will be Acting Director of the Seizure Control Clinic.

Dr. James E. John as Instructor in Pathology, effective January 1, 1957, at a salary of $5,000 a year, $3,600 of which is to come from the State budget for the Department and $1,400 from departmental earnings.

Mrs. Ninalei Bader Poore as Instructor in Nursing, effective January 15, 1957, at an annual salary of $3,600, on a temporary basis. This is a replacement for Mrs. Wilson.

Mr. Frederick S. Morton as Research Associate Professor in the Graduate School of Business Administration, effective February 1, 1957, for a three-year term, at a session salary of $9,000, to be paid by the Lincoln Foundation.

Mr. Calhoun Winton as Assistant Professor of English for three years, beginning in September, 1957, at a session salary of $6,000.

Mr. Alden Hopkins as Lecturer in the School of Architecture for the second semester of the current session, 1956-57, at a stipend of $1,200.

Mr. Clifford Frank Owen as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics for the session of 1957-58, at a session salary of $6,000.

Mr. John L. Walker as Lecturer in Law for the second semester of the session of 1956-57, at a salary of $500.

Mr. Frank K. Gibson as Assistant Professor of Political Science for three years, beginning June 15, 1957, at a salary of $5,800 per year, to come from the Bureau of Public Administration.

Mr. Paul M. Gaston as Instructor in History for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $4,500.

Dr. Robert E. DuBey as Assistant Professor of Education at Clinch Valley College, as of September 1, 1957, at a salary of $5,000 for the session. (1957-58 only.)

Mr. Leland B. Yeager as Assistant Professor of Economics for three years, as of September, 1957, at a session salary of $6,500.

Dr. Ian Stevenson as Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry and Chairman of the Department, as of July 1, 1957, at a salary of $12,000 from the State budget plus $5,000 from the psychiatric teaching grant, and that he be allowed to earn up to the ceiling established for other clinical department chairmen under the new plan.

Dr. Robert D. Gardner as Instructor in Neurology and Psychiatry, at a salary of $9,000 a year, to be paid from departmental earnings, as of July 1, 1957.

Dr. Daniel J. Meador as Associate Professor of Law for three years, at a salary of $7,000 per session.

Mr. John C. McCoid as Assistant Professor of Law for three years, beginning in September, 1957, at a session salary of $5,600.

Mr. Gravatt commented on the void left in the Law Faculty by the retirement of Mr. Donald R. Richberg, and expressed the hope that effort would be given to finding a man suitable and adequate to fill that gap.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby re-elected

Mr. Joseph Norwood Bosserman, Assistant Professor of Architecture, for a three-year period, effective in June, 1957.

Mr. Albert E. Dupuy, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three years, as of June, 1957.

Mr. Aubrey Huffman, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for three years, as of June, 1957.

Mr. Philip Ryan, Assistant Professor of Mathematics in the School of Engineering, for three years, as of June, 1957.

Miss Annie Laurie Wyant, Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, as of June, 1957.

Dr. Cary Grayson Suter, Assistant Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, for three years, as of July 1, 1957.

Mr. F. A. Iachetta, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for three years, as of June, 1957.

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on July 14, 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps program, the following appointments were announced by the President

First Lieutenant John R. Sayre as Assistant Professor of Military Science and Tactics, in the summer of 1957, at no salary from the University.

Captain William B. Perkins as Professor of Naval Science, effective in the summer of 1957, at no salary from the University. This is a replacement for Captain Smith.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 652, 655, 656, 659, 662 and 663, aggregating $61,768.21, as recommended by it.

The President, seconded by members of the Board, proposed that the Medical Committee proceed, as planned last June, with its study of uncollectible accounts and related matters, and commented on the study he proposed to have made this summer by Professor A. R. Coleman of the Graduate School of Business Administration.

Having been informed by the President of the Navy Department's request for a security resolution that would not need to be readopted at every change in Board membership, the Board adopted after discussion the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the members of the Board, listed as follows - all of them citizens of the United States of America - do not require as members of this Board, nor will their successors require, access to classified security information: Norborne Berkeley, A. V. Bryan, Whitwell W. Coxe, John M. Emmett, J. Segar Gravatt, Fred B. Greear, Horace A. Gray, Jr., Joseph M. Hartfield, Mrs. Belva Dunn Jones, Henry E. McWane, Walter B. Martin, Herbert C. Pollock, Mrs. Herbert McKelden Smith, Howard W. Smith, Frank Talbott, Jr., Miss Lucille Wheeler.

President Darden read to the Board the following letter and displayed to the Visitors an enclosed plat

At our regular Council meeting held on January 7, 1957 I presented the plan which I discussed with you on December 24, for the widening of Jefferson Park Avenue from its intersection with Main Street back to the Hospital entrance.

The Council unanimously agreed that the project was needed to help take care of the very heavy flow of traffic at that intersection. They appropriated $20,000.00 for this work and instructed me to request the University's permission to go ahead with the widening of the street on the West side as shown on the attached plan.

As explained to you the City will construct a rock retaining wall from Main Street to the C&O bridge and will remove only those trees which are absolutely necessary and as were pointed out to you on the ground. The curb and gutter will be replaced South of the bridge and the bank sloped and reseeded. A new sidewalk will be constructed on the East side of Jefferson Park Avenue opposite where the widening takes place.

Please note that we show on the plan a small amount of widening South of the Hospital entrance. We feel this would make the street safer at this point and we feel that this should be done at the same time if you agree.

We will appreciate very much your securing the approval of the Board on the project which will be very beneficial to both the City and the University.

With kindest regards, I am

The Board resolved that the City's request be approved, with authority to the Comptroller to execute the necessary papers, and referred to the University's Special Counsel, with the request that he ascertain whether the Governor's permission will be necessary in order to comply with Virginia State Highway Commission right-of-way requirements.

Mr. Gray, Chairman of the Finance Committee, introduced to the Board Messrs. L. Burwell Gunn and Donald Willcox, of the State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts, who led a discussion of the investments program of the Consolidated Endowment Fund, and presented a 17-page outline entitled "Highlights of the 1957 Annual Report and Summary," a copy of which was ordered to be filed.

President Darden discussed his plan for a simple, functional type of architecture for the Clinch Valley College, and exhibited drawings for the proposed academic building at the College, as designed by Messrs. Johnson, Craven, and Gibson.

There were expressions of general approval for the overall plan, but Mr. Greear suggested that the architects' attention be drawn to the difficulties in temperature control that might result from such extensive use of glass.

The Board resolved that the plans be approved as presented, subject to Mr. Greear's proviso.

President Darden reported that, pursuant to the Board's resolution of 8 December 1956, he had investigated the history of the faculty status of the University Librarian, and had determined that since 1927 the Librarian of the University had in fact held the status of a full professor by virtue of appointment as Librarian, he had accordingly confirmed to the new Librarian, Mr. Wyllie, the status of full professor, to rank from the date of appointment, 1 October 1956.

The President brought to the Board's attention a matter arising in connection with the Richard Lectures in Religion and History established at the University through a bequest under the will of Este Coffinberry of San Francisco.

Dr. W. F. Albright, in 1931, delivered the first Richard Lectures on the subject "The Archeology of Palestine and the Bible". The following year these lectures were published in book form by Fleming H. Revell Company which copyrighted the book. There were three editions published between 1932 and 1935, the book going out of print about 1937. The copyright to the book is owned by Fleming H. Revell Company and does not expire until 1960. However, the University of Virginia is the owner or proprietor of the book and all royalties were paid to it. The contract of Fleming H. Revell Company was with the University.

Dr. Albright has now been approached by another publisher to undertake a revision and republication of the book and has requested the University to release to him any claim it may have as owner or proprietor of the book.

Mr. Darden stated he had explained to Dr. Albright the fact that the University of Virginia, being a state institution, had no authority to give to Dr. Albright or anyone else, any property. It had been suggested, therefore, to Dr. Albright, that the University, subject to the approval of the Board of Visitors, sell to him, all of its rights of ownership and proprietorship in the book for 10% of all royalties from any future edition or editions of the book. This offer is agreeable to Dr. Albright.

After consideration, upon motion duly made and carried, it was

RESOLVED, that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia sell to Dr. W. F. Albright, the author, all rights of ownership or proprietorship it may have in the book "The Archeology of Palestine and the Bible", published by Fleming H. Revell Company, at the price of 10% of all royalties from any future edition or editions of the book, and that Vincent Shea, Comptroller of the University of Virginia, be and he hereby is, authorized and empowered to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, such agreements, other instruments or papers necessary or advisable to complete the sale of such interest to Dr. Albright upon said terms.

President Darden presented the following letter from the Comptroller

Enclosed is a copy of the proposal of the Committee on Private Practice of the Clinical Staff of the Medical School. This proposal has been reviewed by the Dean and approved by him, and I went over it yesterday with Dr. Vest.

The basic change in the proposal is a lift of the maximum compensation by 12 1/2%. Hence, a doctor receiving $20,000 would go to $22,500 and one receiving $15,000 would go to $16,875.

There is one further change in the distribution of surplus. At the present time, this is divided 40% to the doctors, 40% to the Research and Development Fund and 20% to departmental reserve. They are proposing that this split be 50 - 30 - 20, subject to the reservation that under no circumstances will the Research and Development Fund be less than $40,000 per year.

With the increase in limits of 12 1/2%, I do not believe the change from 40 to 50 in the distribution will result in any increase above the amount these men are now receiving from the distribution of surplus.

If you approve of this plan, and it seems quite reasonable to me, it will require the approval of the Board before it can be put into effect.

The Report of the Committee on Private Practice to the Clinical Staff, enclosed in the Comptroller's letter, was ordered to be filed with the minutes.

The Board resolved that the provisions of the foregoing Report be approved, as summarized in the Comptroller's letter and recommended by the President.

The President read to the Board the following letter, recommending approval

You will recall that before you left for your trip around the world I mentioned that the Committee on Contractual Relations was considering a new type of insurance provided by the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association.

Very briefly, this program would be added to the present Blue Cross-Blue Shield coverage. There would be a $100 amount which the individual would have to pay, similar to that provided in automobile collision policies, after which the major medical insurance would pay 80% of all costs up to $15,000 per illness, with the subscriber paying the other 20%. The sharing of cost is deliberate in the program to prevent excessive charges.

Should the Board be willing to pay one-half the cost, an individual faculty member, unmarried, would have to pay 82¢ per month, a married faculty member, with or without children, would pay $2.12 per month or roughly $25 a year.

The cost to the University, should all faculty members and administrators of grade 8 or above participate, (the same group covered by our group insurance program) would amount to $8,820 per year.

I should like to recommend very strongly that the Board underwrite one-half the cost of this program. Should the Board approve, it would still require participation by 75% of those eligible.

The Board resolved that the new type TIAA Medical Insurance Plan be adopted, as recommended by the Comptroller on behalf of the Faculty Committee on Contractual Relations.

Commenting on the outstanding work done by Dr. Thomas H. Hunter, Dean of the School of Medicine, who had recently refused the offer of the deanship of The Johns Hopkins Medical School at an annual salary of $25,000, President Darden requested the Board's approval of an increase of Dr. Hunter's salary to $20,000.

On motion of Mr. Smith, duly seconded, the Board resolved that this increase be approved.

The Rector read to the Board the text of a letter addressed to the Governor of Virginia on 22 December 1956 by Mr. Randolph McPherson of Norfolk. Mr. Talbott also read to the Board a copy of a letter that he had written to Governor Stanley on 15 January 1957, in reply to Mr. McPherson's charges, and a letter of March 1957 addressed to the Board by Mr. McPherson. Copies of these letters were ordered to be filed.

The Board resolved that the Rector be requested to reply to Mr. McPherson's letter, denying the charges in such terms as he might consider appropriate.

The Rector and the President presented to the Board seven letters recommending Ravensworth and Herndon as sites for the proposed Northern Virginia College of the University, a plan and plat of the proposed Sunset Hills development at Herndon, a report and summary of the membership and activities of the Advisory Council to the Northern Virginia Extension Center, and a resolution adopted by the Board of Supervisors of Fairfax County on 6 March 1957 urging the establishment of a branch of the University within Fairfax County, and offering to consult further with the Board of Visitors regarding selection of a suitable site and the providing of assistance to the proposed branch by the County.

The Board resolved, after extensive discussion, that it is the sense of this Board that the University should establish a branch junior college in Northern Virginia, providing that the conflicts and sharp differences of opinion in that area can be reconciled so as to procure local support for the project, that it is also the sense of the Board that a final decision be reached by the Board no later than the April 27th meeting.

The Rector asked Mr. Bryan, Mr. Darden, and Mr. Smith to act as a special committee to consult with some of the Northern Virginia legislators and others in a final effort to reconcile conflicting opinions in that area.

Judge Smith, on behalf of the Committee on Mary Washington College, led a discussion of plans for the new dormitory, with participation by Chancellor Simpson and Mr. Woodward, who displayed plans showing the proposed location.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized to construct a dormitory housing 140 students, and located on the east side of the reservoir, to be financed by the sale of bonds and the existing State appropriation of $192,500.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

At our regular Council meeting held on January 7, 1957 I presented the plan which I discussed with you on December 24, for the widening of Jefferson Park Avenue from its intersection with Main Street back to the Hospital entrance.

The Council unanimously agreed that the project was needed to help take care of the very heavy flow of traffic at that intersection. They appropriated $20,000.00 for this work and instructed me to request the University's permission to go ahead with the widening of the street on the West side as shown on the attached plan.

As explained to you the City will construct a rock retaining wall from Main Street to the C&O bridge and will remove only those trees which are absolutely necessary and as were pointed out to you on the ground. The curb and gutter will be replaced South of the bridge and the bank sloped and reseeded. A new sidewalk will be constructed on the East side of Jefferson Park Avenue opposite where the widening takes place.

Please note that we show on the plan a small amount of widening South of the Hospital entrance. We feel this would make the street safer at this point and we feel that this should be done at the same time if you agree.

We will appreciate very much your securing the approval of the Board on the project which will be very beneficial to both the City and the University.

With kindest regards, I am

Enclosed is a copy of the proposal of the Committee on Private Practice of the Clinical Staff of the Medical School. This proposal has been reviewed by the Dean and approved by him, and I went over it yesterday with Dr. Vest.

The basic change in the proposal is a lift of the maximum compensation by 12 1/2%. Hence, a doctor receiving $20,000 would go to $22,500 and one receiving $15,000 would go to $16,875.

There is one further change in the distribution of surplus. At the present time, this is divided 40% to the doctors, 40% to the Research and Development Fund and 20% to departmental reserve. They are proposing that this split be 50 - 30 - 20, subject to the reservation that under no circumstances will the Research and Development Fund be less than $40,000 per year.

With the increase in limits of 12 1/2%, I do not believe the change from 40 to 50 in the distribution will result in any increase above the amount these men are now receiving from the distribution of surplus.

If you approve of this plan, and it seems quite reasonable to me, it will require the approval of the Board before it can be put into effect.

You will recall that before you left for your trip around the world I mentioned that the Committee on Contractual Relations was considering a new type of insurance provided by the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association.

Very briefly, this program would be added to the present Blue Cross-Blue Shield coverage. There would be a $100 amount which the individual would have to pay, similar to that provided in automobile collision policies, after which the major medical insurance would pay 80% of all costs up to $15,000 per illness, with the subscriber paying the other 20%. The sharing of cost is deliberate in the program to prevent excessive charges.

Should the Board be willing to pay one-half the cost, an individual faculty member, unmarried, would have to pay 82¢ per month, a married faculty member, with or without children, would pay $2.12 per month or roughly $25 a year.

The cost to the University, should all faculty members and administrators of grade 8 or above participate, (the same group covered by our group insurance program) would amount to $8,820 per year.

I should like to recommend very strongly that the Board underwrite one-half the cost of this program. Should the Board approve, it would still require participation by 75% of those eligible.

At our regular Council meeting held on January 7, 1957 I presented the plan which I discussed with you on December 24, for the widening of Jefferson Park Avenue from its intersection with Main Street back to the Hospital entrance.

The Council unanimously agreed that the project was needed to help take care of the very heavy flow of traffic at that intersection. They appropriated $20,000.00 for this work and instructed me to request the University's permission to go ahead with the widening of the street on the West side as shown on the attached plan.

As explained to you the City will construct a rock retaining wall from Main Street to the C&O bridge and will remove only those trees which are absolutely necessary and as were pointed out to you on the ground. The curb and gutter will be replaced South of the bridge and the bank sloped and reseeded. A new sidewalk will be constructed on the East side of Jefferson Park Avenue opposite where the widening takes place.

Please note that we show on the plan a small amount of widening South of the Hospital entrance. We feel this would make the street safer at this point and we feel that this should be done at the same time if you agree.

We will appreciate very much your securing the approval of the Board on the project which will be very beneficial to both the City and the University.

With kindest regards, I am

Enclosed is a copy of the proposal of the Committee on Private Practice of the Clinical Staff of the Medical School. This proposal has been reviewed by the Dean and approved by him, and I went over it yesterday with Dr. Vest.

The basic change in the proposal is a lift of the maximum compensation by 12 1/2%. Hence, a doctor receiving $20,000 would go to $22,500 and one receiving $15,000 would go to $16,875.

There is one further change in the distribution of surplus. At the present time, this is divided 40% to the doctors, 40% to the Research and Development Fund and 20% to departmental reserve. They are proposing that this split be 50 - 30 - 20, subject to the reservation that under no circumstances will the Research and Development Fund be less than $40,000 per year.

With the increase in limits of 12 1/2%, I do not believe the change from 40 to 50 in the distribution will result in any increase above the amount these men are now receiving from the distribution of surplus.

If you approve of this plan, and it seems quite reasonable to me, it will require the approval of the Board before it can be put into effect.

You will recall that before you left for your trip around the world I mentioned that the Committee on Contractual Relations was considering a new type of insurance provided by the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association.

Very briefly, this program would be added to the present Blue Cross-Blue Shield coverage. There would be a $100 amount which the individual would have to pay, similar to that provided in automobile collision policies, after which the major medical insurance would pay 80% of all costs up to $15,000 per illness, with the subscriber paying the other 20%. The sharing of cost is deliberate in the program to prevent excessive charges.

Should the Board be willing to pay one-half the cost, an individual faculty member, unmarried, would have to pay 82¢ per month, a married faculty member, with or without children, would pay $2.12 per month or roughly $25 a year.

The cost to the University, should all faculty members and administrators of grade 8 or above participate, (the same group covered by our group insurance program) would amount to $8,820 per year.

I should like to recommend very strongly that the Board underwrite one-half the cost of this program. Should the Board approve, it would still require participation by 75% of those eligible.