 TEI to HTML

1958 CALENDAR OF BOARD MEETINGSGIFTS AND GRANTSELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTRESIGNATIONSLEAVE OF ABSENCEUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSUNCOLLECTIBLE STUDENT ACCOUNTSTUITION INCREASED IN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESSTUITION INCREASED IN SCHOOL OF LAWSUMMER SESSION FEES INCREASED1958 SUMMER SESSION FEESCOACH MARTIN REAPPOINTEDNORTHERN VIRGINIA COLLEGE - SITENORTHERN VIRGINIA COLLEGE - BUDGETCABELL MANUSCRIPTS GIFTLANDSCAPING OF APPROACHES TO ROTUNDAMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSINCREASE IN STUDENT FEES AND INCREASE IN FACULTY SALARIESPRESENT SALARY SCALEPROPOSED SALARY SCALEEffective September 1, 1958SCHOLASTIC APTITUDE TEST, COLLEGE ENTRANCE BOARDSDORMITORY CONSTRUCTION BIDS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Col. Theodore Barnes, to be added to the Toole Memorial Trust Fund, securities valued at

$500.00

From the Robert C. and Francena T. Harrison Foundation, to be added to the Samuel Forrest Hyde Memorial Fund

1,000.00

From an anonymous donor, for support of the Bibliographical Society

500.00

From Dr. Otis Marshall, to the Medical School, to establish the Otis Marshall Loan Fund

100.00

From the W. K. McClure Foundation, for the McClure Scholarship in Foreign Affairs for the 1957-58 session

1,200.00

From the Burlington Industries, $1,000 for the Burlington Industries Scholarship and $1,000 to be added to the general funds of the University

2,000.00

From the Virginia-Carolina Chemical Company, for a fellowship in chemistry for the 1957-58 session

1,800.00

From the National Merit Scholarship Corporation, an unrestricted grant to the University

180.00

From the Thomas Jefferson Civitan Club, to be added to the Children's Rehabilitation Center equipment fund

100.00

From the Virginia Cerebral Palsy Association, for the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

2,500.00

From various sources, to be added to the Balz Philosophy Fund

202.50

From the International Nickel Company, fellowships for the training of teachers of science and mathematics, to be used over a period of three years

$12,000.00

From the estate of the late Dr. Stephen H. Watts, to be added to the Stephen Watts Surgery Fund

59,339.31

From the estate of the late Mrs. Emily Clark Balch, to be added to the Emily Clark Balch Fund

1,665.69

From General Motors Corporation, three scholarships for the 1957-58 session

3,050.00

From General Motors Corporation, for a graduate fellowship in chemistry for the 1957-58 session

1,700.00

From various sources, for grading of the site for the Clinch Valley College building

18,000.00

From the Lincoln Foundation, for the Graduate School of Business Administration

10,000.00

From the Graduate School of Business Administration Endowment Fund, for the Graduate School of Business Administration

20,000.00

From the Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation, for the Woodrow Wilson Department of Foreign Affairs

7,500.00

From the estate of the late Mrs. Ida Ellis White, to be used for the upkeep of the University cemetery

600.00

From Mr. John L. Pratt, for research under the direction of Dr. R. T. Major, of the Department of Chemistry (NO PUBLICITY)

25,000.00

From Dr. C. C. Freed, to the Department of Internal Medicine, for Cardio Research

100.00

From the Tobacco Industry Research Committee, for a fellowship in the Medical School, for the summer of 1957

500.00

From Mr. and Mrs. Christian C. Yegen, for the College, securities valued at

660.00

From the Graduate School of Business Administration Endowment Fund, for scholarships in the Graduate School of Business Administration

3,000.00

From the Winthrop Laboratories, to the Medical School, in support of a clinical study under the direction of Dr. Gorman

1,000.00

From E. I. duPont de Nemours and Company, for research in physics under the direction of Dr. Stephan Berko

3,000.00

From the National Cancer Institute, for continued research under the direction of Dr. Vincent Hollander of the Medical School

8,098.80

From A - S - H Industries, Inc., for research under the direction of Dr. O. R. Harris, of the School of Engineering

4,000.00

From the Union Carbide Nuclear Company, for research under the direction of Dr. O. R. Harris, of the School of Engineering

1,000.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for research under the direction of Dr. G. C. Pitts, of the Medical School

699.40

From the Diamond Ordnance Fuze Laboratories, for research under the direction of Dr. O. R. Harris, of the School of Engineering

17,250.00

From the Department of the Army, for continued research under the direction of Dr. Alfred Chanutin, of the Medical School

31,000.00

From the Department of the Navy, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty

Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

18,000.00

Dr. Stephan Berko

4,000.00

Drs. A. J. Bachrach and F. G. Pattishall

15,330.00

1958-60 Budget Requests

Instructional Costs

$660.28

Overhead Costs

211.65

Total Costs Per Student

$871.93

Revenues

Based on 1958-60 Budget Requests

Unrestricted Endowment - Per Student

$145.00

Law School Endowment - Per Law Student

7.00

Proposed Tuition (Out-of-State)

725.00

$877.00

Virginians

Non-Virginians

Registration Fee

$ 5.00

$ 5.00

Medical Fee, Group I

2.50

2.50

Medical Fee, Group II

5.00

5.00

Tuition, per semester-hour

Education, undergraduate and graduate (including teachers)

8.00

16.00

Nursing undergraduate

8.00

16.00

Graduate School of Arts and Sciences

8.00

16.00

All others

10.00

20.00

Auditing fee for students not enrolled in a full program, per semester-hour

5.00

10.00

Research fee (for thesis, dissertation, or research work not listed under a course number)

15.00

15.00

Student Activities fee

1.00

1.00

Professor

5900

6200

6500

6800

7100

7400

Associate Professor

5000

5250

5500

5750

6000

Assistant Professor

4600

4800

5000

5200

Instructor

4000

4200

4400

4600

Professor

6500

6800

7100

7400

7700

8000

Associate Professor

5500

5750

6000

6250

6500

Assistant Professor

5000

5200

5400

5600

Instructor

4400

4600

4800

5000

A regular meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 10:00 A.M. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present: The Rector, Frank Talbott, Jr.; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr.; the Chancellor, Grellet C. Simpson, and Bursar, Edgar E. Woodward, of Mary Washington College, and Visitors Berkeley, Bryan, Coxe, Emmett, Gravatt, Gray, Greear, Hartfield, McWane, Martin, Mr. Smith, and Wheeler, Absent: Visitors Jones, Paschall, Pollock, and Mrs. Smith.

The 1958 calendar was discussed and it was the sense of the Board that the regular schedule be adhered to with regular meetings as follows:

February 8th

April 12th (Fredericksburg)

June 14th

October 11th

December 13th.

The President announced the following gifts and grants:

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. James C. Sargent as Lecturer in Law for the second semester of the session of 1957-58

Mr. John W. Riely as Lecturer in Law for the second semester of the session of 1957-58.

Mr. Kenneth B. Wheeler as Assistant Professor of Physical Education at Clinch Valley College, effective from January 1, 1958 to July 1, 1958.

Dr. Leo M. Hall as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, effective April 1, 1958, for one year, at a salary of $7,500 to be paid from a grant from the U. S. Public Health Service.

Mr. John H. Pickering, as Lecturer in Law for the second semester of the session of 1957-58 at a compensation of $500.

Dr. Charles F. Hunt as Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective January 1, 1958 at no salary from the University.

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors on 14 July 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps program, the following appointment was announced by the President

Lieutenant Gordon T. Winfield as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, as of the end of the session of 1957-58, at no salary from the University.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following faculty members be and they are hereby accepted

Dr. John Jeffrey Auer, Professor of Speech, as of the end of the session of 1957-58, to take a position at Indiana University.

Dr. Philip G. Smith, Assistant Professor of Education, as of February 1, 1958, to take a position at the University of Tennessee.

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Edwin Earl Floyd, Professor of Mathematics, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay for the session of 1958-59, to do research at the Institute for Advance Study.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 715, 718, 719, 722, 725, 726, 729, 732 and 733, aggregating $94,332.24, as recommended by it.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Committee on Student Accounts be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 10 and 12, aggregating $8,412.53, as recommended by it.

Recommending approval of a proposal by Dean Abbott for an increase of $100.00 in tuition for all students, both Virginians and non-Virginians, in the Graduate School of Business Administration, President Darden pointed out that the resulting total tuition costs ($500.00 for Virginians and $850.00 for non-Virginians) would still be lower than the tuition rates of comparable graduate business schools

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that tuition in the Graduate School of Business Administration be and it is hereby increased by $100 for all students, effective for the academic session 1958-1959.

Inagurating a discussion of the problem of instructional costs and the out-of-state student, President Darden presented the following letter from the Comptroller

In an effort to determine the costs per student in the Law School, I have consulted with the State Auditors who made the last detailed cost study of the University. This study was made for the fiscal year 195253. Applying the general procedures of that study to our present costs, I have come up with the following

The current out-of-state tuition in the Law School is $625.00.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board.

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that tuition for non-Virginia students in the School of Law be and it is hereby increased by $100.00, from the present rate of $625.00 to $725.00, effective for the academic session 1958-1959.

Proposals by Dean Cherry for increased Summer Session fees were presented and recommended by the President.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following schedule of Summer Session fees be and it is hereby adopted, effective for the 1958 Summer Session

President Darden presented, recommending approval, a memorandum from the Provost of the University setting forth the following proposals by the Athletic (3-3-2) Council regarding Mr. Ben S. Martin, Head Coach of Football

1\. That Coach Martin's salary be increased to $11,500, as of February 1, 1958, to February 1, 1959,

2\. That Coach Martin's contract also be extended for three years, from February 1, 1959, to February 1, 1962 at $12,000.

The Board resolved that the President be authorized to proceed in this matter in accordance with the foregoing recommendation by the Provost and the Athletic Council.

The Rector presented to the Visitors several communications, together with maps and plats, relative to the choice of a permanent location for the Northern Virginia College, which now occupies leased quarters at Bailey's Cross Roads. The following letter was read to the Board

I have your Special Delivery letter of November 27 requesting that I provide a set of written proposals to the Board of Visitors covering the sites recommended to the Board by our Board of Control in our letter of November 15th. I regret that you have not had a more prompt response, but I did not receive your letter until December 3rd (Tuesday) when it was forwarded to me in Richmond where I was on the General Assembly inspection tour. I have just returned from this duty.

I assume that by "written proposals" the Board desires a description of the three properties which we have recommended. It is very difficult to describe these adequately by letter because two of them are parts of larger and multiple parcels, and this is especially true when it comes to giving an adequate description of typography, approaches to the property, surroundings, etc. Only by a physical inspection could these details be fully appreciated. It was for this reason we suggested that we should be happy to go over the properties involved in person. I shall, however, try to comply with your request the best I am able. Descriptions of the three properties follow, listed according to alphabetical designation of the tracts by name.

It should be said at the outset that the Board of Control, in considering dozens of parcels of land, adhered as closely as possible to the following criteria

(1) The site should be as near as possible to both the geographical and estimated population center of the populous areas to be served,

(2) The site should be as easy of access as possible and adjacent to arterial highways for ease of transportation,

(3) The site should have approximately 150 acres available, it having been suggested by Mr. Darden that between 100 and 200 acres would be desirable,

(4) The site should have access to sewer and water,

(5) The site should have the best possible approaches and acceptable surroundings,

(6) The site should be within the reasonable financial capacities of the four communities, bearing in mind that the ultimate value of capital improvements and convenience of the public would far offset original land costs.

With the above criteria in mind, the Board agreed that property close to the new circumferential highway between Annandale and Merrifield should have priority of treatment, primarily by reason of ease of access to the largest number of people within the whole district.

Site 1, or the Brenizer Tract

This site, located on the north side of old Lee Highway, just beyond Merifield, is composed of two tracts, one of 99 acres and one of 44 acres. There are additional acres available. It is clear, meadow-type land, immediately usable for development. It is within a few hundred yards of the new circumferential highway, and just off Lee Highway upon which there is public transportation. Fairfax County has just authorized a trunk sewer line within a quarter of a mile of the property. It will be necessary, however, to have a pump station on the property to reach the sewer. Water is available. On two sides the property is bordered by undeveloped land, on the third side is a projected residential development. The fourth side, adjacent to Lee Highway, is presented zoned for business. On the southwest side of the property there is a strip 250 ft. wide by approximately 1100 ft. long now occupied by several houses, which should be ultimately included in the property in order to round out its bounds. There are two very large brick-cement barns on the property. They could be readily converted to temporary class-room space. This latter factor did not, however, have any bearing with the Control Board.

Site 2, the Childs Tract

This tract of 150 acres more or less lies on the south of Route 50 and east of Gallows Road. It is directly adjacent to the new circumferential highway, and one corner of the property would be on the interchange. It is opposite the property recently acquired by the Fairfax Hospital, a $6,000,000 institution. Sewer and water are available, and there is public transportation on Route 50. None of the property adjacent thereto is developed, the Fairfax County Board has complete control of zoning. The land is wooded, largely with 30 to 40 year growth, mostly hardwoods. There are no buildings.

Site 3, or the Ravensworth Tract:

This property of 150 acres is part of the historic Ravensworth Farm. It is just south of Braddock Road and approximately one and a half miles south of Annandale. It is adjacent to the circumferential highway and an interchange is on one corner of the property. It is composed of two tracts under different ownership, both of which are syndicates. That portion proposed by the Board of Control does not have any buildings, but extends from the circumferential interchange to the Ft. Belvoir reservoir, which property is owned by the Federal government. The property has both sewer and water adjacent thereto, it is undeveloped on three sides. The fourth side is being developed into a community of small homes. Fairfax County has control of the zoning Part of the property is clear and part is densely wooded. An area of approximately twenty-three acres is stream land and is only suitable for development as a park. The property is approximately three miles east of the much argued about proposed Burke Airport. Since none of the projected runways or flight patterns go over or near the property, it is the consensus of all real estate developers that neither this nor the adjacent property will be affected.

It should be pointed out as set forth in our letter of November 15th that the Board was not unanimous in the endorsement of this property, the vote being 7 to 1. The chairman of the board was instructed to advise the Board of Visitors of the University that, in its judgment, it is the least desirable of the three tracts for the reasons stated in our letter of November 15th.

I enclose marked maps which show as nearly as possible the locations of the three sites. Since all of these maps were loaned to the Board of Control and are not its property, we would appreciate it if they are returned as soon as they have fulfilled their purpose.

If I can supply further information, or conduct representatives of the Board of Visitors on a tour of the properties, I shall be most happy to do so.

During the discussion, members noted that Sites 1 and 2 had not been considered during previous studies of proposed gift sites, prior to the offer from the Board of Control to procure appropriations from Alexandria, Arlington, Fairfax, and Falls Church, and to purchase a site.

After further discussion, the following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Board wishes to express its appreciation of the offer of three sites for the Northern Virginia College made by the Control Board representing Alexandria, Arlington, Falls Church and Fairfax. The Board believes that either of the tracts suggested, lying adjacent to Route No. 50 and accessible to water and sewer lines which the Control Board indicates to be its first and second choices, is a convenient and suitable location for the College. Should the interested localities purchase either of these properties and present it to the University as a site for the College, the Board of Visitors is prepared to accept it.

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board believes that an early decision is desirable both on account of the approaching session of the Assembly and the further fact that the University has before it an offer of a gift of two hundred and fifty acres of land in Sunset Hills which the Board also regards as a suitable and convenient site. This offer expires on December 31st next.

RESOLVED FURTHER that as soon as a site is acquired the Board is prepared to ask the General Assembly for the funds needed for construction of the College.

It was pointed out that a possibility still existed that the interested localities might fail to raise adequate funds, that other factors might cause a failure by the Board of Control to acquire one of the two preferred sites, and that the University should be in a position to respond promptly to any developments prior to the next Board of Visitors meeting on February 8th.

The Board accordingly resolved that the President and Executive Committee be authorized to accept any of the three sites mentioned in the foregoing resolution, and if necessary to negotiate with representatives of Messrs. A. Smith Bowman, Jr., E. DeLong Bowman, and A. Smith Bowman & Sons, Inc., for an extension beyond 31 December 1957 of the offer of a gift to the University of 250 acres of land in Sunset Hills.

Pointing out that action by the forthcoming session of the General Assembly would be necessary in order to obtain operating funds for the 1958-1960 biennium, President Darden reported that estimates of operating and maintenance needs had been prepared and approved by the Executive Committee of the Board. These estimates, the President stated, indicated that operational funds of $110,000 would be needed for the two-year period in legislative appropriations, and that the State Council of Higher Education had been so informed.

The Board resolved that the action of the President and Executive Committee be approved, and that the President be authorized to proceed in this matter with the Council and other authorities in Richmond.

The Secretary was instructed to communicate by telephone with Mr. Paul H. Farrier, Executive Secretary of the Council of Higher Education, now in session in Richmond, and through him to inform the Council of the action taken at today's Board meeting to insure the acquisition of a permanent site, for which capital outlay appropriations would be required.

President Darden laid before the Board his correspondence of 5-6 December 1957 with Mr. R. E. Cabell, Jr., regarding a proposed gift to the University by Mr. Robert G. Cabell, III, of manuscripts of the noted Virginian author James Branch Cabell. Requesting that the proposed gift be treated as a confidential matter for future announcement, President Darden exhibited also a copy of the custody receipt, dated 17 September 1957, covering thirty-nine manuscripts already held on loan in the vault of the Alderman Library and proposed to be presented to the University.

The Board resolved that the President be authorized to accept the proposed gift and to convey to Mr. Cabell the hearty appreciation of the Board for the offer of these valuable and significant manuscripts.

President Darden discussed the problem of improvements to the terracing north of the Rotunda precipitated by the recent crumbling and collapse of part of the wall along the eastern edge of the terrace. Plans worked out by Dean Fitz Patrick for the terracing, Mr. Darden said, had been approved by the Virginia Fine Arts Commission, and Mr. Alden Hopkins would visit the University during the week-end to advise regarding the handling of the overgrown American boxwood and other shrubbery affected.

The members of the Visitors' Committee on Buildings and Grounds agreed to visit the site with the President after the meeting for an inspection and discussion.

Chancellor Simpson led a discussion of proposals for faculty salary increases which had been approved by the Governor subject to action by the College to finance the major part of the cost from student fees.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized to increase "General College Fees" for all students from $270 to $320 for the nine months session and that the "Tuition Fee" for non-residents of the State of Virginia be increased from $340 to $365 for the nine months session, effective September 1958, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized to grant up to a two-step increase to all members of the faculty, effective September, 1958, as set forth in the following table

Following a discussion of recommendations by Chancellor Simpson, the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized to require all applicants to complete the Scholastic Aptitude Test given by the College Entrance Examinations Board as one of the conditions for admission, effective January 1, 1958, with authority to the Office of Admissions to omit it where it seems desirable in connection with admissions during 1958.

The Chancellor reported that Governor Stanley, during a recent visit to the College, offered to make available an additional sum of approximately $84,000 from his discretionary funds in order to make possible the construction of the new dormitory as planned, and as previously approved by the Board. In view of Governor Stanley's further promise to report this offer to the incoming Governor, Dr. Simpson said that he felt confident in requesting authority from the Visitors to proceed to enter into a contract with the lowest bidder, such contract to be subject of course to a maximum cost of $504,000, and to approval by the Governor.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized, subject to approval by the Governor, to enter into a contract with the lowest acceptable bidder, within the approved maximum cost of $504,000, for the construction of a dormitory in accordance with the plans and specifications prepared by Walford and Wright, Architects, of Richmond, Virginia, and in accordance with the written proposals submitted by the bidders.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

1958-60 Budget Requests

Instructional Costs

$660.28

Overhead Costs

211.65

Total Costs Per Student

$871.93

Revenues

Based on 1958-60 Budget Requests

Unrestricted Endowment - Per Student

$145.00

Law School Endowment - Per Law Student

7.00

Proposed Tuition (Out-of-State)

725.00

$877.00

In an effort to determine the costs per student in the Law School, I have consulted with the State Auditors who made the last detailed cost study of the University. This study was made for the fiscal year 195253. Applying the general procedures of that study to our present costs, I have come up with the following

The current out-of-state tuition in the Law School is $625.00.

I have your Special Delivery letter of November 27 requesting that I provide a set of written proposals to the Board of Visitors covering the sites recommended to the Board by our Board of Control in our letter of November 15th. I regret that you have not had a more prompt response, but I did not receive your letter until December 3rd (Tuesday) when it was forwarded to me in Richmond where I was on the General Assembly inspection tour. I have just returned from this duty.

I assume that by "written proposals" the Board desires a description of the three properties which we have recommended. It is very difficult to describe these adequately by letter because two of them are parts of larger and multiple parcels, and this is especially true when it comes to giving an adequate description of typography, approaches to the property, surroundings, etc. Only by a physical inspection could these details be fully appreciated. It was for this reason we suggested that we should be happy to go over the properties involved in person. I shall, however, try to comply with your request the best I am able. Descriptions of the three properties follow, listed according to alphabetical designation of the tracts by name.

It should be said at the outset that the Board of Control, in considering dozens of parcels of land, adhered as closely as possible to the following criteria

(1) The site should be as near as possible to both the geographical and estimated population center of the populous areas to be served,

(2) The site should be as easy of access as possible and adjacent to arterial highways for ease of transportation,

(3) The site should have approximately 150 acres available, it having been suggested by Mr. Darden that between 100 and 200 acres would be desirable,

(4) The site should have access to sewer and water,

(5) The site should have the best possible approaches and acceptable surroundings,

(6) The site should be within the reasonable financial capacities of the four communities, bearing in mind that the ultimate value of capital improvements and convenience of the public would far offset original land costs.

With the above criteria in mind, the Board agreed that property close to the new circumferential highway between Annandale and Merrifield should have priority of treatment, primarily by reason of ease of access to the largest number of people within the whole district.

Site 1, or the Brenizer Tract

This site, located on the north side of old Lee Highway, just beyond Merifield, is composed of two tracts, one of 99 acres and one of 44 acres. There are additional acres available. It is clear, meadow-type land, immediately usable for development. It is within a few hundred yards of the new circumferential highway, and just off Lee Highway upon which there is public transportation. Fairfax County has just authorized a trunk sewer line within a quarter of a mile of the property. It will be necessary, however, to have a pump station on the property to reach the sewer. Water is available. On two sides the property is bordered by undeveloped land, on the third side is a projected residential development. The fourth side, adjacent to Lee Highway, is presented zoned for business. On the southwest side of the property there is a strip 250 ft. wide by approximately 1100 ft. long now occupied by several houses, which should be ultimately included in the property in order to round out its bounds. There are two very large brick-cement barns on the property. They could be readily converted to temporary class-room space. This latter factor did not, however, have any bearing with the Control Board.

Site 2, the Childs Tract

This tract of 150 acres more or less lies on the south of Route 50 and east of Gallows Road. It is directly adjacent to the new circumferential highway, and one corner of the property would be on the interchange. It is opposite the property recently acquired by the Fairfax Hospital, a $6,000,000 institution. Sewer and water are available, and there is public transportation on Route 50. None of the property adjacent thereto is developed, the Fairfax County Board has complete control of zoning. The land is wooded, largely with 30 to 40 year growth, mostly hardwoods. There are no buildings.

Site 3, or the Ravensworth Tract:

This property of 150 acres is part of the historic Ravensworth Farm. It is just south of Braddock Road and approximately one and a half miles south of Annandale. It is adjacent to the circumferential highway and an interchange is on one corner of the property. It is composed of two tracts under different ownership, both of which are syndicates. That portion proposed by the Board of Control does not have any buildings, but extends from the circumferential interchange to the Ft. Belvoir reservoir, which property is owned by the Federal government. The property has both sewer and water adjacent thereto, it is undeveloped on three sides. The fourth side is being developed into a community of small homes. Fairfax County has control of the zoning Part of the property is clear and part is densely wooded. An area of approximately twenty-three acres is stream land and is only suitable for development as a park. The property is approximately three miles east of the much argued about proposed Burke Airport. Since none of the projected runways or flight patterns go over or near the property, it is the consensus of all real estate developers that neither this nor the adjacent property will be affected.

It should be pointed out as set forth in our letter of November 15th that the Board was not unanimous in the endorsement of this property, the vote being 7 to 1. The chairman of the board was instructed to advise the Board of Visitors of the University that, in its judgment, it is the least desirable of the three tracts for the reasons stated in our letter of November 15th.

I enclose marked maps which show as nearly as possible the locations of the three sites. Since all of these maps were loaned to the Board of Control and are not its property, we would appreciate it if they are returned as soon as they have fulfilled their purpose.

If I can supply further information, or conduct representatives of the Board of Visitors on a tour of the properties, I shall be most happy to do so.

1958-60 Budget Requests

Instructional Costs

$660.28

Overhead Costs

211.65

Total Costs Per Student

$871.93

Revenues

Based on 1958-60 Budget Requests

Unrestricted Endowment - Per Student

$145.00

Law School Endowment - Per Law Student

7.00

Proposed Tuition (Out-of-State)

725.00

$877.00

In an effort to determine the costs per student in the Law School, I have consulted with the State Auditors who made the last detailed cost study of the University. This study was made for the fiscal year 195253. Applying the general procedures of that study to our present costs, I have come up with the following

The current out-of-state tuition in the Law School is $625.00.

I have your Special Delivery letter of November 27 requesting that I provide a set of written proposals to the Board of Visitors covering the sites recommended to the Board by our Board of Control in our letter of November 15th. I regret that you have not had a more prompt response, but I did not receive your letter until December 3rd (Tuesday) when it was forwarded to me in Richmond where I was on the General Assembly inspection tour. I have just returned from this duty.

I assume that by "written proposals" the Board desires a description of the three properties which we have recommended. It is very difficult to describe these adequately by letter because two of them are parts of larger and multiple parcels, and this is especially true when it comes to giving an adequate description of typography, approaches to the property, surroundings, etc. Only by a physical inspection could these details be fully appreciated. It was for this reason we suggested that we should be happy to go over the properties involved in person. I shall, however, try to comply with your request the best I am able. Descriptions of the three properties follow, listed according to alphabetical designation of the tracts by name.

It should be said at the outset that the Board of Control, in considering dozens of parcels of land, adhered as closely as possible to the following criteria

(1) The site should be as near as possible to both the geographical and estimated population center of the populous areas to be served,

(2) The site should be as easy of access as possible and adjacent to arterial highways for ease of transportation,

(3) The site should have approximately 150 acres available, it having been suggested by Mr. Darden that between 100 and 200 acres would be desirable,

(4) The site should have access to sewer and water,

(5) The site should have the best possible approaches and acceptable surroundings,

(6) The site should be within the reasonable financial capacities of the four communities, bearing in mind that the ultimate value of capital improvements and convenience of the public would far offset original land costs.

With the above criteria in mind, the Board agreed that property close to the new circumferential highway between Annandale and Merrifield should have priority of treatment, primarily by reason of ease of access to the largest number of people within the whole district.

Site 1, or the Brenizer Tract

This site, located on the north side of old Lee Highway, just beyond Merifield, is composed of two tracts, one of 99 acres and one of 44 acres. There are additional acres available. It is clear, meadow-type land, immediately usable for development. It is within a few hundred yards of the new circumferential highway, and just off Lee Highway upon which there is public transportation. Fairfax County has just authorized a trunk sewer line within a quarter of a mile of the property. It will be necessary, however, to have a pump station on the property to reach the sewer. Water is available. On two sides the property is bordered by undeveloped land, on the third side is a projected residential development. The fourth side, adjacent to Lee Highway, is presented zoned for business. On the southwest side of the property there is a strip 250 ft. wide by approximately 1100 ft. long now occupied by several houses, which should be ultimately included in the property in order to round out its bounds. There are two very large brick-cement barns on the property. They could be readily converted to temporary class-room space. This latter factor did not, however, have any bearing with the Control Board.

Site 2, the Childs Tract

This tract of 150 acres more or less lies on the south of Route 50 and east of Gallows Road. It is directly adjacent to the new circumferential highway, and one corner of the property would be on the interchange. It is opposite the property recently acquired by the Fairfax Hospital, a $6,000,000 institution. Sewer and water are available, and there is public transportation on Route 50. None of the property adjacent thereto is developed, the Fairfax County Board has complete control of zoning. The land is wooded, largely with 30 to 40 year growth, mostly hardwoods. There are no buildings.

Site 3, or the Ravensworth Tract:

This property of 150 acres is part of the historic Ravensworth Farm. It is just south of Braddock Road and approximately one and a half miles south of Annandale. It is adjacent to the circumferential highway and an interchange is on one corner of the property. It is composed of two tracts under different ownership, both of which are syndicates. That portion proposed by the Board of Control does not have any buildings, but extends from the circumferential interchange to the Ft. Belvoir reservoir, which property is owned by the Federal government. The property has both sewer and water adjacent thereto, it is undeveloped on three sides. The fourth side is being developed into a community of small homes. Fairfax County has control of the zoning Part of the property is clear and part is densely wooded. An area of approximately twenty-three acres is stream land and is only suitable for development as a park. The property is approximately three miles east of the much argued about proposed Burke Airport. Since none of the projected runways or flight patterns go over or near the property, it is the consensus of all real estate developers that neither this nor the adjacent property will be affected.

It should be pointed out as set forth in our letter of November 15th that the Board was not unanimous in the endorsement of this property, the vote being 7 to 1. The chairman of the board was instructed to advise the Board of Visitors of the University that, in its judgment, it is the least desirable of the three tracts for the reasons stated in our letter of November 15th.

I enclose marked maps which show as nearly as possible the locations of the three sites. Since all of these maps were loaned to the Board of Control and are not its property, we would appreciate it if they are returned as soon as they have fulfilled their purpose.

If I can supply further information, or conduct representatives of the Board of Visitors on a tour of the properties, I shall be most happy to do so.