 TEI to HTML

MR. FENWICK, GENERAL MONTAGUE, AND MRS. LANTOR SEATEDCOMMITTEES OF THE BOARD FOR 1958-59PRESIDENT DARDEN'S RESIGNATION ACCEPTEDGIFTS AND GRANTSELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCEPROMOTIONSRESIGNATIONRETIREMENTDEATH OF COLONEL TASHAPPOINTMENTSUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSENGINEERING BUILDING PLANS APPROVEDLIFE SCIENCE BUILDING AND LONG RANGE PLANNINGBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEECLINCH VALLEY AUDITORIUM - GYMNASIUMFACULTY ANNUITY PROGRAMAUTOMOBILES - STUDENT OPERATION AND PARKING RESTRICTEDEXTENSION DIVISION RENAMEDVYSSOTSKY RESIDENCE AT OBSERVATORY TO BE PURCHASEDSTUDENT ACTIVITIES COMMITTEESTATEMENT OF RECEIPTS, DISBURSEMENTS AND BALANCESSTUDENT PUBLICATIONSREPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE STUDENT PUBLICATIONS AND THEIR FINANCIAL SUPPORTIIIIIIIVRESOLUTION CONCERNING STUDENT PUBLICATIONS ADOPTED BY EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF VISITORSNEWCOMB HALL AND THE REAR WING OF PEABODY HALLMcGREGOR LIBRARY GRANTS RENEWEDLAW SCHOOL: SPECIAL NAMED PROFESSORSHIPSHANDY GIFT OF LIBRARY FUNDWITNESSETHSCHEDULE A to "ALDERMAN LIBRARY LIFE HISTORIES DOCUMENTATION FUND OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA"FACULTY HOME MORTGAGESNORTHERN VIRGINIA COLLEGE SITEBUDGET FOR 1958-1959 ADOPTEDENDOWMENT FUND INVESTMENTSMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSCOMMITTEE ON THE COLLEGEELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONSRESIGNATIONPROMOTIONSDEPARTMENT OF MODERN FOREIGN LANGUAGESDEBT DUE STATE TREASURYOLD STUDENT ACCOUNTS CHARGED OFFLEGAL HOLIDAYSBUDGET FOR 1958-1959 ADOPTEDLETTERS FROM MESSRS. GOOLRICK AND SIMPSONENROLLMENT FOR 1958-1959 SESSION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Executive Committee

Mr. Talbott, Chairman

Mr. Berkeley

Mr. Smith

Finance Committee

Mr. Gray, Chairman

Mr. Bryan

Mr. McWane

Mary Washington College Committee

Mr. Greear, Chairman

Gen. Montague

Mrs. Jones

Mrs. Lantor

Miss Wheeler

Athletics Committee

Mr. Fenwick, Chairman

Mr. Coxe

Mr. Berkeley

Dr. Pollock

Medical Committee

Dr. Martin, Chairman

Mr. Greear

Mr. McWane

Buildings and Grounds Committee

Mr. Coxe, Chairman

Col. Hartfield

Mr. Gray

Committee on Nomination of President

Mr. Berkeley

Mr. Bryan

Mr. McWane

Dr. Pollock

Mr. Smith

Mr. Talbott

From Mr. John L. Pratt, for the Pratt Trace Analysis Laboratory (NO PUBLICITY)

$20,000.00

From an anonymous donor, to the Department of Foreign Affairs to pay the honorarium for the Michalowski Lectures

500.00

From Mr. John Puryear, for the hospital

300.00

From Mr. William H. White, Jr., to the Department of Surgery, securities valued at

1,770.91

From the Westinghouse Educational Foundation, to the Engineering School for the use of the Department of Electrical Engineering

2,000.00

From the Westinghouse Educational Foundation, for the Westinghouse Achievement Scholarship in Electrical Engineering for the 1958-59 session

500.00

From the Sperry Gyroscope Company, for two undergraduate scholarships in Engineering for the 1958-59 session

1,500.00

From the Delta Theta Phi law fraternity, for a law scholarship

200.00

From the Allstate Foundation, for ten scholarships in driver education during the 1958 summer session

1,625.00

From the E. I. duPont deNemours Company, to cover the duPont Summer Research Grant awarded to the Department of Chemistry for the summer of 1958

1,500.00

From the V Club, for the V Club Scholarship

400.00

From Mr. Charles R. L. Oder, for a scholarship in Geology

200.00

From the Interfraternity Council, for three scholarships

750.00

From the University Hospital Auxiliary, for the Hospital

1,100.00

From sundry persons, to the hospital to be used for the Meditation Room

189.00

From Mr. Churchill Young, Jr., sundry papers and objects to Alderman Library, valued at

1,500.00

From Charles Pfizer and Company, to the Medical School to be used for metabolic research

8,000.00

From the Student Aid Foundation, for athletic grants-in-aid for the 1957-58 session

72,000.00

From the Population Council, Inc., to the Hospital in support of heredity clinic

2,000.00

From the Old Dominion Foundation, to be used for the assistance of professors in the liberal arts, payment on a three-year pledge

10,000.00

From the Old Dominion Foundation, to be used to prepare preliminary drawings for a training center for teachers of handicapped children

700.00

From the Keyes Foundation, for the John Henry Wheeler Scholarship

250.00

From the estate of the late Mr. L. J. McCormick, for the Observatory

2,083.33

From the 1957 Alumni Fund, contributions made through that office for the following

Faculty Salaries

73,636.44

Summer School Scholarship Fund

1,582.80

Medical School

10,675.00

Virginia Quarterly Review

12.50

Raymond I. Straus, Jr. Memorial Fund

25.00

Department of Athletics

25.00

Cobb Chemical Laboratory

10.00

Balz Philosophy Book Fund

110.00

Cross Fraternity Scholarship Fund

500.00

Department of Geology

755.00

Manly Aylor Scholarship Fund

300.00

Field House

2.50

Department of Psychology

302.00

Department of Economics

5.00

University Chapel

132.00

Bayly-Tiffany Museum

35.00

Engineering Library

10.00

Extension Division

125.00

Department of Music

250.00

Alderman Library

1,000.00

From the Alumni Board of Trustees, for the following:

Fuller Law Library

$500.00

Coolidge Law Library

250.00

Law School Foundation Kentucky Scholarship Fund

750.00

William C. Rives Fellowship Fund

250.00

Barksdale Chemistry Library

750.00

Barksdale Engineering Library

750.00

Jones Engineering Library

150.00

Cameron Scholarship

300.00

Epes Scholarship

250.00

Roper Scholarship

250.00

Selden Scholarship

500.00

Sarah Seward Scholarship

250.00

Simon Seward Scholarship

250.00

Watts Scholarship

250.00

From sundry persons, to be added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Fund

125.00

From the Graduate School of Business Endowment Funds, for the Graduate School of Business

24,000.00

From sundry persons, to be added to the Frank Howard Lahey Memorial Fund

837.37

From an anonymous donor, to the Law Library for the purchase of books

1,000.00

From the Seven Society, to the University

77.00

From the Department of the Navy, for continued research under the direction of Prof. Nicolas Cabrera of the Department of Physics

5,600.00

From the U. S. Navy, Bureau of Ordnance, for research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau of the Department of Physics

30,600.00

From Babbitrite Products Company, for research under the direction of Dr. O. R. Harris, School of Engineering

400.00

From the Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, for continued research in Orthopedics under the direction of Dr. J. H. Allan

11,977.78

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for construction of an addition to the Medical Research Laboratories

261,250.00

From the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau, Department of Physics

35,577.00

From the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for continued research in biology under the direction of Dr. J. N. Dent

6,622.00

From the U. S. Army, Philadelphia Ordnance District, for research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau, Department of Physics

41,660.00

From the American Cancer Society, for continued research under the direction of Dr. Cornelia Hoch-Ligeti, School of Medicine

5,973.00

From the Damon Runyon Memorial Foundation, for continued research under the direction of Dr. Vincent Hollander, School of Medicine

8,500.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for continued research under the direction of Dr. W. H. Muller, Jr., School of Medicine

21,397.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for continued research under the direction of Dr. O. R. Rodig, Department of Chemistry

5,445.00

From the Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, for continued research under the direction of Dr. C. L. Gemmill, School of Medicine

6,912.00

a

First offense

$5 fine

b

Second offense

$10 fine

c

Third offense

Suspension of driving privileges

RECEIPTS

Balance June 30, 1957

$4,756.65

Student Fees

1st semester '57-58

10,427.50

2nd semester '57-58

9,793.00

From Jefferson Society (refund)

129.30

From Dance Societies (refund)

1,800.00

From Artist Series (refund)

672.00

Total receipts

$27,578.45

DISBURSEMENTS

Cavalier Daily

$13,714.03

Corks & Curls

3,300.00

Univ. of Virginia Magazine

750.00

Jefferson Society

149.30

Omicron Delta Kappa

40.00

Radio Station WUVA

3,583.45

International Affairs Assoc.

130.00

University Artist Series

1,300.00

National Jazz Fraternity (loan)

750.00

Dance Societies (loan)

3,250.00

$26,966.78

CASH BALANCE ON HAND

$ 611.67

LOANS TO BE REPAID

Dance Societies

1,450.00

National Jazz Fraternity

750.00

$2,200.00

New Year's Day

January 1

Lee-Jackson Day

January 19

Washington's Birthday

February 22

Jefferson's Birthday

April 13

Confederate Memorial Day

May 30

Independence Day

July 4

Labor Day

First Monday in September

Veterans' Day

November 11

Thanksgiving Day

Fourth Thursday in November

Christmas Day

December 25

General Election Day

Days designated as State Holidays by special proclamation of the Governor

The Annual Meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 10:00 A. M. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present. The Rector, Frank Talbott, Jr., President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., and Visitors Berkeley, Bryan, Coxe, Fenwick, Gray, Greear, Hartfield, Lantor, Montague, Jones, McWane, Martin, Pollock, Smith, and Wheeler. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson and Bursar Edgar E. Woodward were present throughout consideration of Mary Washington College matters. Absent: Visitors Paschall (who had an urgent conflicting engagement) and Smith (who was in Charlottesville, though unwell, and participated in the work of three Board committees during the week-end)

The minutes of the meeting of 12 April 1958, previously distributed, were approved as corrected

The Rector introduced and welcomed to the Board Mrs. Raynell Goodman Lantor, of South Boston, Brig. Gen. Edgar Sclater Montague, of Hampton, and Hon. Charles Rogers Fenwick, of Arlington, who had been appointed by the Governor on 13 May 1958 to succeed Mrs. Smith, Dr. Emmett, and Mr. Gravatt, whose second terms had expired on February 28th. Certified copies of their respective oaths of office, which had been delivered to the Secretary, were ordered to be filed

The Visitors reelected to the Executive Committee Mr. Berkeley, Mr. Smith, and Mr. Talbott, and the Rector appointed the six standing committees and one special committee for 1958-59, as follows

The Rector stated that in view of President Darden's fixed intention to retire from the presidency, the Board was now under the necessity, keenly regretted by all of the Visitors, of taking action upon his resignation. After expressing his own regret and commenting on his personal satisfaction in his work as Rector with Mr. Darden, Mr. Talbott read to the Board the following letter

I wish to submit herewith my resignation as President of the University, to be effective as soon as the Board has selected a new President and he is prepared to take over the duties of this office

I shall always be grateful for the Board's unfailing kindness and its generous support. I have a deep and warm feeling for the Board members with whom I have worked since coming to the University, and I shall remember with much pleasure an association which has been for me a most happy and interesting one

Mr. McWane then offered the following resolution

BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Visitors of the University accepts with a strong sense of loss and great regret the firmly expressed decision of its President, Colgate W. Darden, Jr., to relinquish his duties as President effective at the time when his successor is chosen.

His decision brings to the University loss of a great spirit and a great talent, devoted for twelve years in a singularly self-sacrificing fashion to its growth, and to improvement of its standards, its facilities, and its capacity to serve the people of the Commonwealth and the nation.

Monuments to this talent and this devotion appear on every side of us as we meet to hear his decision and to make plans for his succession

It is hard to imagine this University functioning consistently with requirements of this day and age without the physical additions made possible by appropriations forthcoming during President Darden's tenure of office or authorized by the General Assembly while he was Governor. A partial list of them would include new residence units for students (the first such units constructed with State funds since the time of Jefferson), a new Academic Building, a new Physics Building, a new Medical Center now in process of construction, additions to our Law Library, a new Electrical Laboratory, and the University Press. Construction of the University's atomic reactor and opening of the new Student Activities Building have their notable places also in this listing, which is by no means complete

Nor are these monuments to President Darden's talent and devotion confined at all to the area of physical plant, where they represent investments in excess of $17,000,000. They are just as evident in the intangibles which make for the greatness of a university. We have seen reorganization of the work of the College of Liberal Arts and establishment of the Graduate School of Business Administration, we have seen steady improvement in student standards of admission and performance. There has been unremitting effort to raise the scales of faculty compensation and otherwise to foster academic conditions congenial and attractive to those whose life work is that of the scholar and the teacher. The treasure of books and manuscripts in the Alderman Library has been greatly multiplied and the measure of its effective aid to students, faculty, and the University community significantly increased. The ancient beauty of the Grounds has been made more striking by the loving attention of a President who in the midst of his labors could yet always find time for generosity and kindliness to those who have worked with him and under his direction

In company with tangible and intangible things to which we have referred, the inspiration of intellectual leadership, initiative, and research on the part of the faculty has been apparent

For all these things, and many more, the Board of Visitors, the University, and the Commonwealth owe a great debt of gratitude to Colgate Darden and to his wife, Constance, whose warm, vital, and attractive personality has effectively aided her husband's effort, as his friends and associates will quickly testify

The President's decision to retire has been so firmly expressed that we have no hope of changing it, but we order this resolution placed on our minutes as a sincere, though inadequate, expression of our regard for him and our awareness of his determined and effective urge to maintain the University at the level of performance conceived by its Founder

Seconded by many Visitors, the foregoing Resolution was unanimously adopted

Mr. Darden thanked the Visitors for their expressions, and commented briefly upon the happiness of his working association with the Board and its members during his eleven years as the University's chief executive. He hoped that the Board would proceed at once with the procurement of a new president, but said that he would be glad to remain in residence and to administer the University until a successor should be available to relieve him

The President reported the following gifts and grants

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Dr. Patricia M. Andrews as Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, without salary from the University, effective May 1, 1958.

Mr. Harmon Haymes as Junior Instructor in Economics for the session of 1958-59, at a session salary of $4,750.

Mr. William Evans Mosier as Junior Instructor in English, as of September, 1958, at a session salary of $4,750.

Dr. Sterling Randolph Decker as Instructor in Urology, effective as of April 11, 1958, at a salary of $5,000 per year from departmental funds.

Mr. Charles R. McDowell as Visiting Professor of Law for the first semester of the session of 1958-59, to take over Mr. Priest's work during that time, at a salary of $5,800.

Mr. Edward B. Gordon as Lecturer in Business Administration in the Graduate School of Business Administration, for the first semester of the session of 1958-59, at a stipend of $1,500.

Mr. L. B. Middleditch, Jr., as Instructor in Business Administration in the Graduate School of Business Administration for the session of 1958-59

Dr. Billy Eugene Frye as Visiting Assistant Professor of Biology for the session of 1958-59, at a salary of $6,500

Mr. Stuart MacClintock as Visiting Lecturer in Philosophy for the second semester of the session of 1958-59, at a salary of $3,800.

Mr. Pierre E. Conner, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Mathematics for three years, as of September, 1958, at a session salary of $6,600

Dr. Hubert Marshall as Clinical Instructor in Opthalmology, as of July 1, 1958, at no salary from the University

Dr. Robert G. Kindred as Instructor in Orthopedics, as of July 1, 1958, at a salary of $9,000, to be paid from departmental earnings

Mr. Eric Brown as Visiting Lecturer in Architecture for the session of 1958-59

Dr. Julia Emmett Edmunds as Instructor in Pediatrics, as of July 1, 1958, at a salary of $4,800 - $2,400 to be paid from the Department of Pediatrics and $2,400 from the National Fund for Medical Education.

Mr. Edward L. Henson, Jr., as Instructor in History at Clinch Valley College, as of September, 1958, at a session salary of $4,400.

Mr. Frank Eugene Kirby as Visiting Assistant Professor of Music for the session of 1958-59, at a salary of $6,000

Dr. Herbert C. Jones, Jr., as Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, as of July 1, 1958, without salary from the University

Dr. Stanley Smith Stahl, Jr., as Associate Professor of Education for three years, as of September, 1958, at a session salary of $7,000

Mr. George V. Holmes, III, as Associate Professor of Education for three years, as of September, 1958, at a session salary of $7,500

Mr. Sydney Hodkinson as Instructor in Music for the session of 1958-59 at a salary of $5,000, to be paid from the School of Education budget.

Mr. George Sanborn as Instructor in Speech, as of September, 1958, at a salary of $5,750

Mr. Ronald H. Coase as Professor of Economics, as of September, 1958, at a session salary of $12,500. He will be on leave for the session of 1958-59.

Mr. John Bartow Rees, Jr., as Senior Instructor in Law for the session of 1958-59

Mr. Paul Browning Walter as Assistant Professor of Education for three years, effective in September, 1958, to teach extension classes in the Roanoke area, at a salary of $6,000

Mr. Oliver Lee Steele, Jr., as Junior Instructor in English, effective in September, 1958, at a salary of $4,750

The Board resolved further that the President be empowered to act during the summer on Faculty appointments, reporting to the Board at the October 11th meeting on the professors so appointed

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby re-elected

Mr. Morris W. Jones, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three years, as of September, 1958

Mr. Walter P. Walker, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three years, as of September, 1958

Mr. Omer A. Gianniny, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of English in the School of Engineering, for three years, as of September, 1958

Dr. William D. Hedges, Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, as of September, 1958

Dr. William C. Lowry, Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, as of September, 1958

Mr. Maurice Davier, Professor of Business Administration, as of September, 1958

Mr. Joseph L. Blotner, Assistant Professor of English, for three years, as of September, 1958

Mr. Marvin Rosenblum, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, as of September, 1958

Mr. Eric R. Wolf, Assistant Professor of Anthropology in the Department of Sociology, for three years, as of September, 1958.

Mr. David W. Weiss, Assistant Professor of Speech and Drama, for three years, as of September, 1958

Mr. Theodore R. Turner, Assistant Professor of Art, for three years, as of September, 1958

Mr. M. Donald MacInnis, Assistant Professor of Music, for three years, as of September, 1958.

Mr. Walter A. Aron, Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, as of September, 1958

Mr. Shao Chuan Leng, Assistant Professor of Foreign Affairs, for three years, as of September, 1958

Dr. Harry Lee Archer, Assistant Clinical Professor of Surgery, for three years, as of July 1, 1958

Dr. Arthur Morton Smith, Assistant Clinical Professor of Surgery, for three years, as of July 1, 1958

Mr. A. W. Zelomek, Visiting Professor in the Graduate School of Business Administration, for the session of 1958-59, at a salary of $5,500

Mr. Stanley H. Botts, Instructor in Accounting at Clinch Valley College, as of September, 1958.

Miss Harriet H. Fillinger, Lecturer in Chemistry at Clinch Valley College, as of September, 1958.

Mr. John Geronimo, Instructor in English at Clinch Valley College, as of September, 1958.

Mrs. Georgie A. Gurney, Assistant Professor of English at Clinch Valley College, for three years, as of September, 1958

Mrs. Helen M. Lewis, Instructor in Sociology at Clinch Valley College, as of September, 1958.

Mr. Kenneth B. Wheeler, Assistant Professor of Physical Education at Clinch Valley College, for three years, as of September, 1958

Mr. Fred C. McCormick, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three years, as of September, 1958

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence

Dr. Fredson T. Bowers, Professor of English, for the session of 1958-59 without pay, to accept a Guggenheim Fellowship to do research

Dr. Stephan Berko, Associate Professor of Physics, for the session of 1958-59 without pay, to accept a Sloan Fellowship

Dr. Joseph L. Blotner, Assistant Professor of English, for the session of 1958-59 without pay, to accept a Fulbright appointment to lecture in Copenhagen on American literature

Dr. Rowland Egger, Professor of Political Science, for the session of 1958-59 without pay, to accept a Social Science Research grant. Dr. Egger plans to stay in Charlottesville and to supervise the administration of the Departments of Political Science and Foreign Affairs

Dr. Stephen F. Barker, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for the second semester of the session of 1958-59 without pay, to serve as Visiting Lecturer at Harvard

Mr. A. J. G. Priest, Professor of Law, for the first semester of the session of 1958-59 without pay, to complete a book he is writing

Dr. Oscar A. Thorup, Jr., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the session of 1958-59, to do research at Oxford, compensation (part pay) to be arranged under the authorization of the Governor of March 24, 1958, from non-State funds.

Mr. Robert N. Hoskins, Associate Professor of Physical Education, for the session of 1958-59 without pay

Mr. Ronald H. Coase, Professor of Economics, for the session of 1958-59, without pay. The Ford Foundation, under which he will work, requires that members be on leave of absence from their institutions and return to them at the end of the year.

Mr. Charles P. Nash, Professor of Law, for the spring semester of the session of 1958-59 without pay

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made

Dr. Thomas R. Johns, II, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Neurology, as of July 1, 1958

Dr. Quentin N. Myrvik, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Microbiology, as of July 1, 1958

Dr. Grover C. Pitts, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physiology, as of July 1, 1958

Dr. Catherine M. Russell, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Microbiology, as of July 1, 1958.

Mr. Lee R. Johnston, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Business Administration in the Graduate School of Business Administration, for five years, as of September, 1958

Dr. Valfrids Osvalds, Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of Astronomy for three years, as of September, 1958.

Mr. Thaddeus Braxton Woody, Associate Professor, to Professor of Spanish, as of September, 1958

Dr. G. Warren Nutter, Associate Professor, to Professor of Economics, as of September, 1958

Dr. James N. Dent, Associate Professor, to Professor of Biology, as of September, 1958

Mr. James R. Schlesinger, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Economics, as of September, 1958.

Dr. Loren G. Helper, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Chemistry, as of September, 1958

Dr. Richard Scott Mitchell, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Geology, as of September, 1958.

Dr. Gary Seamans Dunbar, Visiting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of Geography for three years, as of September, 1958.

Dr. Guy Hollifield, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Medicine and Preventive Medicine, as of July 1, 1958, for three years.

Dr. James Respess, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Medicine, as of July 1, 1958, for three years

Dr. Bartholomeus Van't Riet, Instructor in Chemistry, to Assistant Professor, for three years, as of September, 1958.

Dr. Francis J. Brooke, III, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of German, for three years, as of September, 1958

Mr. David H. Davis, Instructor, to Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one year, as of September, 1958

Mr. Edward A. Stephenson, Instructor, to Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, as of September, 1958.

Dr. Vincent P. Hollander, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, as of July 1, 1958

Dr. Cary N. Moon, Jr., Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, as of July 1, 1958

Dr. Lorin Thompson, Lecturer in Business Administration, to Professor of Business Administration, part-time, as of September, 1958, at a salary of $3,167

Mr. Samuel Walter Washington, Lecturer in Foreign Affairs, to Acting Professor of Foreign Affairs for the session of 1958-59, at a salary of $8,800

Dr. Bernard W. Busse, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Music, as of September, 1958

Dr. James J. Jones, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, as of September, 1958

Dr. Virgil S. Ward, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, as of September, 1958

Mr. Judd W. Lewis, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Philosophy at Clinch Valley College, as of September, 1958

Mrs. Emma V. McCraray, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Business and Commercial Education at Clinch Valley College, as of September, 1958

Mr. Thomas D. Robinson, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics at Clinch Valley College, as of September, 1958, for three years

Mr. Joseph C. Smiddy, Assistant Professor of Biology and Director at Clinch Valley College, to Associate Professor of Biology and Director at Clinch Valley College, as of September, 1958

Mr. William Lester Wilson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of English at Clinch Valley College, as of September, 1958

Mr. Robert E. DuBey, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education at Clinch Valley College, as of September, 1958

Mr. Theodore W. Gibson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Mathematics at Clinch Valley College, as of September, 1958

Miss Lucia S. Kegler, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages at Clinch Valley College, as of September, 1958, for three years

Mr. Donald Lee Reid, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, as of September, 1958

Mr. Clarence E. Schwartz, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, as of September, 1958

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Edward R. Dyer, Jr., Assistant Professor of Astronomy, as of the end of the session of 1957-58, be and it is hereby accepted

We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking

President Darden announced to the Board the retirement of Dr. Alexander Nicholas Vyssotsky, Professor of Astronomy, as of the end of the present session. Dr. Vyssotsky had served on the faculty of the University since 1923

The Visitors expressed their high regard for Dr. Vyssotsky and their gratitude for his devoted services to the University, and directed the Secretary to record in the permanent minutes of the Board and to convey to Dr. Vyssotsky their good wishes for many years of happiness in his retirement

President Darden announced to the Board the death on April 20th of Colonel Earl Raymond Tash, Professor of Air Science and Tactics, who had served on the University faculty since 1955

There were expressions by the Rector, the President, and the individual Visitors of the affection and esteem in which Colonel Tash was held, and the Secretary was directed to record in the permanent minutes the deep sense of loss felt by the Board, and the gratitude of the Visitors for his devoted and valuable services to the University

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following appointments be and they are hereby made

Miss Katherine Anne Porter as Writer-in-Residence, part-time, for the first semester of the session of 1958-59

Mr. C. Waller Barrett as an appointee to the McGregor Advisory Committee, as of July 1, 1958, for a five-year period

Mr. David J. Mays as an appointee to the McGregor Advisory Committee, as of July 1, 1958, for a five-year period

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board on 14 July 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps programs, the following appointments were announced by President Darden

Lieutenant Colonel A. E. Roughton, Jr., Associate Professor, as Professor of Air Science, as of September, 1958, at no salary from the University

Lieutenant (jg) Jon T. Anderson as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, effective in the summer of 1958, at no salary from the University

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 757, 760, 761, 764, 767, 768, 771, 774 and 775, aggregating $76,924.30, as recommended by it

President Darden displayed sketches of the tentative plans for the new Engineering building as prepared by Commonwealth Engineers and Architects, Associated (in consultation with a Faculty committee) and submitted yesterday to the Art Commission.

After discussion the Board resolved that the matter be referred to the Committee on Buildings and Grounds, with authority to act on any point on which the President might request a decision, the President otherwise to proceed with the planning in consultation with the architect and the Art Commission

President Darden initiated a discussion of the 25-acre tract lying south of McCormick Road, west of the Engineering School, and along both sides of Alderman Road

In response to Mr. Darden's suggestion, the Board resolved that the President be authorized and requested to prepare a plan for the development of the entire McCormick Road-Alderman Road area, in conjunction with the planning of the Life Science Building, and to employ such architectural and engineering assistance as might be needed for projecting the most advantageous placing of future dormitories in relation to the science structures already built or proposed for the future

The Committee on Buildings and Grounds, conferring at the end of the Board meeting, approved the general plan to extend the Engineering building (Thornton Hall) by reproducing the present quadrangle, and using the present type of brick, authorized the President to act on the brick for the Atomic Reactor structure, and requested the President to proceed at his discretion in the removal of trees on Rugby Road, in general accord with the recommendations of the Tree Committee

President Darden presented the following memorandum from the Provost of the University

On May 8 you requested me to find out from the local committee at Wise about what suggestions they had on the location of the auditorium authorized by the Assembly last winter. The committee at Wise has two recommendations first, that Mr. Charles B. McElroy be employed as architect on the gymnasium-auditorium, second, that the gymnasium-auditorium be located on the site between the Coeburn Road and the building now used for faculty apartments (the Old Detention Home)

I am attaching a copy of the Advisory Committee's Resolutions of March 31, 1958. It is my understanding that the Resolutions were presented to you and a carbon sent me

In addition, I am attaching a letter of June 3 in which Mr. Smiddy reports the Advisory Committee reaffirms its position of March 31

The Board resolved that the President be authorized to act at his discretion in the matter of the site for the gymnasium-auditorium and the employment of Mr. McElroy

The President read to the Board the following letter from the Comptroller of the University

I should like to recommend two changes in the present TIAA-CREF annuity program, which should be presented to the Board if you approve.

1 The present maximum basis for determining contributions is $10,000. This figure was set in 1936. I should like to recommend that it be increased to $12,500, the present maximum salary for regular session faculty members. In addition, it might be well to tie the maximum to the maximum session salary so that future increases in the faculty salary scale will be automatically reflected in the annuity program

2 For clinical professors in the Medical School, I should like to recommend the same ceiling apply in so far as compulsory matching is concerned. In addition, should a faculty member wish to contribute 5% of his salary up to a total of $20,000, that such amount be matched from the departmental funds derived from private practice

The Board resolved that the proposed modifications in the Faculty annuity program, as set forth above in the Comptroller's letter of 26 March 1958, be and they are hereby approved and adopted

President Darden read to the Board the following letters and memoranda

The Student Council wishes to submit the following traffic control recommendations for your consideration

1\. The area known as the Dell and the present Engineering School parking lot should be converted into improved parking lots. Chief Houchens of the University Police has approximate figures pertaining to the cost of improving the two lots and to the capacity of the lots

2\. Student parking in the Cabell Hall lot and on the roadway beside the Residence Halls shall be prohibited from 8:30 a. m. to 3:00 p. m. MONDAY through SATURDAY

3\. The present fine system for violations of Student Motor Vehicle Rules and Regulations should be abandoned. The new system should incorporate the following

4\. A student on probation of any kind shall have his driving privileges suspended

5\. Upon registration of a motor vehicle, the applicant must show proof of being able to meet the motor vehicle insurance requirements of the State of Virginia

I would be happy to discuss these recommendations with you at your convenience, if you so desire

I am enclosing a revised copy of the regulations governing use of motor vehicles by students in the undergraduate schools of the University as approved unanimously by the Committee on Undergraduates at its meeting on Friday, May 30, 1958. This meeting was also attended by Miss Tyson from the School of Nursing and Mr. Nichols from the School of Architecture. I strongly recommend adoption of these regulations by the Board of Visitors and propose that they take effect with students entering in September, 1958. I feel that those sections dealing with warning, probation, and conviction of drunken and/or reckless driving should become effective for all undergraduate students in September, 1958

As University Adviser to Students I strongly urge that the stipulations regarding drunken and/or reckless driving should apply to all students in the University. The Committee on Undergraduates is also of this opinion but has no jurisdiction in the matter. I urge that the Board of Visitors consider the advisability of this rule applying to all students

May I call your attention to paragraphs 2 and 3 of my letter of May 20, 1958, regarding my reactions to the recommendations made by the Student Council

No student in the College of Arts and Sciences or Schools of Architecture, Commerce, Education, Engineering or Nursing shall, while the University is in session, maintain or operate a motor vehicle in the University, the City of Charlottesville, or the County of Albemarle, who is

(1) A first, second or third year student

(2) On warning or probation of any kind, or who

(3) While a student in the University is convicted of drunken and/or reckless driving

Authorization for exceptions to the above may be made by the Committee on Undergraduates (This regulation shall apply to students who have earned in regular session less than 80 semester hours in the College and School of Commerce, 90 semester hours in the Schools of Education and Nursing, 107 semester hours in the School of Architecture, and 110 semester hours in the School of Engineering.)

Violation of the foregoing regulations may result in suspension

The Student Council at its meeting on May 19, 1958, unanimously passed the following motion. To recommend that all students who register cars have compulsory insurance

This has just come to the attention of the Subcommittee of the Committee on Undergraduates. We approve this motion and propose the following be made a part of our previous recommendations

Before any student may register his vehicle he must present the following documents

1 State registration

2 State driver's license

3 Certificate of insurance from a recognized insurance company evidencing coverage for public liability for a minimum of $10,000 and $20,000 bodily injury and $5,000 property damage

4 Statement signed by the student's parent or guardian (if the student is under 21) indicating the parent's or guardian's knowledge and understanding of the regulations at the University of Virginia and granting the student permission to operate a motor vehicle at the University

In the general discussion that followed, it was the consensus of opinion that parking lots could not be indefinitely extended into areas such as the Dell. The President noted that Board action was necessary since the Committee on Undergraduates has no authority to act on a University-wide basis regarding students in professional schools. Mr. Fenwick reminded the Board of the new Virginia laws making insurance compulsory for all registered vehicles, and Mr. Pollock inquired whether the proposed liability figures were high enough

The Board resolved that the proposed new regulations, as set forth above (but not the proposed extension and conversion of parking lots), be and they are hereby approved in principle, but that the President shall be free to make modifications in detail and in application

In response to President Darden's endorsement of a proposal made by Dean Zehmer and the resident Extension Division staff, the Board resolved that the Extension Division be and it is hereby renamed the Division of Extension and General Studies

President Darden read to the Board the following memorandum from Mr. Shea

As you know, Prof. Vyssotsky is retiring this June. Approximately 25 years ago he requested permission from the University to build a home near the observatory. President Newcomb advised him that he would bring the matter to the Board of Visitors and secure a lease for him. Mr. Vyssotsky said that he checked several times with Mr. Carruthers, who was then Secretary of the Board, to see if any action had been taken. He was assured that it would be forth coming and to proceed with the construction of his residence

Mr. Vyssotsky stated further that he was concerned and talked to Mr. Allan Perkins, then University Attorney, about the matter who assured him that if Mr. Newcomb had verbally authorized it not to worry about it. I telephoned Mr. Perkins who does not recall Prof. Vyssotsky discussing the matter with him, although he said he might well have for it is difficult for him to remember conversations which took place 25 years ago

Prof. Vyssotsky would like for the University to purchase his house and Dr. Alden of the observatory would very much like to have it for a residence for Dr. Vyssotsky's replacement

Mr. O'Grince has been over the property and feels that it would probably be worth $15,000. I enclose a letter from Mr. Vyssotsky stating that he has spent $10,000 on the property and, with the present depreciated dollar, it is worth $15,000

If the Board thinks well of purchasing the property, I believe we should have appraisals made as a basis for payment

The Board resolved that appraisals on Mr. Vyssotsky's house be obtained, and that the house be purchased for the appraised value or for $15,000, whichever is the lesser figure, but that in no case shall a price in excess of $15,000 be paid for the house

The Report of the Student Activities Committee for 1957-58, copies of which had previously been mailed to all the Visitors, was laid before the Board, as follows

REPORT OF THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES COMMITTEE FOR THE SESSION 1957-58

During the current academic session the Student Activities Committee has met a total of nineteen times. The majority of these meetings was held to consider requests for funds from various student organizations. All budgets and requests were first submitted to the Student Council for investigation and recommendation before being submitted to the Student Activities Committee for action

The committee felt itself charged to provide financial support, upon request, to those student activities which were organized to provide a service to the University as a whole and which could not properly expect departmental support

The Report was highly commended, and President Darden commented on the problem of loans to the dance societies and on other details of the Committee's work

Also laid before the Board were copies of the Report (dated May 26th) of the special Committee on Student Publications created by the Board at the April meeting, together with the final action on the Report which had been taken by the Executive Committee, as directed by the Board, on June 13th, as follows

The special committee, having completed its investigation and study, now reports as follows

That as to student publications generally, the Student Activities Committee has been, and is doing a fine job. No change in procedure or authority with reference to the Student Activities Committee is recommended

A THE CAVALIER DAILY

The Student Council is a responsible student governing body. However, by its constitution, it has no connection with or authority over The CAVALIER DAILY. This separation is designed to make sure that The CAVALIER DAILY would never be used as a political organ in the election of members of the Student Council. This committee feels that such separation is sound and should be continued

B We believe that the existence of a paper such as The CAVALIER DAILY is indispensable to the University, and we find that such a paper cannot exist independently of a subsidy from the University. We, therefore, recommend that the present student fees be continued

C While the separation of the Student Council and The CAVALIER DAILY is salutary, this action has left The CAVALIER DAILY as an institution with a guaranteed income and with no responsibility to any group at the University. We feel that this situation should be remedied. We, therefore, propose that the vice presidents of the several schools of the University shall compose the Board of Directors of the CAVALIER DAILY. That this Board of Directors shall meet at least once each month during the school year, and shall have general supervision of The CAVALIER DAILY, with authority

a To reject or confirm the selection of the Editor, Managing Editor and Business Manager who shall be recommended by the whole staff of The CAVALIER DAILY, with power to remove any or all of these three officers of The CAVALIER DAILY for cause

b To generally oversee the physical management of The CAVALIER DAILY by its Business Manager and Editor-In-Chief

c To receive from The CAVALIER DAILY requests for its necessary operating funds and to review and approve or disapprove all such requests for financial support before these requests are presented to The Student Activities Committee for final consideration and action

d To review and to approve or disapprove and, when desirable, to modify the overall editorial and news reporting policies

e To arrange the time of the election of the officers of The CAVALIER DAILY so as to promote the greatest continuity of personnel possible

This committee recommends that the Student Activities Committee be authorized and requested to establish, as an inducement to the improvement of reportorial and editorial work on The CAVALIER DAILY, annual prizes in appropriate amounts to be paid for excellence in these fields and services to the University and its Student Body

This committee further recommends to the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University that the Board direct forthwith termination of any further publication of THE VIRGINIA SPECTATOR under the sponsorship of The Jefferson Society, and order that hereafter no "humor" publication shall be issued by any students or student organization of the University of Virginia, or by others, which bears the imprint or apparent sponsorship of the University of Virginia, without prior authorization by the Board of Visitors

On consideration of the report of its Special Committee to Investigate Student Publications and Their Financial Support, heretofore submitted by the Chairman of said Special Committee,

BE IT RESOLVED

(1) That so much of said report set forth in Sections II and III thereof as deals with the operation of the CAVALIER DAILY be and the same hereby is approved and adopted as the policy of the Board in regard to the management and operation of the student newspaper known as the CAVALIER DAILY

(2) Consistent with the recommendations set forth in Section IV of said report respecting the publication known as THE VIRGINIA SPECTATOR, heretofore published under sponsorship of the Jefferson Society, that further publication of THE VIRGINIA SPECTATOR, in the best interests of the University, shall be discontinued, that further publication of any "humor" newspaper or magazine under the sponsorship of the University of Virginia or any student organization of the University of Virginia shall be permitted only with the consent and approval of the President of the University or of administrative authorities delegated by him under such conditions and sponsorship as they shall deem proper in the interests of the University

President Darden invited the attention of the Board to one flaw in the otherwise excellent results obtained by the decision to relocate Newcomb Hall at the top of the hill, and therefore close to the rear of Peabody Hall. The greater proximity, Mr. Darden pointed out, had caused a crowded effect at the point where the auditorium wing of Peabody extends westward toward Newcomb Hall. This difficulty had been foreseen by Mr. Darden and the architects, who had consented to the location on the understanding that the unsightly wing of Peabody Hall would later be demolished Despite the relative uselessness of the small and highly unsatisfactory auditorium, Mr. Darden noted, the demolition could not be effected until the new Life Sciences building should be completed, thus affording space for the Psychology staff who now occupy the basement of the wing. The demolition, Mr. Darden emphasized, ought to be carried out at the earliest practicable time, so as to provide adequate approaches to the main entrances of Newcomb Hall and an adequate view of its handsome eastern facade.

President Darden initiated a discussion of the Tracy W. McGregor Library and its work by reading to the Board the following letter

At the Annual meeting of the Trustees of McGregor Fund careful consideration was given to your letter of April 28 and to a continuation of support of the Tracy W. McGregor Library at the University. I am pleased to report that the Trustees appropriated $12,000 a year for each of the five years commencing July 1, 1958, for accessions to the McGregor Library, and checks will be forthcoming quarterly as in the past, commencing around July 1

In making this five-year appropriation the Trustees expressed their keen satisfaction with the excellent conduct of the Library over the past twenty years. Its capable staff has long had the reputation throughout the country of giving friendly help and cooperation to visiting scholars

We look forward with pleasure to our continuing association with the University of Virginia

The President spoke with great warmth of the work of the McGregor Library and its curators over the past twenty years since its presentation to the University by the Trustees of McGregor Fund of Detroit. The Trustees, Mr. Darden pointed out, had in 1956 generously increased the amount of their annual grants in an effort to offset the effects of inflation and the sharply increased competition for rare Americana

The Rector remarked that it would be superfluous to call for a formal vote on the renewal of the University's annual supplementary grants of $2,500 for additions to the McGregor Library, and the Secretary was accordingly instructed to write to Mr. Wheat and inform him that the University's supplemental appropriations would be continued

President Darden invited the attention of the Visitors to their Resolution of 12 April 1958 creating three special chairs in the School of Law, and directing the President to nominate for these chairs, which would carry special remuneration for the summer months, three professors whose scholarly attainments and promise of future contributions to legal literature and the law teaching profession should especially entitle them to this distinction

In response to nominations by the President, the Board thereupon resolved that the following professors be and they are hereby elected to the three special professorships to bear title as follows

Mr. Frederick Deane Goodwin Ribble, as James Madison Professor of Law, Mr. Hardy Cross Dillard, as James Monroe Professor of Law, and Mr. Charles Oscar Gregory as John Barbee Minor Professor of Law.

President Darden presented the following draft by Mr. C. Venable Minor, University Counsel, for a deed of trust by Mr. Edward S. Handy creating a fund in the University Library for the acquisition, maintenance, cataloguing, and publication of documents relating to achievements in the arts and sciences, as follows

THIS INDENTURE OF TRUST made this 16th day of June, 1958, between EDWARD S. HANDY, (hereinafter called the "Donor"), of the first part, and THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as "The Rector and Visitors"), of the second part,

WHEREAS, the Donor desires to create an irrevocable trust to be named the "Alderman Library Life Histories Documentation Fund of the University of Virginia", to be held by The Rector and Visitors, in trust, for the uses and purposes hereinafter set out, and,

WHEREAS, under the provisions of Section 23-69 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, The Rector and Visitors has the power to accept, execute and administer any trust in which it may have an interest under the terms of the instrument creating the trust, and,

WHEREAS, the Donor, in order to create the trust hereinafter set forth, has requested The Rector and Visitors to accept the property described in "Schedule A" hereto annexed and made a part hereof, (the property described in said "Schedule A" and investments and reinvestments thereof and all additions thereto, if any, being hereinafter called the "principal"), upon the trusts hereinafter set out, and to act as Trustee hereunder, and,

WHEREAS, the prior written consent and approval of the Governor of Virginia, as required by Section 25 of the Appropriations Act of 1956, (Acts of Assembly, 1956 pp 1185-1186), having been first obtained, The Rector and Visitors, as is evidenced by its signature hereto, hereby accepts the property described in "Schedule A" and undertakes to execute and administer the trust upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set out

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the acceptance of the trust by The Rector and Visitors

First. The Donor has assigned, transferred and set over, and does hereby assign, transfer and set over the principal unto The Rector and Visitors. TO HAVE and TO HOLD the same together with any additional property or monies hereafter received (either by inter-vives gift, grant, or by testamentary disposition), IN TRUST, NEVERTHELESS, for the uses and purposes hereinafter set out

(a) The Rector and Visitors shall collect and receive the rents, issues, profits and income therefrom, and after deduction of all proper charges and expenses, the net residue of income derived therefrom (hereinafter referred to as "net annual income"), together with any monies or property delivered to The Rector and Visitors under condition that the principal thereof may or shall be expended for such purposes, (said net annual income and said monies or property being hereinafter collectively referred to as the "annual funds"), shall be used and applied by The Rector and Visitors as follows

(i) To the purchase of documentary materials relating to persons who have been effective in promoting beneficial human achievement in the arts and in science, which materials shall become a part of the collections of the Alderman Library of the University of Virginia,

(ii) To searching out, documenting, collating, describing, indexing and publishing such materials systematically

(b) Said annual funds or so much thereof as may be deemed wise, shall be allocated in the following manner

A committee of three members, composed of the Librarian of the Alderman Library of the University of Virginia, who shall act as Chairman, and two other persons, one of whom shall be conversant with the humanities, the other with the sciences, nominated by the Chairman and appointed annually by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, shall determine with due consideration being given to such statements in writing made from time to time to the Chairman, as the donor or donors care to make, the policies and objectives to be followed to carry out the purposes of this trust as hereinabove set forth and shall certify to The Rector and Visitors the amounts of such annual funds to be allocated for such purposes Upon receiving such certification The Rector and Visitors shall be authorized and empowered to disburse said annual funds in accordance with such certification

Second. Any person, firm, corporation, foundation, or association, including the Donor, may add by grant, will or deed or otherwise to the principal or to the annual funds, at any time or from time to time, property of any kind or nature, whether real, personal or mixed, and wheresoever situate, provided, however, that the same shall be acceptable to and shall be accepted by The Rector and Visitors who, in respect to such acceptability and such acceptance, is hereby given sole and absolute discretion. Upon the receipt and acceptance by The Rector and Visitors of any such property, the same shall be, and be deemed to be a part of the principal to be held in the same trust hereby created, or, a part of the annual funds to be allotted and disbursed in the manner hereinabove set forth, as the case may be

Third. The trust hereby created is, and is hereby declared to be, irrevocable and perpetual

Fourth. The Rector and Visitors shall have the broadest powers in the management, investment and reinvestment of the principal. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it may, for the purposes of investment, combine the investments of the principal with the investments of the Consolidated Funds of the University of Virginia. In such event the Fund, for each fiscal year of the University, shall be entitled, beginning as of the first day of the first full calendar quarter occurring after the date of this Indenture, to its pro-rata share of said Consolidated Funds, and such pro-rata share of the income each fiscal year shall be determined on the same uniform basis as the income of all other Consolidated Funds of the University of Virginia is determined.

Fifth. The trust hereby created shall be subject to, and governed by, the laws of the State of Virginia, and this Trust Indenture, and all the terms, provisions, and conditions hereof are to be interpreted, construed, and applied in accordance with the laws of the State of Virginia

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the Donor has hereunto affixed his signature and seal, and The Rector and Visitors has caused its name to be signed hereto by Vincent Shea, its Comptroller, and its seal to be hereunto affixed and attested by Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., its Secretary, all as of the day and year first above written.

Attached to and made a part of Trust Indenture dated 16 June, 1958, between EDWARD S. HANDY and THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA.

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby acknowledged receipt from Edward S. Handy of the following described property

100 shares Seaboard Airline R.R. Co., common stock,

35 shares Union Carbide Corporation stock,

Policy #6742809 in Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company for $2000.00 on life of Edward S. Handy

to be held as principal of the above fund

There were expressions of warm appreciation for Mr. Handy's generous act to strengthen the Alderman Library's holdings in manuscripts and other documentary sources

The Board resolved that both the Trust Indenture and the appended receipt entitled "Schedule A" be and they are hereby gratefully accepted and approved in form as set forth above, and that the Comptroller of the University be and he is hereby authorized to execute both instruments upon receipt by him of the securities listed in Schedule A

President Darden initiated a discussion of the plan by which the University has been able to increase its mortgage loans to its professors and administrative officers from 60 per cent to 80 per cent by means of a 20 per cent guarantee by the Alumni Board of Trustees. Mr. Darden pointed out that the $50,000 limitation on guarantees by the Alumni Board had now been reached, and the Finance Committee now wishes to have authority from the Board to make loans up to 70 per cent provided the Alumni Board will make an additional commitment for guarantees of 10 per cent, so that loans at 80 per cent can be continued

After general expressions of approval of the plan and of hope that the Alumni Board of Trustees would continue to cooperate and to participate in it, the Board adopted the following resolution

WHEREAS, the Finance Committee of this Board has heretofore been authorized and empowered to make loans to members of the faculty and administrative officers of the University of Virginia, secured as first liens on residences owned by such faculty and staff, not to exceed, however, 60% of the appraised value of such residential properties, and,

WHEREAS, the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund has heretofore adopted the following resolution

"RESOLVED, by the Alumni Board of Trustees that it agrees to guarantee loans on faculty and administrative officers residences up to 20% of the appraised value of such homes, provided no single guarantee exceeds $6000.00, it being understood that this 20% to be in addition to the 60% which the Board of Visitors now lends to staff members, but in no case is the total loan to exceed 80% of the appraised value of the property, the total commitment of the Alumni Board of Trustees at any one time shall not exceed $50,000, nor shall this Board be called upon to provide any funds except in case of default. It is further resolved that in the repayment of these loans, all payments shall first be applied to liquidate that part of the loan underwritten by the Board.", and

WHEREAS, subsequent to the adoption of said resolution by said Alumni Board of Trustees, the Finance Committee of this Board was authorized and empowered to make such loans up to 80% of the appraised value of the security offered, such loans up to 60% of the appraised value of the security being made at the risk of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the balance up to 80% of such appraised value, although made from funds of said The Rector and Visitors, being guaranteed in accordance with said resolution of said Alumni Board of Trustees, and,

WHEREAS, acting under the authority heretofore granted it by this Board, and pursuant to the resolution of the Alumni Board of Trustees herein set forth, the Finance Committee of this Board has made loans and commitments for loans up to but not exceeding 80% of the appraised values of the properties on which said loans are secured as first liens, and,

WHEREAS, the total commitment of the Alumni Board of Trustees has now reached $50,000.00, so that the maximum amount of any loan has had to be reduced to 60% of the appraised value of the security, and,

WHEREAS, the Finance Committee has received and is receiving numerous applications for loans up to 80% of the appraised value of the securities offered, and

WHEREAS, in the opinion of this Board loans to faculty members and administrative officers of the University of Virginia up to 80% of the appraised value of the security offered should not be curtailed but should be continued

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the authorization heretofore granted its Finance Committee to make loans to faculty and administrative officers of the University of Virginia, to be secured as first liens on residences owned by such faculty and staff, be increased from 60% of the appraised value of the security offered to 70% of such appraised value without guarantee, provided, however, such authorization shall not be effective unless and until the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund adopts a resolution, satisfactory in form and substance to the Finance Committee of this Board, guaranteeing, up to a maximum of $50,000, over and above its previous total commitment, an additional 10% of the appraised value of the security offered, to the end that such loans may continue to be made on the basis of 80% of the appraised value of the security offered

RESOLVED FURTHER, that all such loans shall be made upon such terms and conditions and subject to such regulations as the Finance Committee of this Board may, from time to time, see fit to impose and promulgate.

Mr. Fenwick presented a proposal by the Mayor and Council of the Town of Fairfax to purchase and present to the University as a free gift 150 acres of land known as the Farr Tract as a permanent site for the University's Northern Virginia College, which is now being operated in temporary quarters at Bailey's Cross Roads pending construction of the proposed permanent college at Sunset Hills, near Herndon, Virginia

There were expressions of appreciation for the generous offer by the Town of Fairfax. It was pointed out by several Visitors, however, that the Board was no longer free in good faith to consider alternate sites, having firmly committed the University to acceptance of the site offered as a free gift by the Messrs. Bowman. Having taken this action in February, members noted, the Board had subsequently approved a deed of conveyance, as agreed to by attorneys for the University and for the Messrs. Bowman, and on April 12th had instructed the administrative officers of the University to execute the Deed as soon as the Governor should give his approval to the document, as is required by law

It was the consensus of opinion that given these circumstances, the Board could not undertake an exploration of the Fairfax proposal unless the Governor should suggest such a study

Copies of the proposed Budget for 1958-59 having been laid before the Visitors by the Finance Committee, the Comptroller of the University appeared before the Board and presented a Budget Summary, a copy of which was ordered to be filed with these minutes. Mr. Shea pointed out that increases in fees, rentals, and appropriations will more than offset a decline in Endowment income, making the estimated revenues for 1958-59 higher by $1,164,000 than the revenues for the current year. Increased expenditures were proposed for filling vacant and new positions, improved salary scales, expansion of food services, provision for increased enrollments, and operation of the Nuclear Reactor. Mr. Shea estimated total revenues at $10,145,949, and expenditures at $9,982,393, with an anticipated surplus of $163,556

After discussion the Board resolved to approve and adopt the Budget for 1958-59 as presented

Mr. Gray, Chairman of the Finance Committee, introduced to the Board Messrs. L. Burwell Gunn and Donald Willcox, of the State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts, who discussed with the Visitors the investments program of the University's Consolidated Endowment Fund, and presented a 15-page "Report and Summary of University of Virginia Consolidated Endowment Funds", 25 January 1957 to 25 January 1958, a copy of which was ordered to be filed

Mr. McWane reported on behalf of Judge Smith, who was unavoidably absent this morning, that the Committee on the College had met on the evening of June 13th, with Judge Smith presiding, and had considered and approved in detail the matters which would now be presented to the Board by the Chancellor

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College

Mr. Robert Douglas Allsbrook as Assistant Professor of Mathematics for the session 1958-59, at a salary of $5000

Mr. Peter R. Coffin as Assistant Professor of Philosophy for the session 1958-59, at a salary of $5000

Mr. George M. Van Sant as Assistant Professor of Philosophy for the session 1958-59, at a salary of $5000

Mr. George Wilborn Bahlke as Instructor in English for the session 1958-59, at a salary of $4400

Mrs. Catherine Howell Hook as Instructor in Education for the session 1958-59, at a salary of $4400

Miss Vivian Lorraine Munson as Instructor in History for the session 1958-59, at a salary of $4400

Mr. Enrigue Luis Revol (Foreign Exchange Professor under Fulbright Act) as Assistant Professor of Comparative Literature for the session 1958-59, at a salary of $5000

Miss Joan Rae Orloff as Instructor in Art for the session 1958-59, at a salary of $4400

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College, for the session 1958-59

Mrs. Evelyn Mary Eaton as Visiting Professor of English (Part-time) at a salary of $1360

Mr. Jesse Bythwood Jackson as Visiting Professor of Mathematics at a salary of $6800

Dr. W. Schuyler Miller as Visiting Professor of Geology (Part-time) at a salary of $1700

Mrs. Juliette Breffort Blessing as Instructor in French at a salary of $4600

Mrs. Viola P. Butzner as Instructor in Art (one-half time) at a salary of $2300

Miss Mary Gay Calcott as Instructor in English at a salary of $4600

Miss Mildred A. Droste as Instructor in Physical Education at a salary of $5000

Mr. Albert G. Duke as Instructor in Dramatic Arts and Speech at a salary of $5000.

Miss Miriam J. Greenberg as Instructor in Physical Education at a salary of $5000

Mrs. Leatrice Ann Voorhees Grove as Instructor in Psychology at a salary of $4600

Miss Rosemary Herman as Instructor in Spanish at a salary of $5000

Mr. Michael Houston as Instructor in Journalism and Director of Admissions at an annual salary of $5280

Mrs. Myra L. Irby as Instructor in History at a salary of $5000

Mr. H. A. Michael Kirschner as Instructor in Physical Education at a salary of $4800

Miss Katherine F. Moran as Instructor in Dramatic Arts and Speech and Assistant Dean of Students, at an annual salary of $6000

Mr. William Pinschmidt, Jr., as Instructor in Biology at a salary of $5000

Miss Carol Marguerite Pitts as Instructor in English at a salary of $4600

Dr. Russell S. Ratcliffe as Instructor in Education, at a salary of $4800

Miss Carmen L. Rivera as Instructor in Spanish at a salary of $4800

Miss Frances Beveridge Sydnor as Instructor in English at a salary of $5000

Mr. Jack Bruce Thomas as Instructor in Sociology at a salary of $4800

Mrs. Lola Minich Tompkins as Instructor in Economics and Business Administration at a salary of $4600

Miss Eula D. Turner as Instructor in Physical Education at a salary of $4600

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. William Edward Montague as Assistant Professor of Psychology, effective June 1, 1958, be and it is hereby accepted

We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions of members of the faculty of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby made, effective as of September 1, 1958

Mrs. Mildred M. Bolling, Associate Professor and Chairman of the French Department to Professor of French and Chairman of the Department of Modern Foreign Languages, at an annual salary of $6500

Miss Margery E. Arnold, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Health, Physical Education and Recreation, at an annual salary of $5750

Dr. Stanley F. Bulley, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music, at an annual salary of $5750

Miss Mildred Cates, Instructor to Assistant Professor of Home Economics, at an annual salary of $5000

Mr. Sidney H. Mitchell, Instructor to Assistant Professor of English, at an annual salary of $5000

Dr. Mary Jo Parrish, Instructor to Assistant Professor of Biology, at an annual salary of $5000

Mr. W. J. Pitman, Instructor to Assistant Professor of Biology, at an annual salary of $5000

The Chancellor reported that after consultation with Mr. Darden, it has been decided to consolidate the academic work in the several modern foreign languages into one department Persons who previously held separate chairmanships have been so notified of this change in the administrative structure of the College. The purpose of this change is to make possible a more consistent and effective program of instruction in modern languages throughout the College. The former chairman of the French Department has agreed to serve as the new chairman of the Department of Modern Foreign Languages

The Chancellor reported to the Board regarding the status of the indebtedness to the State Treasury which had amounted, at the time of the last meeting of the Board, to $844,606.33. Since the last meeting, the Governor has authorized application of surplus for the 1956-58 biennium to the indebtedness

On May 29, 1958, Mr. Simpson said, the Comptroller informed the College that the surplus at June 30, 1957, in the amount of $205,346.84 had been applied to the debt, leaving a balance of $639,259.49. It is hoped to reduce this amount by $200,000.00 from the surplus at June 30, 1958. You will recall the appropriation of $351,390.00 in the 1958-60 budget. However, before this amount can be applied, the remaining balance of the debt must be paid from funds other than the general fund of the State

Mr. Darden supported Mr. Simpson's proposal for a bond issue or short-term loan to be arranged following application of the 1957-58 surplus to the debt, in order to cover the balance of debt then remaining in excess of $351,000. Mr. Darden estimated this balance as falling in the range of $75,000 to $85,000, and requested the Board's authority to negotiate (with the Governor's approval) a loan for the necessary amount

The Board resolved that the President be and he is hereby authorized to negotiate the loan as proposed

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the administrative officers of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible the old student accounts, for the years 1930-56, in the sum of $9,895.06, found by them to be uncollectible and recommended by them for charging off

Mr. Simpson reported a communication from Governor Almond authorizing holidays as follows

and stating further that:

"If the nature of the services of any agency or institution requires that it be in full operation on certain of the days listed above as holidays and be closed on other days, an alternative schedule providing an equal number of holidays may be authorized by the governing board with the approval of the Governor".

Since Mary Washington College is in session when many of the holidays occur, Mr. Simpson requested that the employees of the College be granted permission to use such holidays at times when the college is not in session, preferably during the period that the College is closed for the Christmas holidays.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Chancellor of Mary Washington College, subject to the approval of the Governor, be and is hereby authorized to permit time off for employees, in lieu of legal holidays not observed at the time of occurrence, during the period that the College is closed for the Christmas holidays.

Copies of the proposed Budget for 1958-59 having been laid before the Board by the Bursar of the College, Mr. Woodward, he and Chancellor Simpson reviewed the highlights. Although total revenues are estimated by Mr. Woodward at $2,090,660, an increase of $53,940, proposed expenditures of $2,086,511 are expected to leave a surplus of only $4,149. Adjustment to the new Faculty salary scale accounts for a large portion of the heavier expenditures, and the increased revenue of $79,000 from higher student fees is offset in part by a $25,000 reduction in State appropriation from the General Fund.

The Board resolved after discussion to approve and adopt the Budget for 1958-59 as presented.

The Rector laid before the Board copies of letters from Mr. Simpson and Mr. Goolrick in which, as he noted, both the Chancellor and the Founder of the College had expressed appreciation for the Board's Resolutions of last April on the occasion of the College's fiftieth anniversary.

The Chancellor presented a memorandum from Mr. Michael Houston, Director of Admissions, showing present admissions of 1482 residential students for the 1958-59 session. This leaves 31 vacancies, Mr. Simpson reported, to be filled by future admissions, with 108 applications for admission still pending.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

I wish to submit herewith my resignation as President of the University, to be effective as soon as the Board has selected a new President and he is prepared to take over the duties of this office

I shall always be grateful for the Board's unfailing kindness and its generous support. I have a deep and warm feeling for the Board members with whom I have worked since coming to the University, and I shall remember with much pleasure an association which has been for me a most happy and interesting one

On May 8 you requested me to find out from the local committee at Wise about what suggestions they had on the location of the auditorium authorized by the Assembly last winter. The committee at Wise has two recommendations first, that Mr. Charles B. McElroy be employed as architect on the gymnasium-auditorium, second, that the gymnasium-auditorium be located on the site between the Coeburn Road and the building now used for faculty apartments (the Old Detention Home)

I am attaching a copy of the Advisory Committee's Resolutions of March 31, 1958. It is my understanding that the Resolutions were presented to you and a carbon sent me

In addition, I am attaching a letter of June 3 in which Mr. Smiddy reports the Advisory Committee reaffirms its position of March 31

I should like to recommend two changes in the present TIAA-CREF annuity program, which should be presented to the Board if you approve.

1 The present maximum basis for determining contributions is $10,000. This figure was set in 1936. I should like to recommend that it be increased to $12,500, the present maximum salary for regular session faculty members. In addition, it might be well to tie the maximum to the maximum session salary so that future increases in the faculty salary scale will be automatically reflected in the annuity program

2 For clinical professors in the Medical School, I should like to recommend the same ceiling apply in so far as compulsory matching is concerned. In addition, should a faculty member wish to contribute 5% of his salary up to a total of $20,000, that such amount be matched from the departmental funds derived from private practice

a

First offense

$5 fine

b

Second offense

$10 fine

c

Third offense

Suspension of driving privileges

The Student Council wishes to submit the following traffic control recommendations for your consideration

1\. The area known as the Dell and the present Engineering School parking lot should be converted into improved parking lots. Chief Houchens of the University Police has approximate figures pertaining to the cost of improving the two lots and to the capacity of the lots

2\. Student parking in the Cabell Hall lot and on the roadway beside the Residence Halls shall be prohibited from 8:30 a. m. to 3:00 p. m. MONDAY through SATURDAY

3\. The present fine system for violations of Student Motor Vehicle Rules and Regulations should be abandoned. The new system should incorporate the following

4\. A student on probation of any kind shall have his driving privileges suspended

5\. Upon registration of a motor vehicle, the applicant must show proof of being able to meet the motor vehicle insurance requirements of the State of Virginia

I would be happy to discuss these recommendations with you at your convenience, if you so desire

I am enclosing a revised copy of the regulations governing use of motor vehicles by students in the undergraduate schools of the University as approved unanimously by the Committee on Undergraduates at its meeting on Friday, May 30, 1958. This meeting was also attended by Miss Tyson from the School of Nursing and Mr. Nichols from the School of Architecture. I strongly recommend adoption of these regulations by the Board of Visitors and propose that they take effect with students entering in September, 1958. I feel that those sections dealing with warning, probation, and conviction of drunken and/or reckless driving should become effective for all undergraduate students in September, 1958

As University Adviser to Students I strongly urge that the stipulations regarding drunken and/or reckless driving should apply to all students in the University. The Committee on Undergraduates is also of this opinion but has no jurisdiction in the matter. I urge that the Board of Visitors consider the advisability of this rule applying to all students

May I call your attention to paragraphs 2 and 3 of my letter of May 20, 1958, regarding my reactions to the recommendations made by the Student Council

The Student Council at its meeting on May 19, 1958, unanimously passed the following motion. To recommend that all students who register cars have compulsory insurance

This has just come to the attention of the Subcommittee of the Committee on Undergraduates. We approve this motion and propose the following be made a part of our previous recommendations

Before any student may register his vehicle he must present the following documents

1 State registration

2 State driver's license

3 Certificate of insurance from a recognized insurance company evidencing coverage for public liability for a minimum of $10,000 and $20,000 bodily injury and $5,000 property damage

4 Statement signed by the student's parent or guardian (if the student is under 21) indicating the parent's or guardian's knowledge and understanding of the regulations at the University of Virginia and granting the student permission to operate a motor vehicle at the University

As you know, Prof. Vyssotsky is retiring this June. Approximately 25 years ago he requested permission from the University to build a home near the observatory. President Newcomb advised him that he would bring the matter to the Board of Visitors and secure a lease for him. Mr. Vyssotsky said that he checked several times with Mr. Carruthers, who was then Secretary of the Board, to see if any action had been taken. He was assured that it would be forth coming and to proceed with the construction of his residence

Mr. Vyssotsky stated further that he was concerned and talked to Mr. Allan Perkins, then University Attorney, about the matter who assured him that if Mr. Newcomb had verbally authorized it not to worry about it. I telephoned Mr. Perkins who does not recall Prof. Vyssotsky discussing the matter with him, although he said he might well have for it is difficult for him to remember conversations which took place 25 years ago

Prof. Vyssotsky would like for the University to purchase his house and Dr. Alden of the observatory would very much like to have it for a residence for Dr. Vyssotsky's replacement

Mr. O'Grince has been over the property and feels that it would probably be worth $15,000. I enclose a letter from Mr. Vyssotsky stating that he has spent $10,000 on the property and, with the present depreciated dollar, it is worth $15,000

If the Board thinks well of purchasing the property, I believe we should have appraisals made as a basis for payment

STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS, DISBURSEMENTS AND BALANCES
-------------------------------------------------

RECEIPTS

Balance June 30, 1957

$4,756.65

Student Fees

1st semester '57-58

10,427.50

2nd semester '57-58

9,793.00

From Jefferson Society (refund)

129.30

From Dance Societies (refund)

1,800.00

From Artist Series (refund)

672.00

Total receipts

$27,578.45

DISBURSEMENTS

Cavalier Daily

$13,714.03

Corks & Curls

3,300.00

Univ. of Virginia Magazine

750.00

Jefferson Society

149.30

Omicron Delta Kappa

40.00

Radio Station WUVA

3,583.45

International Affairs Assoc.

130.00

University Artist Series

1,300.00

National Jazz Fraternity (loan)

750.00

Dance Societies (loan)

3,250.00

$26,966.78

CASH BALANCE ON HAND

$ 611.67

LOANS TO BE REPAID

Dance Societies

1,450.00

National Jazz Fraternity

750.00

$2,200.00

REPORT OF THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES COMMITTEE FOR THE SESSION 1957-58

During the current academic session the Student Activities Committee has met a total of nineteen times. The majority of these meetings was held to consider requests for funds from various student organizations. All budgets and requests were first submitted to the Student Council for investigation and recommendation before being submitted to the Student Activities Committee for action

The committee felt itself charged to provide financial support, upon request, to those student activities which were organized to provide a service to the University as a whole and which could not properly expect departmental support

At the Annual meeting of the Trustees of McGregor Fund careful consideration was given to your letter of April 28 and to a continuation of support of the Tracy W. McGregor Library at the University. I am pleased to report that the Trustees appropriated $12,000 a year for each of the five years commencing July 1, 1958, for accessions to the McGregor Library, and checks will be forthcoming quarterly as in the past, commencing around July 1

In making this five-year appropriation the Trustees expressed their keen satisfaction with the excellent conduct of the Library over the past twenty years. Its capable staff has long had the reputation throughout the country of giving friendly help and cooperation to visiting scholars

We look forward with pleasure to our continuing association with the University of Virginia

I wish to submit herewith my resignation as President of the University, to be effective as soon as the Board has selected a new President and he is prepared to take over the duties of this office

I shall always be grateful for the Board's unfailing kindness and its generous support. I have a deep and warm feeling for the Board members with whom I have worked since coming to the University, and I shall remember with much pleasure an association which has been for me a most happy and interesting one

On May 8 you requested me to find out from the local committee at Wise about what suggestions they had on the location of the auditorium authorized by the Assembly last winter. The committee at Wise has two recommendations first, that Mr. Charles B. McElroy be employed as architect on the gymnasium-auditorium, second, that the gymnasium-auditorium be located on the site between the Coeburn Road and the building now used for faculty apartments (the Old Detention Home)

I am attaching a copy of the Advisory Committee's Resolutions of March 31, 1958. It is my understanding that the Resolutions were presented to you and a carbon sent me

In addition, I am attaching a letter of June 3 in which Mr. Smiddy reports the Advisory Committee reaffirms its position of March 31

I should like to recommend two changes in the present TIAA-CREF annuity program, which should be presented to the Board if you approve.

1 The present maximum basis for determining contributions is $10,000. This figure was set in 1936. I should like to recommend that it be increased to $12,500, the present maximum salary for regular session faculty members. In addition, it might be well to tie the maximum to the maximum session salary so that future increases in the faculty salary scale will be automatically reflected in the annuity program

2 For clinical professors in the Medical School, I should like to recommend the same ceiling apply in so far as compulsory matching is concerned. In addition, should a faculty member wish to contribute 5% of his salary up to a total of $20,000, that such amount be matched from the departmental funds derived from private practice

a

First offense

$5 fine

b

Second offense

$10 fine

c

Third offense

Suspension of driving privileges

The Student Council wishes to submit the following traffic control recommendations for your consideration

1\. The area known as the Dell and the present Engineering School parking lot should be converted into improved parking lots. Chief Houchens of the University Police has approximate figures pertaining to the cost of improving the two lots and to the capacity of the lots

2\. Student parking in the Cabell Hall lot and on the roadway beside the Residence Halls shall be prohibited from 8:30 a. m. to 3:00 p. m. MONDAY through SATURDAY

3\. The present fine system for violations of Student Motor Vehicle Rules and Regulations should be abandoned. The new system should incorporate the following

4\. A student on probation of any kind shall have his driving privileges suspended

5\. Upon registration of a motor vehicle, the applicant must show proof of being able to meet the motor vehicle insurance requirements of the State of Virginia

I would be happy to discuss these recommendations with you at your convenience, if you so desire

I am enclosing a revised copy of the regulations governing use of motor vehicles by students in the undergraduate schools of the University as approved unanimously by the Committee on Undergraduates at its meeting on Friday, May 30, 1958. This meeting was also attended by Miss Tyson from the School of Nursing and Mr. Nichols from the School of Architecture. I strongly recommend adoption of these regulations by the Board of Visitors and propose that they take effect with students entering in September, 1958. I feel that those sections dealing with warning, probation, and conviction of drunken and/or reckless driving should become effective for all undergraduate students in September, 1958

As University Adviser to Students I strongly urge that the stipulations regarding drunken and/or reckless driving should apply to all students in the University. The Committee on Undergraduates is also of this opinion but has no jurisdiction in the matter. I urge that the Board of Visitors consider the advisability of this rule applying to all students

May I call your attention to paragraphs 2 and 3 of my letter of May 20, 1958, regarding my reactions to the recommendations made by the Student Council

The Student Council at its meeting on May 19, 1958, unanimously passed the following motion. To recommend that all students who register cars have compulsory insurance

This has just come to the attention of the Subcommittee of the Committee on Undergraduates. We approve this motion and propose the following be made a part of our previous recommendations

Before any student may register his vehicle he must present the following documents

1 State registration

2 State driver's license

3 Certificate of insurance from a recognized insurance company evidencing coverage for public liability for a minimum of $10,000 and $20,000 bodily injury and $5,000 property damage

4 Statement signed by the student's parent or guardian (if the student is under 21) indicating the parent's or guardian's knowledge and understanding of the regulations at the University of Virginia and granting the student permission to operate a motor vehicle at the University

As you know, Prof. Vyssotsky is retiring this June. Approximately 25 years ago he requested permission from the University to build a home near the observatory. President Newcomb advised him that he would bring the matter to the Board of Visitors and secure a lease for him. Mr. Vyssotsky said that he checked several times with Mr. Carruthers, who was then Secretary of the Board, to see if any action had been taken. He was assured that it would be forth coming and to proceed with the construction of his residence

Mr. Vyssotsky stated further that he was concerned and talked to Mr. Allan Perkins, then University Attorney, about the matter who assured him that if Mr. Newcomb had verbally authorized it not to worry about it. I telephoned Mr. Perkins who does not recall Prof. Vyssotsky discussing the matter with him, although he said he might well have for it is difficult for him to remember conversations which took place 25 years ago

Prof. Vyssotsky would like for the University to purchase his house and Dr. Alden of the observatory would very much like to have it for a residence for Dr. Vyssotsky's replacement

Mr. O'Grince has been over the property and feels that it would probably be worth $15,000. I enclose a letter from Mr. Vyssotsky stating that he has spent $10,000 on the property and, with the present depreciated dollar, it is worth $15,000

If the Board thinks well of purchasing the property, I believe we should have appraisals made as a basis for payment

STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS, DISBURSEMENTS AND BALANCES
-------------------------------------------------

RECEIPTS

Balance June 30, 1957

$4,756.65

Student Fees

1st semester '57-58

10,427.50

2nd semester '57-58

9,793.00

From Jefferson Society (refund)

129.30

From Dance Societies (refund)

1,800.00

From Artist Series (refund)

672.00

Total receipts

$27,578.45

DISBURSEMENTS

Cavalier Daily

$13,714.03

Corks & Curls

3,300.00

Univ. of Virginia Magazine

750.00

Jefferson Society

149.30

Omicron Delta Kappa

40.00

Radio Station WUVA

3,583.45

International Affairs Assoc.

130.00

University Artist Series

1,300.00

National Jazz Fraternity (loan)

750.00

Dance Societies (loan)

3,250.00

$26,966.78

CASH BALANCE ON HAND

$ 611.67

LOANS TO BE REPAID

Dance Societies

1,450.00

National Jazz Fraternity

750.00

$2,200.00

REPORT OF THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES COMMITTEE FOR THE SESSION 1957-58

During the current academic session the Student Activities Committee has met a total of nineteen times. The majority of these meetings was held to consider requests for funds from various student organizations. All budgets and requests were first submitted to the Student Council for investigation and recommendation before being submitted to the Student Activities Committee for action

The committee felt itself charged to provide financial support, upon request, to those student activities which were organized to provide a service to the University as a whole and which could not properly expect departmental support

At the Annual meeting of the Trustees of McGregor Fund careful consideration was given to your letter of April 28 and to a continuation of support of the Tracy W. McGregor Library at the University. I am pleased to report that the Trustees appropriated $12,000 a year for each of the five years commencing July 1, 1958, for accessions to the McGregor Library, and checks will be forthcoming quarterly as in the past, commencing around July 1

In making this five-year appropriation the Trustees expressed their keen satisfaction with the excellent conduct of the Library over the past twenty years. Its capable staff has long had the reputation throughout the country of giving friendly help and cooperation to visiting scholars

We look forward with pleasure to our continuing association with the University of Virginia