 TEI to HTML

MEETING DATES FOR 1959GIFTS AND GRANTSELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTELECTION OF DR. VYSSOTSKY AS PROFESSOR EMERITUSRESIGNATIONRE-ELECTIONSPROMOTIONSUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSUSE OF THOMAS H. BAYLY MEMORIAL BUILDINGTUITION INCREASENORTHERN VIRGINIA BRANCH COLLEGE SITECHANGE IN NAME OF ARBORETUMFACULTY HOUSING LOANSGIFT OF BUST OF PRESIDENT MONROESALE OF RUCKER ESTATE PROPERTYPHI DELTA THETA FRATERNITY HOUSE SITESTUDENT COUNCIL STATEMENTVACATING OF MONROE HOUSEGIFT OF CABELL PAPERSSEVEN SOCIETY GIFT OF NEWCOMB MEMORIALRENOVATION OF THE COMMONS BUILDINGSALE OF COAL ON PURKEY TRACT - CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEJAG BUILDING AND LAW SCHOOL ADDITIONCOMMITTEE ON NOMINATION OF A PRESIDENTCONCERN OF GOVERNOR OVER RECENT EVENTSMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSDEATH OF EMIL R. SCHNELLOCKDONATION OF PAINTING BY SOL WILSONTEMPORARY LOAN FROM THE STATE TREASURYCHANGE IN FEESNATURAL GAS CONTRACT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mr. G. T. Minnigerode, to be added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Laboratory Fund

$ 1,500.00

From Mr. E. F. Conger, to be added to the Hematology Research Fund

500.00

From Mr. Forrest Hyde, for the Samuel Baker Woods Scholarship

250.00

From Mr. Edward S. Handy, to be added to the Alderman Library Life Histories Documentation Fund

300.00

From E. I. duPont deNemours and Company, to the Department of Physics for research in high polymar physics

3,000.00

From Mr. John L. Pratt, to the Department of Biology, securities valued at (NO PUBLICITY)

535,275.00

From the Virginia-Carolina Chemical Corporation, for a fellowship in chemistry for the 1958-59 session

1,800.00

From the Cerebral Palsy Association, for the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

600.00

From Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., for the Frank Spindler Memorial Scholarship

3,000.00

From Mr. John D. Gordon, to be added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Cancer Fund

100.00

From Dr. June Shafer, to be added to the D. C. Smith Memorial Fund

100.00

From Western Electric Company, for a scholarship in the Engineering School

475.00

From the Virginia High School League, to be added to the University Scholarship Funds

150.00

From the American Medical Association, a grant-in-aid for research under the direction of Dr. Ian Stevenson, of the Department of Psychiatry

250.00

From the Alumni Board of Trustees, to be used for the Piedmont Faculty Housing Project

25,000.00

From the American Medical Association, a grant-in-aid for research under the direction of Dr. G. A. Williams, of the Medical School

300.00

From the Albemarle Tuberculosis Association, for research under the direction of Dr. Quentin N. Myrvik, of the Medical School

500.00

From Mr. Norborne Berkeley, to be added to the Hospital's cancer memorial fund

100.00

From an anonymous donor, in support of the Bibliographical Society

650.00

From the Babcock and Wilcox Company, to be applied to engineering and technical education

600.00

From General Motors Corporation, for a graduate fellowship in chemistry for the 1958-59 session

1,700.00

From the University League, for two graduate fellowships in drama for the 1958-59 session

1,600.00

From the following sources in support of the Skid Prevention Conference held in the summer of 1958:

National Crushed Stone Association

500.00

Automotive Safety Foundation

3,000.00

Asphalt Institute

500.00

Bureau of Public Roads

3,000.00

Truck-Trailer Manufacturer's Association

100.00

Portland Cement Association

500.00

From the University Hospital Auxiliary, to be used for the Hospital

765.00

From the Student Aid Foundation, balance due on athletic grants-in-aid for the 1957-58 session

29,412.27

From the Alumni Association, for athletic grants-in-aid for the 1957-58 session

3,750.00

From the National Science Foundation, for continuation of the Academic Year Institute Program under the direction of Dr. James Cole

260,000.00

From the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, for research under the direction of Dr. W. A. Volk, of the Department of Microbiology

1,250.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for continued research under the direction of Dr. G. H. Miller and Dr. R. A. Lowry, in the Department of Physics

22,000.00

From the Department of the Navy, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Dr. Stephan Berko

$ 5,767.84

Dr. W. R. Sandusky

10,000.00

Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

55,000.00

Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

35,000.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Dr. J. L. Guerrant

4,715.00

Dr. R. G. Kindred

10,250.00

Dr. E. D. Brand

8,625.00

State Appropriation - 1956-58

$192,500

State Appropriation - 1958-60

84,700

$277,200

To be derived from bond issue - (temporary loan from the State Treasurer until bonds are issued)

226,800

Total

$504,000

Virginians

Non-Virginians

Tuition fee

None

$182.50

General college fees

$170.00

170.00

Library fee

10.00

10.00

Laundry charge

10.00

10.00

Infirmary fee

3.00

3.00

Student activity and miscellaneous fee

10.50

10.50

Board

157.50

157.50

Furnished room

76.50

76.50

Total per semester

$437.50

$620.00

Total per session

$875.00

$1240.00

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 10:00 A. M. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present. The Rector Frank Talbott, Jr., President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., and Visitors Berkeley, Bryan, Coxe, Fenwick, Gray, Greear, Hartfield, Jones, Lantor, McWane, Martin, Montague, Pollock, and Smith. Absent: Visitors Paschall and Wheeler. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson and Bursar Edgar E. Woodward of Mary Washington College were present throughout the consideration of College matters.

The minutes of the meeting of 11 October 1958, previously distributed, were approved.

The Board set the following regular meeting dates for the year 1959. (1) 14 February, (2) 11 April (Fredericksburg), (3) 13 June, (4) 10 October, and (5) 12 December

The President reported the following gifts and grants:

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Dr. Joseph Coxe as Lecturer in Psychiatry, as of 1 December 1958, at no salary from the University.

Dr. Stanley Temple as Instructor in Biochemistry, as of 1 January 1959. He is a research fellow in the Cancer Research Laboratory, and the Instructorship in Biochemistry will involve no change in his current salary arrangements.

Dr. Jack Hain as Instructor in Clinical Psychology in the Department of Neurology and Psychiatry, as of 1 December 1958, at a salary of $8,000, to be paid from the National Institute of Health grant.

Mrs. Lois B. Tracy as Instructor in Art at Clinch Valley College, for the second semester of the 1958-59 session, at a salary of $2,200.

Dr. Julian I. Kitay as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, as of 1 July 1959, at an annual salary of $10,000, of which $6,000 is to come from salary previously designated for Dr. Crispell, and the remainder to come from the Diabetes Teaching Grant, which was also designated for Dr. Crispell.

Dr. H. Stuart Bacon as Part-time Instructor in Psychology at Clinch Valley College for the first semester of the 1958-59 session at a salary of $490.00.

Mr. John M. Caywood as Part-time Instructor in Education and Remedial Mathematics at Clinch Valley College for the first semester of the 1958-59 session, at a salary of $700.00

Mr. Grover P. Salyer as Part-time Instructor in Typing at Clinch Valley College for the first semester of the 1958-59 session at a salary of $350.00.

Mr. Alexandre Kafka as Associate Professor of Economics, for three years, as of September 1959, at a session salary of $8,000.

Dr. Jerrold E. Hammond as Clinical Instructor in Psychiatry, effective 1 December 1958, at a salary of $2,000 a year from a training grant. The State has provided for his salary as Director of the Children's Service Center.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. David A. Mullon be and he is hereby appointed Assistant Professor of Medicine, effective as of 1 January 1959. Dr. Mullon is to be an Associate Physician in the Department of Student Health and his salary is to come entirely from that source.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Alexander Nicholas Vyssotsky, former Professor of Astronomy, be and he is hereby elected Professor Emeritus. Dr. Vyssotsky served on the staff of the University from 1923 to the date of his retirement, June 1958.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Gilles O. Allard, Assistant Professor of Geology, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1958-59. Dr. Allard is leaving to take a position in Brazil.

We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby re-elected

Dr. Stephen Francis Barker, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for three years, as of September 1959

Dr. Cecil Hougie, Assistant Professor of Clinical Pathology, for three years, as of September 1958

Mrs. Carolyne Khuri, Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for the session of 1958-59

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made

Mr. John E. Moes, Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, to Assistant Professor of Economics for three years, as of September 1958.

Mr. David H. Davis, Acting Assistant Professor of Music, to Assistant Professor of Music for three years, as of September 1958

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 792, 796, 797, 800, 803, 804, 806, 809, and 810, aggregating $109,933.49, as recommended by it

Dr. Martin, Chairman of the Medical Committee, stated the desire of the Committee to obtain information if possible as to two types of claims under these uncollectible accounts. The Committee would like to know which of these accounts are welfare cases and therefore a charge against the localities, and which are truly uncollectible accounts for other reasons. The Board instructed the President to investigate the feasibility of presenting the reports on these uncollectible accounts under these two headings

The President commented on a recent communication he had received from the Dean of the School of Architecture recommending changes in the use of certain space in the Bayly Memorial Building. The changes were proposed in view of the fact that the Museum was not used as much as had been anticipated and that, therefore, there was some excess space which could be used for instructional purposes by the School of Architecture. Under this arrangement there would be no injury to the building in any way. The Rector inquired if there were any objections by members of the Board and no objections were raised

The President reported for the information of the Board on the negotiations he had had with the Governor relating to a proposed increase in tuition which was to be used entirely for increasing faculty salaries. The Governor had informed the President that a legislative commission was at work on the subject and that he would prefer no action on the matter until the commission had reported. The President stated that he would follow through on this development and inform the Board as soon as action was indicated

The Rector summarized the current situation with respect to the selection of a permanent site for the Northern Virginia Branch College. He noted that since the approval of the Farr Site by the Board at its meeting on 11 October 1958, the governing bodies of the counties of Arlington and Fairfax and the cities of Alexandria and Falls Church had given their approval to the Farr Site. He noted also that the action of each of these four governing bodies was unanimous with the exception of the Fairfax County Board of County Supervisors where one dissenting vote was cast. The Rector pointed out that the Town of Fairfax proposed to buy the 150-acre Farr Site for $300,000 and give it to the University, and has also agreed to provide water and sewer trunk lines to the property at no cost to the University

After discussion, the Board instructed the President to notify the Governor of the proposed gift of the Farr Site by the Town of Fairfax and to ask for his wishes in the matter.

Mr. Fenwick, noting that charges had been made that his father-in-law owned property in the area of the Farr Site, requested that the record show his abstention from voting on this matter

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the name of the Orland E. White Arboretum at the Blandy Farm be and it is hereby changed to "The Orland E. White Research Arboretum."

The President noted the receipt from the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund of an agreement to place an additional $50,000 in the Fund used to guarantee loans on faculty housing under certain terms and conditions. Under the terms of this agreement, the Alumni Board of Trustees agrees to guarantee loans on faculty and administrative officers residences up to 10 per cent of the appraised value of such homes provided no single guarantee exceeds $3,000, that this additional 10 per cent is to be in addition to the 70 per cent which the Board of Visitors has agreed to lend the staff members but that in no case is the total loan to exceed 80 per cent of the appraised value of the property, that the total commitment of the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund at any one time shall not exceed $100,000, that the Alumni Board of Trustees shall not be called upon to provide any funds except in case of default, and that in the repayment of these loans, all payments shall first be applied to liquidate that part of the loan underwritten by the Alumni Board of Trustees. The Board expressed its appreciation to the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund for its generosity in providing this additional underwriting of $50,000

The President brought to the attention of the Board the offer by Mrs. Jennings C. Wise to the University of a bust of President Monroe in honor of the bicentennial of his birth. After expressions of thanks by individual Visitors for the generosity of Mrs. Wise, the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the offer by Mrs. Jennings C. Wise to the University of a bust of President Monroe in honor of the bicentennial of his birth be and it is hereby gratefully accepted

Re Sale of Walton Property on East Jefferson Street, Charlottesville, Virginia

The President explained that Mrs. Savannah Worsham Walton died on 19 Nevember 1957, testate, and seised of a lot of land with improvements consisting of her residence, situated on the north side of E. Jefferson Street in Charlottesville, Virginia, and by the third clause of her will dated 21 June 1946, probated 22 November 1957 and spread in the Corporation Court Clerk's Office of Charlottesville in W. B. 8 p. 117, she had directed that "the rest and residue of my estate, both real and personal, and wheresoever situate, be delivered in fee simple to William James Rucker Home For Convalescent Children of Charlottesville, Virginia."

Legal title, the President pointed out, to property used for the Convalescent Home is vested in and held by The Rector and Visitors, and that the Governor, pursuant to the requirements of Section 25 of the General Appropriations Act of 1956, had given his written consent and approval to the acceptance of the gift by The Rector and Visitors.

As the property was not suitable itself for the uses of the Convalescent Home it had been deemed wise to sell it and make use of the proceeds. The property had therefore been sold, subject to the approval of the Board and of the Governor, to a Mrs. Lucy B. Barrett for $9,000.00, of which $200.00 is to be paid in cash on delivery of deed and the balance of $8,800.00 is to be evidenced by a bond for that amount, bearing interest at the rate of 5½% per annum, repayable in monthly instalments of $100.00 each, to be applied first to interest and then to principal, and to be secured as deferred purchase money by a first lien deed of trust on the property to be conveyed and on other property belonging to the purchaser.

The President then submitted to the Board for its consideration a draft of the deed conveying the property in question to Lucy B. Barrett, with special warranty of title, which draft had been prepared by C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel for The Rector and Visitors, and drafts of the bond for deferred purchase money and of the deed of trust securing the same, which drafts had been approved by Mr. Minor

The Board was reminded that the conveyance, under the provisions of Section 23-77.1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, must receive the approval of the Governor, and it was pointed out that the deed as drafted provided for his signature thereto as evidence of such approval

After discussion, upon motion duly made and seconded, it was

RESOLVED, by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the conveyance to Lucy B. Barrett of the house and lot fronting 50 feet on the north side of E. Jefferson Street in Charlottesville, Virginia, being the property devised to it under the will of Savannah Worsham Walton, deceased, dated 21 June 1946, probated 22 November 1957, and of record in the Clerk's Office of the Corporation Court of the City of Charlottesville, Virginia, in W. B. 8 p. 117, at the price of $9,000.00, paid and secured to be paid as hereinabove in these minutes set out, be and the same is hereby sanctioned and approved, and that the drafts of said deferred purchase money bond and of the deed of trust securing the same, be and they are hereby sanctioned and approved,

RESOLVED, further, that the President and Secretary be, and they hereby are, authorized, empowered and directed, the approval of the Governor of the State of Virginia, as required by Section 23-77.1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, having first been obtained thereto, to execute, on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a deed, substantially in the form of the draft submitted to this meeting, conveying said property with Special Warranty of Title, to Lucy B. Barrett, and that the President be, and he is hereby, authorized, empowered and directed to deliver said deed to said Lucy B. Barrett or her authorized representative

The president submitted to the Board an application by the Phi Delta Theta Social Fraternity for a site on University property on which to build a new house. He stated that the application had been approved by the Committee on Fraternities at its meeting on 4 December 1958. The President noted that the University Long Range Planning Committee in its report to him had recommended that fraternity sites be made available along Route 29 at Copeley Hill. Since that time, however, the question of the location of a field house on Copeley Hill had been raised and a study of this matter was under way. The President had therefore written to the Phi Delta Theta Fraternity that until the site for a field house is chosen and the number of acres needed is determined, no action could be taken on a final location for the fraternity house. After discussion, the President was authorized to seek a suitable site not in conflict with the field house development for the Phi Delta Theta house and to make a final determination before the next meeting of the Board of Visitors if emergency action was required

At their request, and with the concurrence of President Darden, who excused himself during their appearance, three members of the Student Council appeared before the Board. These students were Fred Alexander, President of the Student Council, and Kendrick Dure and Jack Lewis, members of the Student Council. These Student Council members presented a general statement touching on what they considered to be a low state of morale in the student body. Following the statement, there were questions by the Board and discussion. The session was concluded with a statement by the Rector that the Student Council could submit their views in written and more specific form at a later date if desired

No action was taken by the Board since nothing was presented on which action was required

The President brought to the attention of the Board the vacating of the Monroe House by Professor W. A. Nelson. The Secretary was instructed to present the matter to the Committee on Buildings and Grounds for the preparation of a recommendation to the Board as to the successor of Professor Nelson.

The President recalled to the attention of the Board the gift a year ago by Mr. Robert G. Cabell, III, of Richmond of 39 manuscripts of his brother, the late James Branch Cabell. Mr. Cabell now desires to make an additional gift of 42 manuscripts, being Part II, Nos. 40 through 81 on the appraisal listing of John S. Van E. Kohn covered by Receipt No. 5618-c from the Alderman Library

With expressions of thanks from several members of the Board, the following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the offer of 42 manuscripts by James Branch Cabell made by his brother, Robert G. Cabell, III, be and it is hereby gratefully accepted.

The President announced the receipt of a communication from The Seven Society proposing the gift of a plaque for placement in Newcomb Hall honoring the late John Lloyd Newcomb, second President of the University of Virginia. The communication was accompanied by a proposed wording for the plaque with the understanding, however, that the wording could be changed in any way deemed necessary so long as the general context of the wording was retained.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to accept from The Seven Society a plaque to be placed in Newcomb Hall honoring the late John Lloyd Newcomb, second President of the University.

With the removal of the dining facilities from the Commons to Newcomb Hall, the President reported that the vacant space was available for other uses. Architects had made a study of the building and reported that it was in good shape. A tentative decision has been made to locate the offices of the Bursar and the Registrar in the Commons Building and to reserve the basement for the possible use of a central computing section which is under study. The President was authorized to obtain estimates of the costs involved in renovating the building and to begin the preparation of working drawings in the event that the estimates seemed to him to be reasonable

Mr. Greear reported that a coal company had indicated to him a desire to enter into a contract to strip the coal off three to four acres of the Purkey tract at Clinch Valley College on land which had been donated by local residents. The acreage is in one corner of the tract and the agreement would call for the covering of the land after the stripping in order that no permanent damage would result. The President was authorized to proceed to negotiate a contract for the sale of the coal with the approval of Mr. C. Venable Minor, General Counsel of the University

The President recalled to the attention of the Board the comment he had made at the Board meeting on 11 October 1958 about a proposed addition to the Law School which would serve the expanded needs of the Law School and at the same time permit the continuation of the JAG School at the University. Further negotiations with the Governor had been successful in that the Governor had consented to the construction of the addition to the Law School to be financed out of rental income received from the Army for the space in Clark Hall and the JAG Building. The President also reported that he was now engaged in negotiating a five-year renewal of the lease on the JAG Building.

The Rector reported that the Committee on Nomination of a President had continued its work but had no recommendations to make at this time. He was unable to say at this time whether or not the Committee would be prepared to report to the Board at its meeting in February.

Mr. Smith noted that he had recently received a letter from the Governor expressing his concern over recent events concerning the student body at the University. With the written consent of the Governor, Mr. Smith read the Governor's letter to the Board in which the Governor expressed his grave concern over recent occurrences and noted the many accomplishments that had been made during the administration of President Darden. A copy of the Governor's letter was ordered to be filed in the records of the Board

Chancellor Simpson announced to the Board the death of Mr. Emil R. Schnellock, Associate Professor of Art, on 18 November. Mr. Schnellock had served on the faculty since 1938. Mr. Schnellock was devoted to the College and his murals in George Washington, Trinkle, and Monroe Halls are but a part of his lasting contribution to the College.

There were expressions of the affection and esteem in which Mr. Schnellock was held, and the Secretary was directed to record in the permanent minutes the deep sense of loss felt by the Board, and the gratitude of the Visitors for his devoted and valuable services to Mary Washington College.

The Chancellor announced that the National Academy of Design of New York City had offered to the College a painting, "Shopping District," by Sol Wilson

After discussion, the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to enter into an agreement to accept from the National Academy of Design a painting, "Shopping District," by Sol Wilson, purchased from the Henry W. Ranger Fund, and the College agrees to hold same subject to, and to abide by the terms stated in, the will of the late Henry W. Ranger, which reads as follows

"All pictures so purchased are to be given by the Council to art institutions in America, or to any library or other institutions in America maintaining a gallery open to the public, all such gifts to be upon the express condition that the National Collection of Fine Arts at Washington, administered by the Smithsonian Institute (Institution) shall have the option and right, without cost, to take, reclaim and own any picture for their collection, provided they exercise such option and right at any time during the five year period beginning ten years after the artist's death and ending fifteen years after his death, and if such option is not exercised during such period, the picture shall remain and be the property of the institution to which it was first given.\* \*"If at any future time the institution to which a picture is assigned should not wish to retain it, the picture should be returned to the National Academy for reassignment, thus assuring its public representation." The words \`America' and \`American' shall be construed as equivalent to \`North America' and \`North American' respectively.

"If at any future time the institution to which a picture is assigned should not wish to retain it, the picture should be returned to the National Academy for reassignment, thus assuring its public representation."

At the meeting of the Board of Visitors held on 14 December 1957, the College was authorized to award contracts, subject to the approval of the Governor, for the construction of a dormitory, the cost of which, including equipment, would not exceed $504,000.

The proposed method of financing the building and equipment is shown as follows

The Chancellor stated that it was deemed unwise to issue bonds until it could be determined accurately the exact funds needed. The State Treasurer has permitted the College to operate on a cash basis, thus avoiding obtaining a temporary loan until the cash on hand was not adequate to meet current requirements. The College is now holding a voucher due the contractor in the amount of approximately $54,000, which, if entered for payment, would exceed the College's cash balance.

The Chancellor recommended that the College be authorized to obtain a temporary loan from the State Treasurer in the amount of $226,800 which would provide sufficient funds to complete the construction of the building and the purchase of equipment.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to borrow from the State Treasurer, at his prevailing rate of interest, the sum of $226,800, for the purpose of providing sufficient funds to complete the construction and purchase of equipment for the new dormitory, the overall construction and equipment cost not to exceed $504,000.

The Chancellor noted that in many courses of study offered by the College a laboratory fee is charged. This practice has been followed in many courses whether or not there is a required laboratory period as the term is commonly understood. Most colleges today have eliminated this type of laboratory fee and have retained only a laboratory fee for courses of instruction in applied music. This change was made by the University of Virginia several years ago.

The Chancellor requested that the College be granted permission to eliminate all laboratory fees with the exception of the fees charged for instruction in applied music. He further recommended that the diploma fee of $12 also be eliminated. In lieu of these charges, the Chancellor proposed an increase in the General College Fee to all students of $10 per semester in order to compensate for the loss of revenue resulting from the elimination of the laboratory fees and diploma fees.

The Chancellor also noted that there is a different room rent charge for students housed in Betty Lewis, Cornell, and Trench Hill dormitories. The charge for students in these dormitories is $63 per semester in contrast with the charge to students in all other dormitores of $76.50 per semester. The Chancellor proposed that the room rent for all students be $76.50 per semester. This change would facilitate materially the advance billing prior to students' enrollment at the beginning of the school year, and would also eliminate multiple adjustments to students' accounts due to students being transferred from one location to another.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to set student fees and expenses for the school year beginning September 1959 as follows

The Chancellor recounted the troubles the College had been experiencing with respect to its heating plant. The College heating plant, since it is located on the West side of College Avenue across from the College grounds, is in a residential section known as "College Heights." Ever since the heating plant has been in operation, the College has been besieged with complaints from the residents of this area because of the soot and fly ash from the heating plant. Two years ago the College invested approximately $45,000 in the purchase of a fly ash collector and ash handling equipment. The installation of this equipment has reduced the nuisance factor to some extent, but it has not corrected the condition and the College is still receiving complaints resulting from fly ash and soot damage caused by the heating plant. As a member of the community, the College strongly feels an obligation to the residents of the community to eliminate this nuisance factor if it is possible and practical to do so.

The College has been approached by the Natural Gas Service Company, which has a franchise with the City of Fredericksburg. The company wishes to know if the College would be interested in using natural gas if natural gas is brought to the Fredericksburg area. The rate proposed by this company on an interrupted basis would cost the College for fuel approximately the same as coal. The College has had two studies made comparing the cost of coal and the cost of gas at the rate proposed by the company. These studies show that natural gas on an interrupted basis would come within $200 of the cost of coal.

The College has also been having difficulty in the dining hall in obtaining sufficient gas pressure from the City's manufactured gas for the preparation of food. The use of natural gas, which is much cleaner, would provide many other advantages in the operation of the dining hall. The Chancellor also pointed out that, in his opinion, the use of natural gas would permit the College to eliminate one employee in the heating plant and reduce the expense further in connection with the maintenance of a heating plant.

Some expense would be involved in converting the boilers in the central heating plant to receive natural gas. It is estimated that this expense would be approximately $10,000, with the initial cost to be borne by the gas company. The College would repay the gas company on a monthly basis until the entire cost is amortized.

After discussion, the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to enter into a contract or agreement with the Natural Gas Service Company to supply the Central Heating Plant of the College with natural gas on an interrupted basis for providing heat to various buildings.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.