 TEI to HTML

ELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTSPROMOTIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCESPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONCLASSIFICATION OF A VIRGINIA STUDENTTUITION INCREASE IN SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURERESTORATION OF EAST LAWN GARDENSSITE STUDY OF COPELEY HILLBUILDING TO HOUSE ACCELERATORGRANT BY CARNEGIE CORPORATIONCOMPUTER CENTERCARR'S HILLUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSUNIVERSITY BIENNIAL BUDGETMARRIED STUDENT HOUSING AND DORMITORIESHONOR SYSTEMREPORT ON UNIVERSITY CONSOLIDATED ENDOWMENT FUNDCHANGES IN THE PLAN OF UNIVERSITY ORGANIZATIONMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONCOLGATE W. DARDEN, JR. ACADEMIC AWARDNEW FACULTY SALARY SCALEFINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO STUDENTSNATURAL GAS CONTRACTBIENNIAL BUDGET REQUESTBELMONT PROPERTYNAME OF C O'CONOR GOOLRICKSALARY OF CHANCELLORGIFTS AND GRANTSCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSCLINCH VALLEY FACULTY HOUSING BOND ISSUERESOLUTION RATIFYING A NOTE IN THE PRINCIPAL SUM OF $150,000.00 COVERING TEMPORARY FINANCING OF PROJECT NO. VA. 44-CH-9(D)RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING EXECUTION OF AMENDATORY LOAN AGREEMENTRESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF ONE HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS ($150,000) PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE FACULTY HOUSING BONDS OF 1958 OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, FIXING THE FORM AND OTHER DETAILS, SECURING THE PAYMENT AND PROVIDING FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE HOLDERS THEREOF.ARTICLE IDEFINITIONSARTICLE IIAUTHORIZATION AND ISSUANCE OF BONDSARTICLE IIIREDEMPTION AND PREPAYMENTA. Redemption of Coupon Bonds.B. Prepayment of Registered Bonds.ARTICLE IVCREATION OF FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS AND PAYMENTS THEREFROMARTICLE VPLEDGES AND COVENANTS OF THE BOARDARTICLE VIREMEDIESARTICLE VIIAMENDMENTS AND MODIFICATIONSARTICLE VIIIFORMS OF BONDS(FORM OF COUPON BOND)UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STATE OF VIRGINIARECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE FACULTY HOUSING BOND OF 1958(FORM OF REGISTERED BOND)UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STATE OF VIRGINIARECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE FACULTY HOUSING BOND OF 1958PAYMENT RECORDPAYMENT RECORDPrincipal installments on which payments have been made prior to maturityARTICLE IXDISCHARGE AND DEFEASANCEARTICLE XMISCELLANEOUSELECTIONAPPOINTMENTSACTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bad debt, etc.

$ 9,338.48

Free Service to Counties & Cities

54,192.79

$ 63,531.27

The total charged off during the year 1959

Bad debts, etc.

$121,742.49

Free Service to Counties & Cities

345,948.42

$467,690.91

Fieldhouse

$1,000,000

George Mason College

1,050,000

Alderman Library

500,000

University Hospital

1,000,000

Electric Power Distribution System

120,000

$3,670,000

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

Instructor

4450

4700

4950

5200

Assistant Professor

5250

5500

5750

6000

6250

Associate Professor

5850

6175

6500

6825

7150

7475

Professor

7050

7400

7750

8100

8450

8800

9150

Name

Nine Months Session

Present

Proposed

Emory, Samuel T.

$4,400

$4,700

Johnson, Thomas

4,400

4,700

Petersen, David O.

4,400

4,700

Rivas, Josefa

4,400

4,700

Original Request

Governor Recom.

Revised Approp. Request

Capital Outlay Increase

Educational Items

Library books

$56,000

$20,000

$40,000

$20,000

Language Laboratories

15,000

\-0-

15,000

15,000

Science Laboratory

Equipment

75,000

\-0-

20,000

20,000

$55,000

Non-Academic

Roads and Walkways

20,000

\-0-

20,000

20,000

TOTAL

$75,000

From Mr. C. Waller Barrett, to Alderman Library, the Richard Harding Davis material, valued at

$ 10,600

From Mrs. G. C. Westervelt, to Alderman Library, books and manuscripts, valued at

1,825

From Mr. Lorraine Pitman, to Alderman Library, 179 volumes valued at

771

From Prof. Wilbur Nelson, to Alderman Library, a collection of geological materials, valued at

2,928

From Mrs. Jacques Rappaport, to Alderman Library, books and science magazines, valued at

136

From Prof. Jacques Rappaport, to Alderman Library, scientific journals, valued at

583

From an anonymous donor, to Alderman Library for the purchase of books in memory of Dan and Kate Norton

1,000

From Mr. Langbourne M. Williams, to be added to the John Langbourne Williams Memorial Fund, securities valued at

2,533

From an anonymous donor, to be added to the Peters Rushton Seminar Fund

1,000

From an anonymous donor, to the Medical School to be added to the House Staff Fellowship Fund

2,400

From Mr. John S. Williams, to Alderman Library, 232 volumes, valued at

$ 636

From Mrs. Walter Page, to Alderman Library, C. & O. Railway Directories and Charlottesville Directories, including the first Charlottesville City Directory for 1888-89, valued at

250

From Mr. George S. Coyle, to Alderman Library, books and periodicals, valued at

612

From Mr. Archibald J. Edge, to the University Hospital for the use of the Department of Urology

1,000

From Mr. R. J. Stockham, to the Medical School to be added to the Mulholland Chair of Medicine Fund

1,000

From an anonymous donor, to establish a loan fund for the Graduate School of Business Administration, cash and securities valued at

72,000

From an anonymous donor, to be used for the Virginia Quarterly Review, securities valued at

38,700

From Mrs. E. C. Paddock, to Alderman Library for the purchase of books in memory of Dan and Kate Norton

911

From Prof. A. B. Shepperson, to Alderman Library, 178 volumes valued at

240

From Prof. Francis Duke, to Alderman Library, a collection of French Gothic novels, valued at

100

From Mrs. Walter O. Klingman, to Alderman Library, 210 volumes valued at

122

From Mrs. Walter O. Klingman and Mr. C. Venable Minor, 91 volumes from the Minor family collection, valued at

110

From Mr. F. D. G. Ribble, to be added to the Frank Howard Lahey Memorial Fund

200

From Dr. John T. Bate, to the Medical School to be added to the Bate Audio-Visual Fund

200

From Mr. Edward G. Cale, an unrestricted gift

100

From the estate of the late George M. Charlton, to the Medical School for research in Neurology and Deafness

53,800

From Mr. Ralph P. Johnson, an unrestricted gift, securities valued at

2,962

From Grace M. Keane, to be added to the Children's Rehabilitation Center Equipment Fund

358

From sundry persons, to the School of Architecture to establish the William D. Darden Memorial Scholarship fund

5,500

From Mrs. Doris K. Neale, to be added to the Doris K. Neale Fellowship Fund

1,000

From Col. J. M. Hartfield, to the Student Aid Foundation for athletic grants-in-aid

2,000

From the Hospital Auxiliary, to be used for the Hospital

2,250

From the Hospital Auxiliary, to the School of Nursing to be added to the scholarship fund

500

From Mrs. Garrard Glenn, to be added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Fund

300

From the estate of the late Dr. John F. Anderson, to be added to the John F. Anderson Memorial Lectures Fund

5,000

From the estate of the late Berkeley Minor, Jr., to be added to the unrestricted endowment funds

2,000

From Dr. Albert del Castillo, to the Hospital to be added to the Margaret F. Boggess Fund, securities valued at

1,326

From the Helis Foundation, to supplement the salary of a distinguished professor in physics for five years at $2,000 per year

10,000

From the Charles E. and Joy C. Pettinos Foundation, to be added to the Samuel Forrest Hyde Memorial Fellowship Fund

3,500

From Mrs. J. C. Metcalf, to be added to the Metcalf Memorial Fund

100

From the Danville Cancer Association, to the Hospital to be used for cancer research

500

From General Motors Corporation, four fellowships for the 1959-1960 session

5,300

From the School of Consumer Banking, for the McIntire School of Commerce

1,000

From Inez Schmitt, to be added to the Harrison M. Robertson Cancer Fund

100

From the Charlottesville and Albemarle Cerebral Palsy Association, to the Hospital for the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

2,327

From the United Cerebral Palsy Association of Virginia, to the Hospital for the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

5,000

From Friendship Fund, Inc., to the Department of Biochemistry to be used to help defray expenses of Dr. Alfred Chanutin's trip to Russia

1,000

From the Ford Foundation, a fellowship for Prof. James Buchanan, Department of Economics, for a 12-month period beginning 1 September 1959

13,919

From the American Management Association, for research on management consulting under the direction of Prof. C. L. Quittmeyer, McIntire School of Commerce

500

From Westinghouse Corporation, to the Engineering School, equipment valued at

1,000

From National Science Foundation, for research under the direction of Dr. J. W. Cole, Extension Division

93,300

From National Science Foundation, for research under the direction of Dr. B. E. Frye, Department of Biology

3,421

From Parke, Davis and Company, for research under the direction of Dr. C. M. Kunin, School of Medicine

3,000

From U. S. Army Ordnance, for research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau, Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences

14,882

From U. S. Army Ordnance, for continued research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau, Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences

15,000

From the Air Force Office of Scientific Research, for continued research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau, Department of Physics

20,000

From the Department of the Air Force, for continued research under the direction of Dr. G. T. Whyburn, Department of Mathematics

23,927

From U. S. Department of State, grant-in-aid for Uruguay - Student Leader Seminar in field of Law

28,590

From the Department of the Navy, for continued research under the direction of Dr. S. Berko, Department of Physics

5,956

From the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for continued research under the direction of Dr. C. L. Gemmill, School of Medicine

8,089

Years

Annual Amount

1960 to 1965, inclusive

$2,000

1966 to 1977, inclusive

3,000

1978 to 1986, inclusive

4,000

1987 to 1992, inclusive

5,000

1993 to 1998, inclusive

6,000

If Redeemed

Redemption Price (Percentage of Principal Amount Paid)

On or after May 1, 1969 to and including November 1, 1973

103.00%

Thereafter to and including November 1, 1978

102.50%

Thereafter to and including November 1, 1983

102.00%

Thereafter to and including November 1, 1988

101.50%

Thereafter at

101.00%

If Prepaid

Prepayment Price (Percentage of Principal Amount Paid)

On or after May 1, 1969 to and including November 1, 1973

103.00%

Thereafter to and including November 1, 1978

102.50%

Thereafter to and including November 1, 1983

102.00%

Thereafter to and including November 1, 1988

101.50%

Thereafter at

101.00%

If Redeemed

Redemption Price (Percentage of Principal amount Paid)

On or after May 1, 1969 to and including November 1, 1973

103.00%

Thereafter to and including November 1, 1978

102.50%

Thereafter to and including November 1, 1983

102.00%

Thereafter to and including November 1, 1988

101.50%

Thereafter at

101.00%

Year

Principal Amount

If Prepaid

Prepayment Price (Percentage of Principal Amount Paid)

On or after May 1, 1969 to and including November 1, 1973

103.00%

Thereafter to and including November 1, 1978

102.50%

Thereafter to and including November 1, 1983

102.00%

Thereafter to and including November 1, 1988

101.50%

Thereafter at

101.00%

Due Date

Principal Payment

Principal Balance Due

Interest Payment (   %)

Date Paid

Name of Paying Agent Authorized Official and Title

Principal Due

Principal Payment

Balance

Date Paid

Name of Paying Agent Authorized Official and Title

Date

Amount

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 9:30 A. M. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present. The Rector, Frank Talbott, Jr., President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors Berkeley, Blanton, Bryan, Coxe, Fenwick, Greear, Jones, Lantor, Martin, McWane, Montague, Pollock, Smith, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Hartfield and Paschall. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson and Bursar Edgar E. Woodward of Mary Washington College were also present throughout the discussion of the Mary Washington College matters, with one exception. Visitors-Elect William M. Camp, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., and Hunter Faulconer were present as observers.

The minutes of the meeting of 12 December 1959, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Dr. Anne F. Hunter as Lecturer in Preventive Medicine, for the period 1 March 1960 through 30 June 1961, at no salary from the University.

Miss Lillian Johnson as Lecturer in Nursing, for one year, as of the beginning of the second semester of the session of 1959-1960, at a salary of $10 per hour or approximately $300 per semester.

Mr. Stephen Manning as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, as of 1 September 1960.

Mr. Peter C. Manson as Professor of Law, as of 1 September 1960, with half of his salary to be paid by the Virginia Bar Association.

Dr. Seymour Rosenberg as Lecturer in Psychiatry, for one year, as of 1 March 1960, at no salary from the University.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby re-elected

Miss Zula Mae Baber as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, as of 1 September 1960.

Mrs. Virginia H. Edwards as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, as of 1 June 1960.

Mrs. Madeline Fuchs as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, as of 1 September 1960.

Mr. Joseph E. Gibson as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three years, as of 1 February 1960.

Mrs. Betty H. Igel as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, as of 21 September 1960.

Mrs. Ann B. Kayan as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, as of 1 March 1960.

Mrs. Marjorie Key as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, as of 1 June 1960.

Mrs. Carol Lowicki as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, as of 1 August 1960.

Mrs. Josephine Ludewig as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, as of 1 July 1960.

Mrs. Mary Margaret McCamic as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, as of 1 May 1960

Miss Jacqueline Mears as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, as of 1 September 1960.

Miss Annie Laurie Wyant as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, as of 1 September 1960, at a salary of $5,720.

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, the President announced the following appointment

Major Edward E. Camporini as Associate Professor of Naval Science, effective in July 1960, at no salary from the University.

The President announced the following appointment

Mr. William S. Weedon, Professor of Philosophy, as Chairman of the Corcoran Department of Philosophy, for a second five-year term, as of 1 September 1960.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made

Mr. Pierre E. Conner, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, to Associate Professor of Mathematics, as of 1 September 1960, at a salary of $8,800.

Miss Suzanne Lowry, Instructor in Nursing, to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, as of 1 September 1960.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leaves of absence

Mr. Stephen F. Barker, Associate Professor of Philosophy, for the 1960-1961 session, without pay, to serve as Visiting Professor at Swarthmore College.

Mrs. Vera Ray Brand, Instructor in Nursing, for the session of 1960-1961, without pay, to enroll in the Master's Program in Education at the University of Virginia.

Mr. Francis Duke, Associate Professor of Romance Languages, for the session of 1960-1961, without pay, to do research in France.

Mr. Rowland Egger, Professor of Political Science, for the second semester of the session of 1960-1961, without pay, to serve as Visiting Professor of Government at Harvard University.

Mr. William D. Hedges, Assistant Professor of Education, for the session of 1960-1961, without pay, to continue work in Korea with the International Cooperation Administration.

Miss Delore Koontz, Instructor in Nursing, for the session of 1960-1961, without pay, to enroll in the Master's Program in Maternity Nursing at Teachers College of Columbia University.

Mrs. Betty Norris, Instructor in Nursing, for the session of 1960-1961, without pay, to complete her work for a B. S. degree in Nursing.

Miss Margaret G. Tyson, Dean, School of Nursing, from 1 August 1960 to 15 August 1960, to attend the Summer Session at Teachers College to further her work towards a doctoral degree in Administration of Schools of Nursing.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members shall receive the salaries indicated

Mr. Edwin E. Floyd, Professor of Mathematics, at a salary of $12,600, as of 1 September 1960.

Mr. Robert W. McGilvery, Associate Professor of Biochemistry, at a salary of $11,400, of which $9,900 is to be paid by the State and the remainder from the National Fund for Medical Education, as of 1 March 1960.

Mr. Charles L. Quittmeyer, Associate Professor of Commerce, at a salary of $8,800 of which $8,300 is to be paid by the State and the remainder from the McIntire Fund, as of 16 March 1960.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of the following faculty member be and it is hereby accepted:

Mr. Sears Jayne, Professor of English, as of 30 June 1960, to accept a position with the Claremont Graduate School in California.

We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

Gen. Montague, Chairman of a Special Committee appointed by the Rector at the meeting on 14 February 1959 to review the existing definition of the Virginia student for tuition purposes, reported that the revised definition of a Virginia student adopted by action of the Board on 11 April 1959 had proved to be satisfactory and recommended that the Special Committee be discharged.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the rules governing the determination of student domicile for tuition purposes as adopted on 10 December 1954, and as amended on 11 April 1959, remain in full force and effect, and that the Special Committee appointed by the Rector on 14 February 1959 to study the determination of student domicile for tuition purposes be discharged

The President stated that the tuition charge for first-year Virginia students in the School of Architecture had for some years been set at the same rate as for Virginia students in the College, namely $270 per year. The Dean of the School of Architecture had recommended that the tuition charge for first-year Virginia students be increased to $320 which would provide a uniform rate for the five years of the Architectural curriculum. This change would make the practice in the School of Architecture conform to that now prevailing in the School of Engineering. The President asked for approval of the Dean's recommendation.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition charge for first-year Virginia students in the School of Architecture be and it is hereby increased from $270 per year to $320 per year, effective as of 1 September 1960.

The President reported that the Board of Directors of the Garden Club of Virginia had approved the restoration of the East Lawn Gardens as the next project for the club. The project would not become official, however, until it had been approved at the annual meeting of the Garden Club in May. He stated that, following the expected approval of the project, he would submit detailed plans to the Buildings and Grounds Committee and the Board for approval.

The President stated that, in view of the planned development of the Copeley Hill site, including the erection of a fieldhouse and married student housing, a site study of the area was needed. He reported that the firm of Anderson, Beckwith and Haible had prepared an excellent site study for George Mason College and he requested authorization by the Board for the employment of the same firm for the site study of Copeley Hill.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to employ the firm of Anderson, Beckwith and Haible to make a site study at Copeley Hill at a cost not exceeding $7,500.

The President stated that the next step in the development of the University's research program in physics was the acquisition of an accelerator. In order that an application might be made to the Atomic Energy Commission, it was necessary for the University to commit itself to the construction of a building to house the accelerator.

Visitor Pollock explained that the original plan, when the Physics Building was constructed, was to house the accelerator in that building. Subsequent experience had indicated, however, that it was much better to house the accelerator outside the Physics Building. He pointed out also that a separate location would make the accelerator more available to other schools of the University which might collaborate on research involving the use of this equipment. In answer to a question by Visitor Bryan, the President stated that the plan calls for the erection of the building for the accelerator in the general area where the Atomic Reactor is now under construction.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to allocate $100,000 from unappropriated surplus for the construction of a tower for a 5.5 Mcv Van de Graaff Accelerator as the first step in applying to the Atomic Energy Commission for a grant of $1,075,000 to purchase the above-named Accelerator.

The President reported on a grant by the Carnegie Corporation of New York in the amount of $75,000 to the Southern Regional Education Board for a training program for persons specializing in the education of gifted children. The Southern Regional Education Board had selected the University of Virginia to conduct the training program. He stated that this was a great tribute to the School of Education and especially to Professor Virgil Ward of that school, who will direct the training program.

The President reported on the current status of a proposal by Remington-Rand UNIVAC to establish a computer center and a training school at the University which the Board had authorized him to accept at its meeting on 12 December 1959. He had received a letter from the Southern Regional Manager's Office of Remington-Rand UNIVAC notifying him that the decision as to location had been postponed until late 1960 or early 1961. The President stated he had notified the Southern Regional Manager that the University would have to withdraw its proposal and re-negotiate closer to the time when the decision was expected.

The President further reported, however, that he had received an inquiry from the Director of Training of Remington-Rand UNIVAC concerning the possibility of locating a training school at the University, which would provide the same equipment as the previous proposal, for training career people in the service of Remington-Rand UNIVAC. He stated that he would explore this proposal with the Company and report back to the Board at its April meeting.

The Rector reported that he had inspected the renovation of Carr's Hill on the previous day and was very impressed with the improvements that had been made. This was the first time the building had been renovated completely since its construction over a half century ago. He pointed out, however, that a number of difficulties had arisen especially with respect to the plastering in the large rooms on the first floor. Earlier in the week he had been called by the Comptroller who reported the difficulty and stated that an additional sum of $750 was needed to make the necessary corrections. The Rector requested that his approval of the expenditure of an additional $750 be approved by the Board.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the sum of $750, in addition to the amounts approved by the Board at its meeting on 7 October 1959, be authorized for expenditure for the renovation of the President's House at Carr's Hill.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 894, 895, 898, 899, 902 and 903, aggregating $63,531.27, as recommended by it, consisting of the following

The President reported that he had appeared before the joint hearing of the House Appropriations Committee and Senate Finance Committee with respect to the capital outlay portions of the University budget. He had asked the Committees to restore the following items

He had also written a letter to the Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee and the Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee requesting restorations, in the amount of $607,760, in the maintenance and operation portion of the University's Biennial Budget

The President reported that, at the request of the University, two bills had been introduced in the General Assembly which would authorize the University to borrow money from the United States Government to finance the construction of married student housing and additional dormitories.

The President stated that a recent editorial in The Cavalier Daily might give the members of the Board the mistaken impression that the Honor System was in jeopardy. On the contrary, he reported that the Honor Committee and especially its Chairman, Mr. Jake Crosley, had worked very hard in orienting the first-year students as to the procedure as well as the substance of the Honor Code and that he felt very gratified at this expression of student interest in the preservation of the Honor System. He stated that it was his intention to continue to maintain a close relationship with the Honor Committee in the preservation of this cherished University institution.

The Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. McWane, reported that he had received a communication from the State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts asking the Board's wishes as to the time of the annual report on the University of Virginia Consolidated Endowment Fund. After discussion, the following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that (1) the President be authorized to designate either the April or the June meeting in 1960 for the next annual report of the State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts on the University of Virginia Consolidated Endowment Fund, and (2) beginning in February 1961, the annual report be given at the February meeting of the Board.

The President reported on the results of his studies of needed alterations in the plan of organization of the University. He had given this matter first priority since assuming office, and was now prepared to report his proposal to the Board for criticism and suggestions. The major changes which he proposed to make were three in number: (1) the creation of the position of "Chancellor for the Branch Colleges" and the discontinuance of the office of Provost, (2) the creation of an Office of Admissions to be headed by a Dean of Admissions who would be responsible for supervising all admissions to the undergraduate schools of the University, and for the administration of student aid as it affects undergraduates entering the University, and (3) the creation of the position of "Assistant to the President for University Relations amd Development" with primary responsibilities for general supervision of the public relations programs of the University, the dissemination of public information, and the coordination of contacts by University personnel with foundations and businesses for grants and other types of financial support. The position of Chancellor for the Branch Colleges, the President explained, would be concerned with the administration of Clinch Valley College and George Mason College. There would be no change in the status of the Chancellor of Mary Washington College, who would continue to report to the President.

The remaining alterations of consequence, the President explained, are (1) provision that the Director of Athletics report to the President, (2) re-institution of the President's direct responsibility for relations between the University and the Alumni, (3) combination of all matters relating to students under the Dean of the University, and (4) a change in the title of Assistant to the President to "Administrative Assistant to the President."

The Rector stated that he had consulted with the President on two occasions concerning the plans for changes in the University plan of organization and believed that these changes were needed and would enable the President more effectively to discharge the duties of his office. He emphasized in his comment the need for greater attention to both the fields of public relations and public information.

A discussion followed during which no objections to the President's plan of organization were heard.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty

Miss Myra Rigor as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for the second semester of the session of 1959-1960, as of 1 February 1960, at a salary of $2,200 for the semester.

The Chancellor reported that the College had received an anonymous donation of $1,500 to be used to finance the artist's drawing of the medallion and the cost of having the die made for the Colgate W. Darden, Jr. Academic Award. The College, he stated, was most grateful for this expression of support.

The Chancellor recalled that the Board, at its meeting on 13 June 1959, had approved a new faculty salary scale at the College to become effective on 1 September 1960. At that time, he did not believe that the College would have sufficient funds to adopt the scale approved by the Governor for the session of 1959-1960. Accordingly, he requested permission to present the matter at a later time should it develop that funds would be available to make this new salary scale effective at a date earlier than 1 September 1960. He reported that sufficient funds were now available for this purpose but that it was necessary to put the salary scale into effect prior to the present meeting of the Board. Accordingly, he had received approval from the President and the Rector to adopt the new salary scale on an interim basis subject to action by the Board.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty salary scale for Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, effective as of 1 February 1960, be and it is hereby approved

The Chancellor reported that, under the new salary scale to become effective on 1 February 1960, four instructors on the faculty would receive an increase of only $25 for the second semester. He requested, therefore, that these four instructors be granted a one-step increase which would permit them to receive a salary increase of $150 for the second semester of the session of 1959-1960.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia be and it is hereby authorized to increase the salary of four members of its faculty, effective 1 February 1960, as shown below

The Chancellor presented a report on the financial assistance extended to students enrolled in the College for the session of 1959-1960. He stated that the total assistance for the nine-months session amounted to $164,927.50. The Secretary was instructed to include the detailed report in the files of the Board.

The Chancellor reported that the College was still waiting for the Natural Gas Service Company to provide certain information regarding its financial status and drawings and specifications as to the proposed method of installing natural gas in the boilers now in use at the College. When this information has been received, the Chancellor stated that he would transmit a report to the Rector who has been authorized by the Board to approve the proposal before the College could enter into a contractual agreement with the Natural Gas Service Company.

The Chancellor reported that he had appeared before the joint hearing of the House Appropriations Committee and Senate Finance Committee of the General Assembly and had asked for increases over the Governor's Budget in capital outlay requests in the following amounts

The Chancellor stated that the bill which had been introduced in the General Assembly requesting a transfer of the trusteeship of the Belmont property from the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts to The Rector and Visitors on behalf of Mary Washington College had received the approval of both houses of the General Assembly and was now on the Governor's desk. The President stated that he had received a communication from the Governor's Office asking for his views on the bill to which he had given an affirmative answer. Following the expected signature of the Governor, the Chancellor asserted that it would be necessary to file a suit in the Circuit Court of the City of Richmond.

The Chairman of the Mary Washington College Committee, Mr. Greear, presented a resolution which would call for the reservation of the name "C. O'Conor Goolrick" for the contemplated building at Mary Washington College to be used for health and physical education purposes. Mr. Greear stated that Mr. Goolrick, more than any one other individual, was responsible for the existence of the College. After several Visitors had expressed their pleasure with respect to the proposed action, the following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the name "C. O'Conor Goolrick" be reserved for the contemplated Mary Washington College Health and Physical Education Building, and, be it further resolved, that we recommend to our successors in office, the adoption of the name "C. O'Conor Goolrick" for the Mary Washington College Health and Physical Education Building in partial recognition of the many outstanding services rendered Mary Washington College by this distinguished Virginia.

After Messrs. Simpson and Woodward had left the room, the Chairman of the Mary Washington College Committee, Mr. Greear, stated the belief of the Committee that the salary of the Chancellor of Mary Washington College should be increased. After discussion, the Board agreed that the President, with the assistance of the Committee, should move immediately on this proposal.

The President reported the following gifts and grants

The President reported that the arrangements for the Clinch Valley Faculty Housing bond issue in the sum of One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000.00) were now nearing completion. He noted that under authority granted by resolution of the Board adopted 7 June 1957, Mr. Darden, on behalf of and in the name of The Rector and Visitors, had entered into a Loan Agreement dated as of 1 April 1957, with the United States of America in connection with the erection of faculty housing units at Clinch Valley College, designated as Project No. Va. 44-CH-9(D).

In connection with the matter, the President submitted to the Board three resolutions pertaining to financing this project, the first two of which were prepared by Mr. C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel to the University, and the third prepared by Messrs. Wood, King, Dawson and Logan, Bond Counsel to the University

(1) Resolution ratifying a note in the principal sum of $150,000 covering temporary financing of Project No. Va. 44-CH-9(D),

(2) Resolution authorizing execution of an Amendatory Loan Agreement,

(3) Resolution authorizing the issuance of One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000.00) principal amount of Clinch Valley College Faculty Housing Bonds of 1958 of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, fixing the form and other details, securing the payment and providing for the rights of the holders thereof.

Each of the above resolutions was considered by the Board in the order listed.

(1) the Board unanimously adopted, on motion of Mr. Smith, duly seconded, the following resolution

WHEREAS, pending the issuance of bonds not in excess of $150,000.00 contemplated in the Loan Agreement dated as of April 1, 1957, between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (hereinafter called the "Board") and the United States of America, to defray cost of erection of Faculty Housing at the Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia, designated in said Loan Agreement as Project No. Va. 44-CH-9(D), it became necessary to obtain temporary financing to defray construction costs in connection with the erection of such Faculty Housing, and,

WHEREAS, to cover such temporary financing, on April 30, 1958, the Governor of Virginia authorized the Board to borrow a sum not to exceed $150,000.00 on such terms and from such sources as might be approved by the Treasurer of Virginia, and,

WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of said authorization dated April 30, 1958, on or about May 12, 1958, Colgate W. Darden, Jr., then President of the University of Virginia, executed in the name and on behalf of the Board a note, subsequently delivered to the Treasurer of Virginia, in the principal sum of $150,000.00, dated May 12, 1958, and more particularly described below, and,

WHEREAS, the Board has not heretofore formally authorized the execution and delivery of said note, and it is now deemed desirable to do so,

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board, in regular meeting assembled, does hereby approve, ratify and confirm (a)- the execution of said note dated May 12, 1958, by Colgate W. Darden, Jr., then President of the University of Virginia, in the name and on behalf of the Board, and (b)- the delivery of said note to the Treasurer of Virginia. Said note is more particularly described by the language contained therein, to-wit

"The Board of Visitors, University of Virginia promises to repay into the State Treasury the sum of $150,000.00 with interest at the rate of one per centum per annum from May 12, 1958 until paid, upon completion of the faculty houses, which has been borrowed from current funds in the State Treasury under authority granted by the Governor April 30, 1958.

This loan is made pursuant to the provisions of Section 40 and 41, Chapter 716 of the Acts of 1956, and the source approved by the Attorney General in a letter to the Governor under date of April 27, 1944."

(2) The Board unanimously adopted, on motion of Mr. Martin, duly seconded, the following resolution

WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a public educational institution, organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, (Herein called the "Borrower"), has heretofore entered into a certain Loan Agreement dated as of April 1, 1957, (Herein called the "Loan Agreement") with the United States of America, acting by and through the Housing and Home Finance Administrator (Herein called the "Government"), with respect to a loan to the Borrower under Title IV of the Housing Act of 1950, as amended, and

WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested that certain revisions be made in the said Loan Agreement, and the Government has pursuant thereto submitted to the Borrower a certain Amendatory Loan Agreement dated as of December 1, 1959, (Herein called the "Amendatory Loan Agreement"), for approval and execution by the Borrower, which said Amendatory Loan Agreement is satisfactory,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY said The Board of Visitors of the Borrower that subject to the approval of the Honorable J. Lindsay Almond, Jr., Governor of Virginia, the said Amendatory Loan Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto, be and the same is hereby approved. The President, Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., is hereby authorized and directed to execute the said Amendatory Loan Agreement in the name and on behalf of the Borrower, in as many counterparts as may be necessary, and the Secretary, Weldon Cooper, is hereby authorized and directed to affix or impress the official seal of the Borrower thereon and to attest the same, After approval by said Governor of Virginia as aforesaid, the proper officer is directed to forward the said executed counterparts of the said Amendatory Loan Agreement to the Government, together with such other documents evidencing the approval and authorization to execute the same as may be required by the Government.

(3) The Board unanimously adopted, on motion of Mr. Blanton, duly seconded, the following resolution

WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (hereinafter called the "Board") has heretofore duly authorized the organization of a two-year college program at Clinch Valley College (hereinafter called the "College"), located in Wise, Virginia, the establishment of which College as a division of the University of Virginia (hereinafter called the "University") under the supervision, management, and control of the Board, has been duly authorized, ratified, validated, and confirmed by Chapter 60 of the Acts of Assembly of the Extra Session of 1959, and,

WHEREAS, the said College has been duly and regularly organized and established and constitutes a division of the University under the administration, management, and control of the Board, and,

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it is required by and convenient for the purposes of the University to construct, and has authorized the construction of, certain buildings and improvements at the College consisting of six single faculty dwellings and a four-unit apartment building, each with necessary appurtenant facilities to house ten faculty families (hereinafter, collectively, called the "Project"), and,

WHEREAS, in order to finance the cost of the Project, the Board deems it necessary and advisable to issue and sell its bonds for such purpose pursuant to Chapter 3, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and,

WHEREAS, the Board has heretofore on the 27th day of January, 1958, entered into a Loan Agreement dated as of April 1, 1957, with the United States of America, acting by and through the Housing and Home Finance Administrator (hereinafter called the "Government"), whereby the Government, subject to the provisions of said Loan Agreement and the Terms and Conditions attached thereto and made a part thereof agreed to purchase the bonds therein described, provided such bonds were not otherwise sold at public sale to other bidders, and,

WHEREAS, the Governor of the State of Virginia has approved the Loan Agreement and the issuance of the bonds therein authorized, and,

WHEREAS, certain revisions to the Loan Agreement are set forth in an Amendatory Loan Agreement dated as of December 1, 1959, and subject to approval by the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, the Board has approved of the Amendatory Loan Agreement and has authorized its President to execute the same with the Government.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

SECTION 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined in this Article shall, for all purposes of this Resolution, and of any resolution supplemental hereto, have the meanings herein specified, and the following definitions shall be equally applicable both to the singular and plural forms of any of the terms herein defined, to-wit

"Administrator" shall mean the Administrator of the Housing and Home Finance Agency of the United States of America, or his successor, or such person as may be duly authorized to act in said capacity.

"Bond", or "Bonds" shall mean any Bond, or all of the Bonds, as the case may be, issued, executed and delivered under this Resolution, whether in coupon form or in fully registered form.

"Bondholders", "Holders of the Bonds", or "Holders", or other words and phrases having similar import, shall mean and shall include any person who shall be the bearer of any outstanding Coupon Bond registered to bearer or not registered, or the registered owner of any outstanding Coupon Bond which at the time shall be registered other than to bearer, or the registered owner of a fully Registered Bond or the properly qualified legal representative of such registered owner.

"Costs of the Development of the Project" shall mean cost of necessary architectural or engineering services, the cost of construction work to the Project site, the cost of providing the necessary fixed equipment, legal, administrative and clerical costs, cost of land acquisition, necessary travel expenses, the Government Audit and Inspection Cost and interest during construction, the cost of issuing the Bonds, including printing, engraving, advertising, legal and other similar expenses, all as approved by the Administrator

"Coupon Bond" or "Coupon Bonds" shall mean any one or more of the Bonds with coupons for interest appertaining thereto authorized to be issued hereunder, in the denomination of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) each, in the aggregate principal amount of One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000), numbered serially from M1 to M150, inclusive, registrable as to principal only, and in the form hereinafter set forth.

"Current Expenses Budget" shall mean the Budget provided for in Article IV hereof

"Current Expenses of the Project" shall mean the cost and expenses of the operation and maintenance of the Project during each Fiscal Year, including only the reasonable and necessary operating expenses, current maintenance charges, reasonable expenses of upkeep, repairs and replacements, a properly allocated share of charges for insurance and all other direct expenses incident to the operation of the Project, including water for all Project buildings and heat for the apartment building only, but shall exclude electricity, depreciation, all general administrative expenses of the Board and any payments into the Building Maintenance and Equipment Reserve Account created and established pursuant to Article IV hereof.

"Fiscal Year" shall mean the year annually beginning July 1 and ending the following June 30.

"Gross Revenues" shall mean all rentals, charges, fees, income, revenues, receipts and profits derived by the Board directly or indirectly from the operation or ownership of the Project. Gross Revenues derived directly or indirectly from the ownership and operation of the Project shall be those determined to be such either by this Resolution or in any other resolutions of the Board approved by the Governor, but shall exclude all funds received or receivable from the State of Virginia. Proceeds received by the Board directly or indirectly from the sale, lease, rental or other disposition of the Project, or any portion thereof, are hereby determined by the Board to be derived directly or inindirectly from the Project, excluding therefrom all funds received or receivable from the State of Virginia.

"Paid by the State Treasury" or "payment by the State Treasurer" or "Payable by the State Treasurer" or other words and phrases having similar import, shall mean either payment directly by the State Treasurer in the manner provided by Section 23-21 of Title 23 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, or by and through the Treasury Board where so provided by statute or in such other manner as may hereafter be provided by applicable statutes.

"Paying Agent" shall mean any paying agent for the Bonds and shall include the Treasury Board of Virginia, as so designated by Section 23-19 of Title 23 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, or such other person, bureau or department as may hereafter by statute be designated as Paying Agent, and The Chase Manhattan Bank, in the Borough of Manhattan, City and State of New York.

"Project" shall mean the six single family dwelling and a four-unit apartment building, each with necessary appurtenant facilities, housing ten faculty families at the College, which it is hereby determined are required by and convenient for the purposes of the University.

"Registered Bond" shall mean a Bond or Bonds fully registered as to principal and interest authorized to be issued hereunder in lieu of serial Coupon Bonds, payable in installments and in the form hereinafter set forth.

"Resolution" shall mean this Resolution and all resolutions supplemental hereto.

"Required Value" shall mean at least $15,000, face value of marketable direct obligations of the United States of America or market value of negotiable securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange.

"State" shall mean the Commonwealth of Virginia.

"State Treasurer" shall mean the Treasurer of the State of Virginia

"Treasury Board" shall mean the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

SECTION 2.01. Pursuant to the authority contained in Chapter 3, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and pursuant to the Loan Agreement, there are hereby authorized to be issued One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000) principal amount of "Clinch Valley College Faculty Housing Bonds of 1958" of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, to finance the Costs of the Development of the Project. Except as provided in Section 2.02 hereof, said Bonds shall be Coupon Bonds in the denomination of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) each, numbered from M1 to M150, inclusive, registrable as to principal only, dated November 1, 1958, and shall mature serially in numerical order on November 1 in each of the years and in the amounts as follows

Said Coupon Bonds shall bear such rate or rates of interest, payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year, as shall be hereafter determined by the Treasury Board upon the sale of the Bonds, pursuant to the provisions of Section 10.04 hereof.

Principal of, the premiums, if any, and the interest on the said Coupon Bonds shall be payable at the principal office of the Treasury Board of the State of Virginia, Richmond, Virginia, or, at the option of the Holder, at The Chase Manhattan Bank, in the Borough of Manhattan, City and State of New York, in any coin or currency which, on the respective dates of payment of such principal, interest and redemption premium, if any, is legal tender for the payment of debts due the United States of America.

SECTION 2.02. In the event that the Government shall purchase all or any part of the Bonds, the Board, at the option of the Government, or at the option of other purchasers, if any, shall issue, through the Treasury Board, in lieu of Coupon Bonds, Registered Bonds with face values in the amount of the respective purchases. Such Registered Bonds shall be numbered from R1 upwards, and shall be dated November 1, 1958. Interest upon the principal amount of said Registered Bonds, or upon the balance of the said principal amount from time to time remaining unpaid, shall be payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year at such rate or rates as shall hereafter be determined by the Treasury Board upon the sale of the Bonds pursuant to the provisions of Section 10.04 hereof.

The Principal of, or any installment of the principal of, Registered Bonds, the premium thereon, if any, and the interest thereon shall be payable at such place and in such manner as shall be directed by the purchaser. Such payments, except the final payment, shall be made by the Board through the Treasury Board without presentation or surrender of the Registered Bond to any Paying Agent, but such payment shall be noted upon the Registered Bond by the owner thereof, or by any other authorized designee of the owner, on the Payment Record attached to and made a part of the said Registered Bond, provided, however, that if the owner of a Registered Bond originally issued pursuant to the preceding paragraph shall assign the same, the assignee shall surrender same to the Treasury Board either for exchange for a new Registered Bond in the unpaid principal amount of the Registered Bond, or for a verification of the payments noted upon the said Payment Record, and thereafter all payments of principal, premiums, if any, and interest on such Registered Bond shall be made only upon the surrender thereof to the Treasury Board for the notation of said payments upon the said Payment Record.

Before any Registered Bond shall be issued pursuant to this Section 2.02, evidence of the non-liability of the Board for payment of accrued interest for the period prior to the interest payment date next preceding the date of delivery of the Registered Bond shall be noted by the Treasury Board upon the Payment Record attached to and forming a part of the Registered Bond.

The Board hereby covenants and agrees that it will, at its sole expense, upon ninety (90) days' written request from the Registered Owner of any Registered Bond, to the Treasury Board, and, upon the surrender thereof to the Treasury Board, deliver in exchange for such Registered Bond Coupon Bonds payable to bearer, registrable as to principal only, in the denomination of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) each, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount, then unpaid, of any such Registered Bond and having maturities corresponding to the maturities of the principal installments, then unpaid, of the Registered Bond and having annexed thereto coupons maturing after the date to which interest on such Registered Bond has been fully paid, in the form hereinafter in this Resolution set forth.

SECTION 2.03. All Bonds issued hereunder shall be executed in the name of the Board by its President, and the corporate seal of the Board shall be thereunto affixed and attested to by the Secretary of the Board. The coupons to be attached to the Coupon Bonds shall be authenticated by the facsimile signature of the said President. In case any of the officers who shall have signed, attested or sealed any of the Bonds or interest coupons shall cease to be such officer before the Bonds and interest coupons so signed, attested or sealed shall have been actually issued and delivered, such bonds and interest coupons shall be valid, nevertheless, and may be issued by the Board through the Treasury Board to the same effect as though the person who signed, attested or sealed such bonds or interest coupons had not ceased to be such officer. Such officers may sign the Bonds, or the facsimile signature of any President of the Board may authenticate the interest coupons appertaining to the Coupon Bonds, although said Bonds are dated prior to their or his assumption of office.

SECTION 2.04. The proceeds derived from the sale of the Bonds shall be disbursed by the State Treasurer as follows

(1) There shall be deposited in the Project Revenue Fund Account for allocation to the Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account, created under Article IV hereof, the amount equal to the accrued interest received upon the sale of the Bonds.

(2) After making the deposit directed in the preceding paragraph, the balance of said proceeds shall be applied by the State Treasurer to the payment of that certain note of the Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, dated May 12, 1958, and payable to the State Treasury, said note evidencing a loan from the Commonwealth to the University for the purpose of advancing funds with which to pay the Costs of the Development of the Project.

(3) If the Costs of the Development of the Project are less than $150,000. then in such event the difference between the Costs of the Development of the Project and $150,000. shall be promptly transmitted to the State Treasurer and shall (to the extent that such amount shall be sufficient to redeem or prepay multiples of $1,000. principal amount of the Bonds) be promptly applied by the State Treasurer to the redemption of Bonds or prepayment of portions of fully registered Bonds then outstanding at the principal amount thereof and accrued interest to date of redemption or prepayment. Any such balance in an amount less than $1,000. shall be deposited in the Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account created under Article IV.

SECTION 2.05. The Board shall cause to be kept, at the principal office of the Treasury Board, books for the registration and transfer of Bonds in the manner provided therein so long as any of the Bonds shall remain outstanding. The Board and the Treasury Board may treat the bearer of any coupon, the bearer of any Bond which shall be registered to bearer, or which shall not at the time be registered, and the Registered Owner of any Bond which shall at the time be registered other than to bearer, as the absolute owner of such coupon or Bond for all purposes, and neither the Board nor the Treasury Board shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.

SECTION 3.01. Coupon Bonds numbered M1 to M21, inclusive, maturing November 1, 1960, through November 1, 1968, inclusive, shall not be subject to redemption prior to the respective maturities thereof

Coupon Bonds numbered M22 to M120, inclusive, maturing November 1, 1969 through November 1, 1993, inclusive, shall be subject to redemption prior to the stated maturities thereof, at the option of the Board, on any interest payment date after November 1, 1968 as a whole, or, from time to time, in part in inverse numerical order, the redemption price to be paid with respect to each such Bond to be the percentage of the principal amount thereof as set forth below, plus accrued interest thereon to the date fixed for redemption, to-wit

Coupon Bonds numbered M121 to M150, inclusive, maturing November 1, 1994 through November 1, 1998, inclusive, shall be subject to redemption prior to their stated maturities, at the option of the Board, on any interest payment date from and after the issuance and delivery thereof, as a whole, or, from time to time, in part in inverse numerical order, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest to the date fixed for redemption.

In the event that the Board shall exercise its option to redeem any of the Coupon Bonds prior to the stated maturities thereof, as herein provided, Coupon Bonds numbered M121 to M150, inclusive, shall first be redeemed.

SECTION 3.02. Whenever the Board by resolution shall determine to redeem any of the Coupon Bonds in accordance with the right reserved so to do, unless all of the Coupon Bonds to be redeemed are registered Coupon Bonds, a notice of such redemption shall be given by publication of a notice in a financial newspaper published in the English language and of general circulation in New York, New York, such publication to be made not less than thirty (30) nor more than forty (40) days prior to the date fixed for redemption. Such notice shall specify the maturities and numbers of the Coupon Bonds to be redeemed (if less than all then outstanding) and the date fixed for redemption.

SECTION 3.03. A notice similar in form to that prescribed in Section 3.02 shall be deposited by the Treasury Board in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the redemption date, addressed to the owners of registered Coupon Bonds called for redemption, at the addresses appearing upon the bond registry book.

SECTION 3.04. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Holders or Registered Owners of all Coupon Bonds to be redeemed shall file a written waiver of notice with the Treasury Board, such Coupon Bonds may be redeemed in inverse numerical order on the first day of the month next following the receipt by the Treasury Board of such waiver of notice, without the necessity of notice and without the payment of premiums, if so provided in the said waiver.

SECTION 3.05. Notice of redemption having been given by publication in the manner hereinabove provided, if required, and notice of redemption having been mailed to the owners of registered Coupon Bonds to be redeemed, or written waivers of notice having been filed with the Treasury Board by the Holders or Registered Owners of all Coupon Bonds to be redeemed, and the principal, the premium, if any, and the accrued interest payable having been deposited with the State Treasurer, or having been set aside by the State Treasurer for that purpose, as provided in this Resolution, on or prior to the date set for redemption, the Coupon Bonds so called for redemption shall become payable on the redemption date so designated, and the interest on such Coupon Bonds shall cease from such redemption date, whether such Coupon Bonds be presented for redemption or not, and the coupons representing the interest on any of the said Coupon Bonds thereafter to accrue shall from that date be void. The principal amount of all Coupon Bonds, the applicable premium, if any, and the accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of redemption shall be paid by the Treasury Board upon the presentation and surrender thereof in negotiable form, accompanied by the coupons, if any, representing such interest. All coupons maturing subsequent to the date of redemption must accompany each Coupon Bond so redeemed. All Coupon Bonds so redeemed shall be cancelled and cremated by the Treasury Board.

SECTION 3.06. The installments of principal of Registered Bonds maturing November 1, 1960 through November 1, 1968, inclusive, are not subject to prepayment.

The installments of principal of Registered Bonds maturing November 1, 1969 through November 1, 1993, inclusive, shall be subject to prepayment prior to the stated maturities thereof, at the option of the Board, on any interest payment date after November 1, 1968 as a whole, or, from time to time, in part, in the amount of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) or any multiple thereof in the inverse order of maturity of the said installments upon payment of the price for each One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) principal amount thereof as set forth below, plus accrued interest thereon to the date fixed for prepayment, to-wit

The installments of principal of Registered Bonds maturing November 1, 1994 through November 1, 1998, inclusive, shall be subject to prepayment prior to the stated maturities thereof, at the option of the Board, on any interest payment date from and after the issuance and delivery thereof, as a whole, or, from time to time, in part, in the amount of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) or any multiple thereof in the inverse order of maturity of the said installments upon payment of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest to the date fixed for prepayment.

In the event the Board shall exercise its option to prepay the principal installments of any of the Registered Bonds prior to the stated maturities thereof as herein provided, the principal installments maturing November 1, 1994 through November 1, 1998, inclusive, shall first be prepaid

SECTION 3.07. Notice of any prepayment of the principal of any Registered Bond, or any portion thereof, as hereinabove permitted shall be given by Registered Mail to the Registered Owner of any such Registered Bond at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed for prepayment, the amount of principal to be prepaid, the premium thereon, if any, and the amount of accrued interest thereon to the date of prepayment.

SECTION 3.08. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, so long as the Registered Owner of any Registered Bond is the Government, the Board may, at its option, prepay, on any date, the entire unpaid principal amount of any such Registered Bond so owned, or any lesser portion of the said principal amount, from time to time, in the amount of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) or any multiple thereof, in the inverse order of maturity of the installments of principal of any such Registered Bond, or of the said installments thereof, together with accrued interest to the date of prepayment, it being the intent of this Section 3.08 that as long as the Government is the Registered Owner of any such Registered Bond, all noncallable provisions applicable to the principal of any such Registered Bond, or applicable to any of the installments of principal thereof, all premiums for the prepayment of the principal of any such Registered Bond, or for the prepayment of any of the installments of principal thereof, all provisions for the publishing or mailing of notice of prepayment and all specific prepayment dates, shall be deemed and considered as waived.

SECTION 3.09. Notice of any prepayment having been given in accordance with the requirements of Section 3.07 of this Article III unless waived by the provisions of Section 3.08, and the principal amount to be prepaid, the premium thereon, if any, and the accrued interest payable thereon having been deposited with the State Treasurer, and having been set aside by the State Treasurer for that purpose, as provided in this Resolution, on or prior to the date of prepayment, the principal amount of any Registered Bond so called or designated for prepayment shall become payable on the prepayment date so designated and the interest upon such principal amount shall cease upon such prepayment date, whether or not a notation of such prepayment is made upon the Payment Record attached to any such Registered Bond. During the time that the Government is the Registered Owner of any Registered Bond, any prepayment of such Bond so owned shall be made at the principal office of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, Richmond, Virginia, or at the principal office of any other depositary as the Government shall designate, and such prepayment, except final payment, may be without the presentation or surrender of the Registered Bond to the Treasury Board, but such prepayment shall be noted on the Payment Record attached to such Registered Bond by the said Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, or by any other authorized depositary. If the Government shall assign any Registered Bond owned by it, any prepayment to any assignee shall be made only upon the surrender by such assignee of such Registered Bond to the Treasury Board for notation of such prepayment upon the said Payment Record.

SECTION 4.01. There is hereby created a special account to be known as the "Project Revenue Fund Account" (hereinafter called the "Revenue Fund"), which shall be maintained as long as any of the Bonds are outstanding and which shall be held separate and apart from all other funds of the Board and which shall be maintained by the Board with the State Treasurer. The Board covenants and agrees that it will pay to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Revenue Fund the amount of all accrued interest received by the Board upon the sale of the Bonds, for allocation to the Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account in accordance with Section 2.04 of this Resolution, and thereafter, as soon as any portion of the Project has become revenue-producing, the Board also covenants and agrees to pay monthly to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Revenue Fund the Gross Revenues derived by it from the Project.

The moneys from time to time on deposit in the Revenue Fund shall be held by the State Treasurer in trust and shall be subject to a lien and charge in favor of the Bondholders until disbursed as hereinafter provided.

Moneys from time to time on deposit in the Revenue Fund shall be expended and used only in the manner and in the order specified in Sections 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and 4.05 hereof

SECTION 4.02. Current Expenses of the Project (herein called "Current Expenses") shall be payable, as a first charge from the Revenue Fund as the same become due and payable. For the purpose of paying the said Current Expenses there is hereby created a special account to be known as the "Current Expenses Account" which shall be maintained by the Board with the State Treasurer, and the State Treasurer shall transfer in each Fiscal Year from the Revenue Fund to the Current Expenses Account in the manner and at the times hereinafter set forth the amounts required to pay the Current Expenses during the then current Fiscal Year, the aggregate of which shall, in no event, exceed the amount provided therefor in the Current Expenses Budget (hereinafter provided for) for such Fiscal Year. There shall be transferred monthly from the Revenue Fund to the Current Expenses Account not more than one-twelth (1/12) of the Current Expenses Budget requirements. The Current Expenses Account shall be applied from time to time by the State Treasurer to the payment of Current Expenses as budgeted, upon the vouchers of the treasurer or other authorized fiscal officer of the Board.

Prior to the beginning of each Fiscal Year, the Board shall prepare and adopt by resolution a proposed budget of Current Expenses during such ensuing Fiscal Year (herein called the "Current Expenses Budget"). The proposed Current Expenses shall be itemized according to proper classification and in reasonable detail, and the resolution of the Board adopting such Budget shall find and determine that the Current Expenses listed therein constitute Current Expenses as defined in Article I of this Resolution. If for any reason the Current Expenses Budget shall not have been adopted and approved by the Board on or before the beginning of any Fiscal Year, the Current Expenses Budget for the preceding Fiscal Year shall be deemed to be in force for the current Fiscal Year until the Current Expenses Budget for such Year is adopted

The Current Expenses Budget for each Fiscal Year shall be filed promptly with the State Treasurer.

SECTION 4.03. There is hereby created a special account to be known as the "Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account" (hereinafter called the "Bond Fund"), which shall be maintained as long as any of the Bonds are outstanding by the Board with the State Treasurer in trust until applied as hereinafter provided. The State Treasurer shall deposit in the Bond Fund an amount equal to the accrued interest received upon the sale of the Bonds in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.04. Thereafter, as soon as any portion of the Project becomes revenue-producing, and after providing for the payment of Current Expenses as hereinbefore provided, the State Treasurer shall transfer from the Revenue Fund and deposit to the credit of the Bond Fund (a) on or before April 15 and October 15, respectively of each year, as long as any of the Bonds shall remain outstanding, an amount sufficient to pay the semi-annual installment of interest falling due on said Bonds on the next succeeding May 1 and November 1, respectively, and (b) on or before April 15, 1960, and on or before April 15 of each year thereafter, as long as any of the Bonds shall remain outstanding, an amount equal to one-half of the aggregate principal amount of the Coupon Bonds at the time outstanding which shall mature by their express terms on the next succeeding November 1, and an amount equal to one-half of the principal installments of Registered Bonds, which installments shall become due on the next succeeding November 1, and (c) on or before October 15, 1960, and on or before October 15 of each year thereafter, as long as any of the Bonds shall remain outstanding, an amount equal to one-half of the aggregate principal amount of the Coupon Bonds at the time outstanding which shall mature by their express terms on the next succeeding November 1, and an amount equal to one-half of the principal installments of Registered Bonds, which installments shall become due on the next succeeding November 1.

The State Treasurer, without any direction from the Board, shall use the money in the Bond Fund to pay the principal of and the interest on the Bonds as the same become due and payable.

SECTION 4.04. There is hereby created a special account to be known as the "Debt Service Reserve Fund Account" (hereinafter called the "Debt Service Reserve"), which shall be maintained by the Board with the State Treasurer in trust until applied as hereinafter provided. There shall be deposited in the Debt Service Reserve any securities of the United States of America or any marketable negotiable securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange that have been or shall be donated to the University for the purpose of establishing the Debt Service Reserve, in accordance with the Stipulation Agreement attached hereto and marked Exhibit A. From the moneys remaining in the Revenue Fund after allocating the full amounts required to be paid therefrom into the Current Expenses Account and the Bond Fund, the State Treasurer shall next allocate and pay into the Debt Service Reserve on or before the close of each Fiscal Year such amount as shall be necessary to make the aggregate of the funds and investments therein equal at least to the "Required Value," or the principal amount of the Bonds then outstanding, whichever is the lesser. The moneys held in the Debt Service Reserve shall be continously invested as nearly as practicable in marketable direct obligations of the United States of America or marketable negotiable securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange. All income or profits on such investments shall be credited to and all losses thereon shall be charged to the Debt Service Reserve. The income from such investments and, if necessary, the proceeds of sale of all or part of such investments and any other moneys in the Debt Service Reserve shall be transferred to the Bond Fund to the extent that on any April 15 or October 15 the amounts deposited therein from the Revenue Fund may be insufficient to meet the current semi-annual principal and interest requirements on the outstanding Bonds. Should the Debt Service Reserve become impaired by shrinkage in the Required Value of the investments held therein or by withdrawals to make up deficiencies in the Bond Fund, the Debt Service Reserve shall be replenished as soon as possible from the next available moneys in the Revenue Fund before making any payments to the Building Maintenance and Equipment Reserve Account and the Bond Redemption Fund Account, and should the Debt Service Reserve not be made whole by the next June 30th, the rentals charged for the use of the Project for the next college year shall be increased by amounts sufficient (1) to make up the impairment by the next following June 30 and (2) to preclude further impairment.

SECTION 4.05. There is hereby created a special account to be known as the "Building Maintenance and Equipment Reserve Account" (hereinafter called the "Repairs Reserve") which shall be maintained by the Board with the State Treasurer in trust until applied as hereinafter provided. From the moneys remaining in the Revenue Fund after allocating therefrom the full amounts required to be paid into the Current Expenses Account, the Bond Fund and the Debt Service Reserve, including amounts necessary to replenish any deficiencies in said Debt Service Reserve, the State Treasurer shall next allocate, on or before the close of each Fiscal Year, the entire balance in the Revenue Fund until the funds and investments in the Repairs Reserve shall aggregate Three Thousand Dollars ($3,000). All moneys in the Repairs Reserve may be drawn on by vouchers of the treasurer or other fiscal officer of the Board and used for the purpose of paying the cost of unusual or extraordinary renovation or replacement of the Project's fixed equipment, kitchen ranges and refrigerators and buildings, including maintenance, repairs, renewals and replacements not paid as part of the Current Expenses, and any such withdrawals from the Repairs Reserve shall be replenished from the Revenue Fund as soon as possible after first making the required allocations from the Revenue Fund to the Current Expenses Account, the Bond Fund, and the Debt Service Reserve. In the event that the funds in the Bond Fund and the Debt Service Reserve shall be reduced below the amount required to meet the then current semi-annual debt service requirements on the outstanding Bonds and the Required Value of the Debt Service Reserve, funds on deposit in the Repairs Reserve shall be transferred to the Bond Fund to the extent required to make up any deficiencies in the Bond Fund.

SECTION 4.06. There is hereby created a special account to be known as the "Bond Redemption Fund Account" (hereinafter called the "Redemption Fund") which shall be maintained by the Board with the State Treasurer in trust until applied as hereinafter provided. From the moneys remaining in the Revenue Fund after allocating therefrom the full amounts required to be paid into the Current Expenses Account, the Bond Fund, the Debt Service Reserve and the Repairs Reserve, the State Treasurer shall next allocate and pay into the Redemption Fund, on or before the close of each fiscal year, the entire balance in the Revenue Fund. Whenever the accumulated funds in the Redemption Fund are equal to One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) or more, plus amounts required to pay the accrued interest and redemption premiums, if any, on Coupon Bonds subject to redemption, or on Registered Bonds subject to prepayment, such funds shall be used to redeem or prepay Bonds in their inverse numerical order or in the inverse order of maturity of the installments of principal thereof, as the case may be.

SECTION 4.11. When the total of the funds and investments in the Bond Fund, the Debt Service Reserve, the Repairs Reserve and the Redemption Fund is sufficient to redeem or prepay all of the outstanding Bonds, such funds and investments shall be applied to redeem or prepay all such Bonds.

SECTION 5.01. The Board covenants that it will, to the extent permitted by law, provide and replace, as necessary from time to time, from sources other than the proceeds of the Bonds to be issued hereunder and from sources and in a manner which will not adversely affect the security of the Bonds, the furnishings and the moveable equipment necessary to the full enjoyment of the use, occupancy and operation of the Project.

SECTION 5.02. Subject only to the right of the Board to cause amounts to be paid into the Current Expenses Account and to expend the same as hereinbefore provided, the Gross Revenues of the Project and all moneys and investments paid or to be paid, or held or to be held by the State Treasurer pursuant to the provisions of this Resolution, are hereby pledged to secure the payment of the principal of, the premiums, if any, and the interest on the Bonds in accordance with their terms and the provisions of this Resolution, and this pledge shall be valid and binding from and after the date upon which any Bonds are first issued hereunder, and the Gross Revenues as received by the Board and other moneys or investments hereby pledged, shall immediately be subject to the lien of this pledge without any physical delivery thereof or further act, and the lien of this pledge shall be valid and binding against all parties having any claim of any kind, in tort, contract or otherwise, against the Board, irrespective of whether such parties shall have notice thereof.

SECTION 5.03. The Board covenants that it promptly will pay, or will cause to be paid, the principal of, the premium, if any, and the interest on every Bond issued hereunder, at the places, on the dates and in the manner specified herein and in the said Bonds and in the coupons appertaining to the Coupon Bonds, according to the true intent thereof

SECTION 5.04. The Board covenants that it will at all times operate the Project properly and in a sound and economical manner, and will maintain, preserve and keep the same, with the appurtenances and every part and parcel thereof, in good repair, working order and condition, and will, from time to time, make all necessary and proper repairs, renewals and replacements so that at all times the operation of the Project may be properly and advantageously conducted.

SECTION 5.05. The Board covenants that it will establish and maintain, so long as any of the Bonds issued hereunder are outstanding, such parietal rules, rental rates and charges for the use of the Project as may be necessary to (1) assure maximum occupancy and use of the Project facilities, and (2) provide sufficient moneys to enable the Board to meet the requirements of the Current Expenses Account, the Bond Fund, the Debt Service Reserve and the Repairs Reserve as specified under Article IV of this Resolution, and that the Board will, so far as practicable, give preference to filling Project housing vacancies over other similar facilities at the College.

SECTION 5.06. The Board covenants that, so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding hereunder, it will not dispose of its title to the Project, or to any part thereof, including any lands or facilities necessary to the operation and use thereof, provided, however, that the Board, from time to time, may alter, repair, replace, change or add to the fixtures, equipment or structures of the Project, and may dispose of any machinery, fixtures or equipment, upon substituting other property of equal value and utility therefor.

SECTION 5.07. The Board covenants that, upon the acceptance of any part of the Project from the contractor, it will procure from responsible insurance companies, duly qualified to do business in the State of Virginia, and will maintain with a responsible insurance company or companies as long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, fire and extended coverage insurance thereon, in amounts sufficient to provide for not less than full recovery whenever the loss from causes covered by such insurance does not exceed eighty per centum (80%) of the full insurable value thereof.

All such policies of insurance carried by the Board shall be deposited with the State Treasurer, and the State Treasurer shall have the sole right to receive the proceeds of such policies of insurance and to collect and to receipt for claims thereunder. Such proceeds are hereby pledged, and shall be held by the State Treasurer as security for the Bonds until applied or paid out as hereinafter provided in this Section 5.07.

The State Treasurer hereby is authorized in his own name to demand, collect, sue and receipt for the insurance moneys which may become due and payable under such policies of insurance. Any appraisement or adjustment of any loss or damage and any settlement or payment of indemnity therefor, which may be agreed upon between the Board and any insurer, shall be evidenced to the State Treasurer by a certificate, signed by the President and the secretary or treasurer of the Board, and may be assented to and accepted by the State Treasurer. The State Treasurer may rely upon such certificate as conclusive and shall in no way be liable or responsible for the collection of insurance moneys in case of any loss or damage.

All such policies of insurance shall be open to the inspection of the Bondholders, their agents and representatives, and the Administrator, and his agents and representatives, at all reasonable times.

In the event of any damage to or destruction of the insured property, the Board, unless it elects to pay and to redeem all of the outstanding Bonds, shall proceed diligently and expeditiously to replace or to repair such damaged property. In the event of the payment to the State Treasurer of the proceeds of any insurance policy relative to any particular loss which does not exceed $10,000, such proceeds shall be paid over by the State Treasurer to the Board upon the written order of the President and treasurer of the Board, or such other fiscal officer of the Board as the Board shall by resolution appoint, and such payment shall be applied by the Board, to the extent required, solely for repairing or reconstructing the damaged property. If the proceeds of any such loss shall exceed $10,000, such proceeds shall be paid out by the State Treasurer, from time to time, to the Board, upon the written order of the President and treasurer of the Board, or such other fiscal officer of the Board as the Board shall by resolution appoint, but only upon the receipt by the State Treasurer of (1) a written requisition of the Board, executed by the President and treasurer of the Board or such other fiscal officer of the Board as the Board shall by resolution appoint, specifying the expenditures made or the indebtedness incurred in repairing or reconstructing the damaged property, and certifying that the proceeds of insurance, together with any other moneys available for such purpose, will be sufficient to complete such repairing or reconstructing, and (2) if the Holders of not less than fifty-one per centum (51%) of the outstanding Bonds shall request, written approval of the said requisition by an engineer or an architect named in the said request.

In the event that the proceeds of insurance together with all other moneys legally available for such purpose, are insufficient to complete the repair or the reconstruction of the damaged property, such proceeds shall be deposited with and shall be held by the State Treasurer as security for the Bonds and for the ratable benefit of the Holders thereof, provided, however, that if the Board shall so request and the Holders of not less than fifty-one per centum (51%) of the then outstanding Bonds, shall agree in writing, the State Treasurer shall apply to such repair or reconstruction (in the manner above specified) all moneys held by him in the Revenue Fund, the Bond Fund and all moneys and securities held by him in the Debt Service Reserve, the Repairs Reserve, and the Redemption Fund.

Any proceeds of insurance held by the State Treasurer or by the Board and remaining at the completion of any payment for such repair or reconstruction of the damaged property shall be deposited in the Bond Fund.

Whenever and so long as the funds and investments of the Debt Service Reserve hereinbefore provided for are less than the Required Value, the Board shall procure and maintain use and occupancy insurance on the Project in an amount sufficient to enable the Board to deposit in the Bond Fund out of the proceeds of such insurance, an amount equal to the sum that would normally have been available from the revenues of the damaged building or buildings for deposit in such Fund during the time the damaged building or buildings or non-revenue producing as a result of loss of use caused by hazards covered by fire and extended coverage insurance. The Board shall not be deemed in default under the terms of this Section if the Board shall procure said use and occupancy insurance required under this Section in ten (10) days from the date the funds and/or investments of the Debt Service Reserve become less than the Required Value.

SECTION 5.08. Subject to the provisions of Article VII hereof, the Board covenants that it will not, directly or indirectly, extend, or assent to the extension of, the time of payment of any coupons appertaining to, or the time of payment of any claim for interest on, any of the Bonds, and will not, directly or indirectly, be a party to, or approve, any such arrangement, by purchasing or funding such coupons or claims for interest, or in any other manner. In case any such coupons or claims for interest shall be extended or funded, such coupons or claims for interest shall not be entitled, in case of any default hereunder, to the benefit or the security of this Resolution, except subject to the prior payment in full of the principal of all Bonds outstanding hereunder and of all coupons and claims for interest which shall not have been so extended or funded.

SECTION 5.09. The Board covenants that it will at any and all times, in so far as it may be authorized so to do by law, pass, make, do, execute, acknowledge and deliver all and every such further resolutions, acts, deeds, conveyances, assignments, transfers and assurances as may be necessary or desirable for the better assuring, conveying, granting, assigning and confirming all and singular the Gross Revenues and other funds hereby pledged to the payment of the Bonds and interest thereon or intended so to be, or which the Board may hereafter become bound to pledge or assign.

SECTION 5.10. The Board covenants that it will keep and preserve complete and accurate financial records and proper books relating to the Project, including complete and accurate accounts of all sums of money received and disbursed in connection with the operation and maintenance of the Project, such as all amounts charged and collected as fees, rents and charges in connection with the Project and all sums disbursed for the payment of the principal of or interest on or other debt service with respect to the Bonds issued pursuant to this Resolution, and such records and books shall be open to inspection by the Bondholders and their agents and representatives at all reasonable times, and that it will furnish to the State Treasurer and to any Bondholder, upon request in writing not later than ninety (90) days after the close of each Fiscal Year, a statement of all sums received and disbursed in connection with the Project and of the status of the Bond Fund, the Debt Service Reserve, and the Repairs Reserve, including balance sheets and financial statements certified by the Auditor of Public Accounts of the State of Virginia and compiled in accordance with the system of accounting prescribed by said Auditor of Public Accounts, reflecting in reasonable detail the financial condition and record of operations of the Project.

SECTION 5.11. So long as any of the Bonds are outstanding and unpaid, the Board will not furnish or supply any commodity, service or facility furnished by or in connection with the Project free of charge to any person, firm or corporation, public or private

SECTION 5.12. The Board covenants that it will not issue any Bonds, certificates or other evidences of indebtedness, other than the Bonds authorized hereby, secured by a pledge of the Gross Revenues, and it will not create or cause to be created any lien or charge on such Gross Revenues, and no part of the Project will be sold, mortgaged, leased or otherwise disposed of or encumbered, nor will any lien for other purposes be allowed to remain thereon.

SECTION 5.13. The Board covenants that it will do and perform or cause to be done and performed all acts and things required to be done or performed by or on behalf of the Board under the provisions of the Constitution and statutes of the State of Virginia and this Resolution in accordance with the terms of such provisions.

SECTION 6.01. The Holders from time to time of the Bonds shall be entitled to all the remedies and benefits of and be subject to the provisions of Section 23-20 of Chapter 3 of Title 23 of the Code of Virginia 1950, as amended, and any trustee appointed by the Holders of the Bonds pursuant to said Section 23-20 shall have the powers prescribed by sub-paragraph (d) of said Section 23-20

SECTION 6.02. No remedy herein conferred upon the Holders from time to time of the Bonds is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy, but each such remedy is cumulative and in addition to any other remedy and may be exercised without exhausting and without regard to any other remedy conferred by law or by this Resolution.

No waiver of any default or breach of duty or contract by any Holder of the Bonds shall extend to or affect any subsequent default or breach of duty or contract, or shall impair any rights or remedies thereon. No delay or omission of any Holder of Bonds to exercise any right or power accruing upon any default shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or acquiescence therein. Every substantive right and every remedy conferred upon the Holders of the Bonds may be enforced and exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed expedient. In case any suit, action or proceeding to enforce any right or exercise any remedy shall be brought or taken and then discontinued or abandoned, or shall be determined adversely to the Holders of the Bonds, then and in every case the Board and such Holders of the Bonds shall be restored to their former positions and rights and remedies as if no suit, action or proceeding had been brought or taken

SECTION 7.01. The Board, from time to time, and at any time, may adopt a resolution amending or supplementing the provisions of this Resolution (which thereafter shall form a part hereof), which shall not adversely affect the rights of the Holders of the Bonds outstanding hereunder, for any of the following purposes

(a) to cure any ambiguity, formal defect or omission in this Resolution, or in any supplemental resolution, or

(b) to grant to or to confer upon the Holders of the Bonds, any additional rights, remedies, powers, authority or security that lawfully may be granted to, or conferred upon, the Holders of the Bonds, or

(c) to add to the covenants and agreements of the Board in this Resolution contained other covenants and agreements thereafter to be observed, or to surrender any right or power herein reserved to, or conferred upon the Board.

SECTION 7.02. With the consent of the Holders of not less than sixty-five per centum (65%) of the Bonds then outstanding, the Board, from time to time, and at any time, may adopt a resolution amending or supplementing the provisions of this Resolution (which thereafter shall form a part hereof), for the purposes of adding any provisions to, or changing in any manner, or eliminating, any of the provisions of this Resolution, or of any supplemental resolution, or modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Bonds and coupons, provided, however, that no such resolution amending or supplementing the provisions hereof shall (i) extend the fixed maturity date for the payment of the principal, or of any installment of the principal, of any Bond, or reduce the principal amount of any Bond, or reduce the rate, or extend the time of payment, of interest thereon, or reduce any premium payable upon the redemption or prepayment thereof, without the specific consent of the Holder of each Bond so affect, or (ii) permit the creation by the Board of any lien or encumbrance prior to or on a parity with the lien of this Resolution upon any part of the receipts, revenues, Gross Revenues and securities of the Board specifically securing the payment of the Bonds, or reduce the aforesaid percentage of Bonds, the Holders of which are required to consent to any such resolution amending or supplementing the provisions hereof, without the specific consent of the Holders of all the Bonds then outstanding. It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders of the Bonds under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed resolution amending or supplementing the provisions hereof, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the substance thereof. A modification or amendment of the provisions with respect to the Revenue Fund, the Bond Fund or the Debt Service Reserve is not to be deemed a change in the terms of payment, provided, however, that no such modification or amendment shall, except upon the consent of the Holders of all outstanding Bonds affected thereby, reduce the amount, or amounts, required to be on deposit, or required to be deposited, in said accounts, Nothing herein contained, however, shall be construed as making necessary the approval by the Bondholders of the adoption of any amending or supplementing resolution, as authorized in Section 7.01 of this Article VII.

SECTION 7.03. Upon the adoption of any resolution amending or supplementing the provisions of this Resolution pursuant to the provisions of this Article VII, this Resolution shall be modified and amended in accordance therewith, and the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under this Resolution of the Board and of the Holders of the Bonds and coupons shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments, and all of the terms and conditions of any such amending or supplementing resolution shall be a part of the terms and conditions of this Resolution for any and all purposes.

SECTION 8.01. The Coupon Bonds, the interest coupons to be attached to the Coupon Bonds, Provisions for Registration to appear thereon, form of Registered Bond, the Form of Assignment and the form of Payment Record to appear thereon, shall be in substantially the following form, respectively

No. \_\_\_\_\_

$1,000

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia (herein called the "Board"), a public corporation and governmental instrumentality of the State of Virginia, acknowledges itself indebted and for value received hereby promises to pay to bearer, or, if this Bond be registered as to principal, to the registered owner hereof, on the 1st day of November, 19\_\_, unless this Bond shall be redeemable and shall have been duly called for previous redemption and payment of the redemption price shall have been duly made or provided for, the principal sum of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) and to pay interest on such principal sum from date hereof at the rate of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_per centum (\_\_\_\_\_%) per annum, payable semi-annually on the first day of May and November in each year, until the principal hereof has been paid, only upon presentation and surrender of the coupons hereto attached as they severally mature.

The principal of, the premium, if any, and the interest on, this Bond shall be payable at the principal office of the Treasury Board of the State of Virginia, Richmond, Virginia, or, at the option of the holder, at The Chase Manhattan Bank, in the Borough of Manhattan, City and State of New York, in any coin or currency which, on the respective dates of payment, is legal tender for the payment of debts due the United States of America.

This Bond is a special obligation of the Board, and is one of an issue of Bonds issued by the Board pursuant to Chapter 3, Title 23, of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and pursuant to a resolution of the Board entitled "Resolution authorizing the issuance of One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000) principal amount of Clinch Valley College Faculty Housing Bonds of 1958 of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, fixing the form and other details, securing the payment and providing for the rights of the holders thereof" (herein called the "Resolution"), duly adopted by the Board to finance the construction of six single-family dwellings and a four-unit apartment building, each with necessary appurtenant facilities to house ten faculty families at Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia, located in Wise, Virginia (herein called the "Project"), and this Bond and the Bonds of the issue of which it is a part are payable solely from the Gross Revenues of the Project after payment of the Current Expenses of the Project, and from such other sources as provided in the Resolution. Reference is hereby made to the Resolution for a description of the nature and extent of the security for the Bond, the funds and revenues pledged, the nature and extent and manner of enforcement of the pledge, the rights and remedies of the holder hereof with respect thereto, the terms and conditions upon which the Bond is issued and the rights and obligations of the Board.

Coupon Bonds of this issue, of which this Bond is one, are numbered consecutively from M1 to M150, inclusive, in the order of maturity. Bonds numbered M1 to M21, inclusive, maturing November 1, 1960 through November 1, 1968, inclusive, are not subject to redemption prior to the respective maturities thereof.

Bonds numbered M22 to M 120, inclusive, maturing November 1, 1969 through November 1, 1993, inclusive, are subject to redemption prior to the stated maturities thereof at the option of the Board on any interest payment date after November 1, 1968, as a whole, or, from time to time, in part, in inverse numerical order, the redemption price to be paid with respect to each such Bond to be the percentage of the principal amount thereof as set forth below, plus accrued interest thereon to the date fixed for redemption, to-wit

Bonds numbered M121 to M 150, inclusive, maturing November 1, 1994 through November 1, 1998, inclusive, are subject to redemption prior to their stated maturities, at the option of the Board, in whole, or, from time to time, in part, in inverse numerical order on any interest payment date from and after the issuance and delivery thereof at a redemption price equal to the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest to the date fixed for redemption.

In the event that the Board shall exercise its option to redeem any of the Coupon Bonds of the issue of which this Bond is one prior to the stated maturities thereof, Coupon Bonds numbered M121 to M150, inclusive, shall first be redeemed.

Notice of any such redemption shall be given by registered mail to the registered owners of the Bonds to be redeemed at their addresses appearing upon the bond registry books at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed for redemption, and unless all of the Bonds to be redeemed have been registered as to principal, notice of such redemption shall be given by publication, one time only, in a financial newspaper published in the English language and of general circulation in New York, New York. Said notice shall be published not more than forty (40) nor less than thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed for redemption, unless waivers of such notice of redemption shall have been duly filed in accordance with the provisions of the Resolution. Bonds called for redemption shall cease to bear interest from and after the date fixed for redemption unless presented for redemption on that date and not paid in accordance with the notice of redemption.

This Bond and the Bonds of the issue of which it is a part are issued pursuant to and under the authority of and in strict compliance with the Constitution and statutes of the State of Virginia.

This Bond is subject to the Provisions for Registration endorsed on the back hereof and, unless registered as to principal in accordance with such Provisions for Registration, is transferable by delivery.

It is hereby certified, recited and declared that all acts, conditions and things required by the Constitution and statutes of the State of Virginia to exist, to have happened and to have been performed precedent to and in the issuance of this Bond, do exist, have happened and have been performed in due time, form and manner as required by law.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Board has caused this Bond to be executed in its name by its President and the corporate seal of the said Board to be hereunto affixed and attested by the Secretary of the Board, and the interest coupons hereto attached to be executed by the facsimile signature of the said President, all as of the 1st day of November, 1958.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

By\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ President

ATTEST \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Secretary

(Seal)

(FORM OF COUPON)

No.\_\_\_\_\_

$\_\_\_\_\_

On the 1st day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_, unless the Bond hereinafter mentioned shall be redeemable and shall have been duly called for previous redemption and payment of the redemption price duly made or provided for, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, a public corporation and governmental instrumentality of the State of Virginia, will pay to bearer, at the principal office of the Treasury Board of the State of Virginia, Richmond, Virginia, or, at the option of the bearer hereof, at the principal office of The Chase Manhattan Bank, in the Borough of Manhattan, City and State of New York, upon surrender hereof, and solely from the revenues applicable to the payment hereof as provided in said Bond the sum of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Dollars ($\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_), in any coin or currency of the United States of America which at the time of payment hereof is legal tender for the payment of debt due the United States of America, being the interest then due on its Clinch Valley College Faculty Housing Bond of 1958, dated November 1, 1958, and numbered M\_\_\_\_\_.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

By \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ President

(FORM OF REGISTRATION)

This Bond may be registered as to principal only in the name of the holder on books of registration to be kept at the principal office of the Treasury Board of the State of Virginia in Richmond, Virginia, such registration to be noted in the registration blank below. After such registration no transfer hereof shall be valid, unless made on said books and similarly noted hereon, but such registration may be made to bearer and thereupon transferability by delivery shall be restored, after which this Bond, from time to time, again may be registered, or may be made transferable by delivery as before. The registration of this Bond as to principal only shall not affect the negotiability of the coupons hereto attached, which always shall continue to be payable to bearer and to be transferable by delivery merely.

(Notice No writing on this Bond except by the Registrar)

DATE OF REGISTRATION \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

IN WHOSE NAME REGISTERED \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

SIGNATURE OF REGISTRAR \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

No. \_\_\_\_\_

$\_\_\_\_\_

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia (herein called the "Board"), a public corporation and governmental instrumentality of the State of Virginia, acknowledges itself indebted and for value received hereby promises to pay to \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, or his successor (herein called the "Payee"), or his registered assigns (herein called the "Alternate Payee"), the aggregate principal sum of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Dollars ($\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_) in installments on November 1 in each of the years and in the principal amounts as follows

in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of debts due the United States of America, and to pay interest on the balance of said principal sum from time to time remaining unpaid, in like coin or currency at the rate of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ per centum (\_\_\_\_\_%) per annum from the date hereof, semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year, commencing May 1, 1959 until the said principal sum hereof has been paid.

During the time the Payee is the registered owner of this Bond, payment of the principal installments and interest due shall be made at The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, Richmond, Virginia, or such other fiscal agent as the Payee shall designate (herein called the "Fiscal Agent"). During such time as an Alternate Payee is the registered owner hereof, said payments, together with premiums due upon prepayment of installments of principal, if any, shall be made at the principal office of the Treasury Board of the State of Virginia, Richmond, Virginia. During such time as the Payee is the registered owner of this Bond, payments of the principal installments and interest, including prepayments of principal installments as hereinafter provided, shall be made by the Board through the Treasury Board without presentation and surrender of this Bond to the Fiscal Agent and said payments shall be noted on the Payment Record made a part of this Bond, and if payment is made at the office of the Fiscal Agent written notice of the making of such notation shall be promptly sent to the Treasury Board at its principal office in Richmond, Virginia, and such payments shall fully discharge the obligation of the Board hereon to the extent of the payments so made. If the Payee shall assign this Bond, as hereinafter provided, the Alternate Payee shall surrender the same to the Treasury Board either for exchange for a new Registered Bond in the unpaid principal amount of this Bond, or for a verification of the payments noted upon the said Payment Record, and thereafter all payments of principal, premiums, if any, and interest on such Registered Bond shall be made only upon the surrender thereof to the Treasury Board for the notation of said payments upon the said Payment Record. Upon final payment of principal and interest, this Bond shall be submitted to the Treasury Board for cancellation and surrender to the Board.

This Bond, designated as the "Clinch Valley College Faculty Housing Bond of 1958" is a special obligation of the Board, and is issued by the Board pursuant to Chapter 3, Title 23, of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and pursuant to a resolution of the Board entitled "Resolution authorizing the issuance of One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000) principal amount of Clinch Valley College Faculty Housing Bonds of 1958 of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, fixing the form and other details, securing the payment and providing for the rights of the holders thereof" (herein called the "Resolution"), duly adopted by the Board to finance the construction of six single-family dwellings and a four-unit apartment building, each with necessary appurtenant facilities to house ten faculty families at Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia, located in Wise, Virginia (herein called the "Project"), and this Bond is payable solely from the Gross Revenues of the Project after payment of the Current Expenses of the Project, and from such other sources as provided in the Resolution. Reference is hereby made to the Resolution for a description of the nature and extent of the security for the Bond, the funds and revenues pledged, the nature and extent and manner of enforcement of the pledge, the rights and remedies of the holder hereof with respect thereto, the terms and conditions upon which the Bond is issued and the rights and obligations of the Board.

As provided in the Resolution, this Bond is exchangeable at the sole expense of the Board at any time, on ninety (90) days written notice, at the request of the registered owner hereof and upon surrender hereof to the Board at the principal office of the Treasury Board, for negotiable Coupon Bonds, in the form provided in the Resolution, payable to bearer, registrable as to principal only, of the denomination of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) each, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unpaid principal amount of this Bond, and maturing in the respective amounts and at the respective times as the unpaid principal installments hereof.

On any interest payment date, the Board shall have the right to prepay the principal installments due on and after November 1, 1994, or such lesser portion thereof as it may determine upon, in inverse chronological order of the said installments and in multiples of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000), at the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest to the date of prepayment, and after the prepayment of all the aforesaid installments, the Board shall have the right to prepay, on any interest payment date after November 1, 1968, the principal maturing November 1, 1969 through November 1, 1993, inclusive, or such lesser portion thereof as it may determine upon, in inverse chronological order of the said principal installments and in multiples of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) at the prices for each One Thousand Dollar ($1,000) multiple as set forth below, plus accrued interest thereon to the date fixed for prepayment, to-wit

provided, however, that so long as the Payee is the registered owner of this Bond, the Board, at its option, may prepay, on any interest payment date, all the principal installments then remaining unpaid, or such lesser portion thereof as it may determine upon, in inverse chronological order of the said installments and in multiples of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) at the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest to the date of such prepayment.

Notice of any prepayment shall be given at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed for such prepayment by mailing to the registered owner of this Bond a notice fixing such date of prepayment, specifying the amount of principal to be prepaid, the premium thereon, if any, and the amount of accrued interest thereon to the date of prepayment.

This Bond may be assigned. Upon such assignment the assignor, as provided in the Resolution, shall promptly notify the Board thereof, at the office of the Treasury Board by registered mail, and the Alternate Payee shall surrender the Bond to the Treasury Board either for verification of the notations of the payments of principal and interest and prepayments of principal on the Payment Record hereof, and registration on the books of registry in the name of the Alternate Payee, or, at the option of the Board, in exchange for a new fully registered Bond, similar hereto, for the then unpaid principal amount hereof.

This Bond is issued pursuant to and under the authority of and in strict compliance with the Constitution and statutes of the State of Virginia.

It is hereby certified, recited and declared that all acts, conditions and things required by the Constitution and statutes of the State of Virginia to exist, to have happened and to have been performed precedent to and in the issuance of this Bond, do exist, have happened and have been performed in due time, form and manner as required by law.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Board has caused this Bond to be executed in its name by its President and the corporate seal of the said Board to be hereunto affixed and attested by the Secretary of the Board, all as of the 1st day of November, 1958.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

By \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ President

ATTEST \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Secretary

(SEAL)

(FORM OF ASSIGNMENT)

For value received \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ the within mentioned Bond, and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ attorney to transfer said Bond on the books of registration in the office of the Treasury Board of the State of Virginia, Richmond, Virginia, with full power of substitution in the premises.

Dated \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Witness \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Note The signature to this Assignment must correspond with the name as written on the face of the within Bond in every particular, without alteration, enlargement or any change whatsoever.

SECTION 9.01. If the Board shall pay or cause to be paid to the Holders of all Bonds and coupons outstanding hereunder, the principal and interest due thereon and the premiums, thereon, if any, at the times and in the manner stipulated therein and in this Resolution, then the pledge of the Gross Revenues and other moneys and securities hereby pledged, and all moneys and securities then in any of the Funds or Accounts created hereunder shall thereupon belong to the Board free of any and all liens herein provided.

Coupon Bonds for the payment or for the redemption of which funds, in the full amount required therefor, shall have been deposited with the Treasury Board, whether upon, or prior to, the maturity or the redemption date of such Coupon Bonds, shall be deemed to be paid within the meaning of this Article, provided, however, that if such Coupon Bonds are to be redeemed prior to the stated maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall have been duly given, or provision satisfactory to the Treasury Board shall have been made therefor, or waivers of such notice shall have been duly filed by the holders of the Coupon Bonds as provided in Article III of this Resolution. Similarly, if funds, in the full amount required therefor, shall have been deposited with the Treasury Board, for the payment or prepayment of the principal, or of any installment of the principal, of any Registered Bonds, including the interest accrued thereon to the due date or to the prepayment date, and including the prepayment premium, if any, whether such deposit was made upon, or prior to, the due date or prepayment date of such principal, such principal shall be deemed to be paid within the meaning of this Article, provided, however, that if such principal is to be prepaid before the due date thereof, notice of such prepayment shall have been duly given as provided in Article III of this Resolution.

If any Coupon Bond shall not be presented for payment when the principal thereof shall become due, either at maturity, or at the date fixed for the redemption thereof, or otherwise, or if any coupon shall not be presented for payment at the due date thereof, of if any Registered Bond shall not be presented for noting thereon the payment of any part of the principal thereof, or interest thereon, or of any prepayment premium thereon, if any (if such presentation be required by the terms of any Registered Bond or of this Resolution), and if the Board shall have deposited funds with the Treasury Board for that purpose, or if the Board shall have left with the Treasury Board, in trust, if previously so deposited or set aside, funds sufficient to pay such principal and the premium thereon, if any, together with all interest due thereon to the due date thereof, or to the date fixed for the redemption or prepayment thereof, or to pay such coupon, as the case may be, all liability of the Board for such payment shall forthwith cease, determine and be completely discharged, and thereupon it shall be the duty of the Treasury Board to hold said fund or funds, without liability for interest thereon, for the benefit of the Holder of such Coupon Bond or coupon, or for the benefit of the Registered Owners of the Registered Bonds, as the case may be, who thereafter shall be restricted exclusively to said fund or funds for any claim of whatsoever nature on his part under this Resolution, or on, or with respect to, said Bond or coupon for such payment.

SECTION 10.01. In case any Bond shall become mutilated, or shall be destroyed, stolen or lost, the Board, in its discretion, may issue and deliver a new Bond of like date, tenor, amount and maturity having attached the same corresponding coupons, if any, as the mutilated, destroyed, stolen or lost Bond, in exchange and in substitution for such mutilated Bond and attached coupons, if any, upon surrender and cancellation of such mutilated Bond and attached coupons, if any, or in lieu of and in substitution for the Bond and attached coupons, if any, destroyed, stolen or lost, upon the Holder filing with the Treasury Board evidence satisfactory to the Board and to the Treasury Board that such Bond and attached coupons, if any, have been destroyed, stolen or lost, and of his ownership thereof, and upon the Holder furnishing the Board and the Treasury Board with indemnity satisfactory to the, and complying with such other reasonable regulations as the Board and the Treasury Board may require. A charge, not exceeding the actual cost thereof, shall be imposed upon the Bondholder to reimburse the Board and the Treasury Board for the expenses of issuing each such new Bond, which cost shall be paid before the delivery of the new Bond. All such mutilated Bonds and coupons, if any, so surrendered to the Treasury Board shall be cancelled and cremated by the Treasury Board and a cremation certificate filed with the Board by the Treasury Board. If any such Bond or coupon shall have matured, or shall be about to mature, instead of issuing a substituted Bond or coupon, the Board and the Treasury Board may pay the same, upon receiving evidence and being indemnified as aforesaid, and, if such Bond or coupon be lost, stolen or destroyed, without the surrender thereof

Any such duplicate Bonds and coupons issued pursuant to this Section 10.01 shall constitute original additional contractual obligations on the part of the Board, whether or not the lost, stolen or destroyed Bonds or coupons be at any time found by anyone, and such duplicated Bonds and coupons shall be entitled to equal and proportionate benefits with all other Bonds and coupons issued hereunder.

SECTION 10.02. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement contained in this Resolution, or in any resolution supplemental hereto, or in any Bond or coupon hereby secured, or because of any indebtedness hereby secured, shall be had against any past, present or future member of the Board, officer or employee, as such of the Board, or of any successor to the Board, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision, or by the enforcement of any assessment, or by any legal or equitable proceeding, or otherwise, it being expressly agreed and understood that this Resolution and any resolution supplemental hereto, and the obligations hereby or thereby secured, are solely obligations of the Board and that no personal liability whatsoever shall attach to or shall be incurred by such members of the Board, officers or employees, as such, of the Board, or of any successor to the Board, or by any of them, because of the incurring of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of any of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Resolution, or in any resolution supplemental hereto, or in any of the Bonds or coupons hereby secured, or implied herefrom or therefrom

SECTION 10.03. Nothing in this Resolution, expressed or implied, is intended, or shall be construed, to confer upon, or to give to, any person or corporation, other than the parties hereto and the Holders of the Bonds and coupons outstanding hereunder, any right, remedy or claim under, or by reason of this Resolution or under, or by reason of, any covenant, condition or stipulation hereof, and all of the covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements in this Resolution contained by and on behalf of the Board shall be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Board and of the Holders of the Bonds and coupons outstanding hereunder.

SECTION 10.04. The President of the Board is hereby authorized and directed to cause the Bonds to be sold at public sale through the Treasury Board, pursuant to Chapter 3, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and pursuant to the provisions of the Loan Agreement, after publication of a notice of sale of said Bonds at least once in The Daily Bond Buyer, published in the City of New York, New York, the date of first publication of such notice of sale to be not less than two (2) weeks nor more than four (4) weeks prior to the date fixed in such notice for receipt of bids for the Bonds. Such notice of sale shall conform to the provisions of Section 3 of the Loan Agreement, and shall specify that the Bonds shall be sold at not less than the par value thereof, plus accrued interest thereon from their date to the date of delivery to the purchaser or purchasers therof, and all such Bonds or each block thereof, as may be awarded at such sale shall bear interest at such rate or rates averaging not more than two and seven-eights per centum (2-7/8%) per annum, as specified in the successful bid or bids.

In the event any or all of the Bonds are awarded to the Government, the Bonds so awarded shall bear interest at the rate of two and seven-eighths per centum (2-7/8%) per annum, as provided in the Loan Agreement.

In the event that any or all of the Bonds are awarded to a bidder or bidders other than the Government, such Bonds shall bear interest at the rate or rates of interest specified in the successful bid or bids for such Bonds, provided that the interest cost to maturity as specified in each such bid shall not exceed two and seven-eighths per centum (2-7/8%) per annum.

The Treasury Board is hereby authorized to accept bids for the Bonds in accordance with the provisions of this Section, and to fix the rate or rates of interest the Bonds shall bear, all in accordance with the provisions of the successful bid or bids therefor, the Loan Agreement, Chapter 3 of Title 23 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and this Section.

SECTION 10.05. This Resolution shall be in effect from and after its passage in accordance with the law and all resolutions or parts of resolutions in conflict herewith be and the same hereby are repealed to the extent of such conflict.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. Orlan L. Sawey as Associate Professor of English, as of 1 September 1960, at a salary of $7,800.

The President announced the following appointments

Mr. Orlan L. Sawey as Chairman of the Department of English, as of 1 September 1960

Mr. James Clayton Willis as Business Manager as of 18 January 1960.

The President reported that the Executive Committee, under the date of 11 January 1960, had authorized him to execute an agreement with the Victory Coal Company of Norton, Virginia, to auger the coal and remove it from certain lands at Clinch Valley College in return for the payment of a royalty of 10 cents per ton. He asked that the action of the Executive Committee be approved by the Board.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the action of the Executive Committee authorizing the President to execute an agreement with the Victory Coal Company to conduct certain coal mining operations on land at Clinch Valley College is hereby approved.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned