 TEI to HTML

ELECTIONSCHANGE OF DATE OF ELECTIONRE-ELECTIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCECHANGES OF TITLESPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSAPPOINTMENTSREPORT ON UNIVERSITY CONSOLIDATED ENDOWMENT FUNDUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSNEW MARRIED STUDENT HOUSING PROJECTHOSPITAL ACCOUNTSRALEIGH C. MINOR SCHOLARSHIPMADISON-CULPEPER EXTENSION CENTER OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESPATRICK-HENRY BRANCH OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESJOHN ALLAN LOVE TRUSTHENRY B. MULHOLLAND PROFESSORSHIP OF MEDICINEELECTION OF HENRY B. MULHOLLAND AS HENRY B. MULHOLLAND PROFESSOR OF MEDICINEGIFTS AND GRANTSMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCEREPORT ON FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO STUDENTS DURING THE 1960-1961 SESSIONREPORT ON ADMISSIONSGEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$56,921.86

Free Service to Counties and Cities

39,009.21

$95,931.07

From Mr. C. Waller Barrett, to Alderman Library, Washington Irving collection and Tennessee Williams manuscript of "Glass Menagerie", valued at

$ 98,969

From Mr. John Dos Passos, to Alderman Library, books and manuscripts, valued at

9,900

From Mr. Clem D. Johnston, to Alderman Library, 155 books and manuscripts, valued at

5,724

From Mrs. Wyndham B. Blanton and Family, to Alderman Library, books and manuscripts of the late Dr. Wyndham B. Blanton, valued at

6,596

From Mrs. Robert T. Baldwin, to Alderman Library, second portion of the Robert T. Baldwin books, valued at

3,507

From Mr. Charles M. Davison, to Alderman Library, collection of Southern Railway bonds, valued at

5,000

From Miss Margaret E. Phillips, to establish an endowment fund for a scholarship for students preparing to become ministers of the Protestant Episcopal Church in America

10,000

From Mr. John Allan Love, to be added to the John Allan Love Trust Fund, to establish a scholarship to be awarded to students from Missouri

10,623

From Mr. Tipton R. Snavely, Graduate School of Business, Endowment $500, T. R. Snavely Scholarship Fund $1,000, T. R. Snavely Prize Fund $300

1,800

From Mr. Norborne Berkeley, to be used for the renovation of "Morea"

500

From Mr. Freeman J. Daniels to be added to the Samuel Forrest Hyde Memorial Fellowship Fund, securities valued at

632

From Dr. Samuel Newman, to the Medical School to be added to the Otis Marshall Loan Fund

200

From Mr. Perc S. Brown, to Alderman Library, Benjamin Franklin promissory note signed in Paris May 15, 1781, valued at

2,000

From Mr. Linton R. Massey, to Alderman Library, 64 William Faulkner items, valued at

775

From Mr. Atcheson L. Hench, to Alderman Library, books and manuscripts valued at

1,995

From Mrs. James B. Cabell, to Alderman Library, two books by James Branch Cabell, valued at

325

From Mrs. C. Winn Canfield, to Alderman Library, 1,062 books, valued at

4,370

From Dr. Frank L. Bobbott, to the Medical School to be added to the Otis Marshall Loan Fund

250

From Mr. Knox Turnbull, to the hospital for use on the children's isolation ward, television set valued at

125

From Mrs. Edmonia C. L. Metcalf, to be added to the Metcalf Memorial Fund

200

From Mrs. Helen G. Mott, to the hospital to be added to the Mott Memorial Fund

500

From Mrs. Harry Yager, an unrestricted gift

100

From Mr. Edward Cale, an unrestricted gift

100

From an anonymous donor, a debate prize for students in economics and commerce

150

From the estate of the late George E. Clark, an unrestricted gift

100

From Mr. Earl C. B. Gould, Jr., an unrestricted gift

100

From Mr. Clarence S. Staats, Jr., an unrestricted gift

100

From the John Jay and Eliza Jane Watson Foundation, to be added to the Samuel Forrest Hyde Memorial Fellowship Fund

5,000

From the Lillia Bobbitt Hyde Foundation, to be added to the Samuel Forrest Hyde Memorial Fellowship Fund

$ 2,000

From an anonymous donor, to the Medical School to be added to the House Staff Fellowship Fund

2,400

From University Hospital Auxiliary, Hospital Equipment Fund $8,000, Indigent Drug Fund $250

8,250

From the Charles E. and Joy C. Pettinos Foundation, to be added to the Samuel Forrest Hyde Memorial Fellowship Fund

2,000

From the Camp Foundation, an unrestricted gift

250

From an anonymous donor, to be added to the James Southall Wilson Fellowship Fund

500

From Mrs. Grace Keane, to be added to the Children's Rehabilitation Center Equipment Fund

200

From the Robert Goldstein Foundation, to the Medical School to be added to the endowment fund for the David G. Wilson Memorial Lectureship in Psychiatry

12,000

From Bristol Cancer Association, to the Medical School to be added to the Research and Development Fund

500

From Lillie P. and John W. Taylor Fund, to the hospital to be added to the Taylor Cancer Research Fund

3,000

From St. Anthony Alumni Association of Virginia, to be used for student aid as directed by the Dean of the University

100

From an anonymous donor, to the Medical School in support of the FDPase Conference

1,803

From the Edgar Stern Family Foundation, for continued research under the direction of Prof. Paul T. David, Department of Political Science

4,675

From Bureau of Naval Weapons, for continued research under the direction of Prof. J. W. Beams, Department of Physics

10,000

From National Science Foundation, for a Summer Institute in Mathematics for secondary school teachers, under the direction of Dr. W. C. Lowry, School of Education

40,100

From National Science Foundation, for a Summer Institute in Science and Mathematics for secondary school teachers under the direction of Dr. J. W. Cole, Division of Extension and General Studies

73,600

From National Science Foundation, sponsorship of an Eastern Conference on Theoretical Physics, under the direction of Dr. M. E. Rose

2,500

From National Science Foundation, for summer research activities at the Mountain Lake Biological Station, under the direction of Dr. J. L. Riopel

34,000

From National Science Foundation, in support of an Academic Year Institute for Secondary School Teachers and Supervisors of Mathematics and Science, under the direction of Dr. J. W. Cole, Division of Extension and General Studies

274,200

From Department of the Army, for research under the direction of Mr. W. H. Dancy, Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences

15,000

From Diamond Ordnance Fuze Laboratory, U. S. Army, for continued research under the direction of Mr. B. J. Gilpin, Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences

40,000

From Air Force Office of Scientific Research, for research under the direction of Mr. H. M. Parker, Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences

126,778

From U. S. Public Health Service, a training grant under the direction of Dr. J. E. Wood, School of Medicine

24,948

From U. S. Public Health Service, a Research Career Development Award for Dr. G. Goldstein under the sponsorship of Dr. A. E. Feller, Department of Microbiology

12,623

From U. S. Public Health Service, a Research Career Development Award on behalf of Dr. R. Brunish, School of Medicine

1,004

From U. S. Public Health Service, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty

Dr. T. R. Johns, Dept. of Neurology & Psychiatry

20,700

Dr. C. C. Speidel, Dept. of Anatomy

3,501

Dr. Anne F. Hunter, Dept. of Preventive Medicine

16,675

Dr. A. Chanutin, Dept. of Biochemistry

16,539

Dr. R. Brunish, Dept. of Biochemistry

6,578

Dr. V. Hollander, Cancer Research Laboratory

8,648

From an anonymous donor, to be added to the endowment fund for the Graduate School of Business, securities valued at

126,000

From an anonymous donor, to be added to the endowment fund for Clinch Valley College, securities valued at

6,000

From an anonymous donor, an unrestricted gift, securities valued at

2,442

From an anonymous donor, to the Medical School to be added to the Margaret F. Boggess Memorial Endowment Fund, securities valued at

$ 26,581

From an anonymous donor, in support of the Thomas Jefferson Center for Studies in Political Economy

20,000

From an anonymous donor, in support of the Thomas Jefferson Center for Studies in Political Economy for the 1961-1962 session

7,000

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 10:00 a.m. in the Office of the Chancellor of Mary Washington College in Fredericksburg with the following present: Rector Albert V. Bryan; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Berkeley, Blanton, Coxe, Faulconer, Fenwick, Jones, Kendig, Lantor, Lewis, Martin, Montague, Pollock, and Wilkerson. Absent: Visitors Camp, Hartfield, and McWane. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson and Bursar Edgar E. Woodward were present throughout the discussion of Mary Washington College matters. Comptroller Vincent Shea was present during the discussion of the report on the University Consolidated Endowment Fund.

The minutes of the meeting of 9 December 1961, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. Phillip L. Devin as Instructor in Speech and Drama, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,500.

Mr. George P. Garrett as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,500.

Mr. George W. Ray as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,000.

Mr. William R. Robinson as Lecturer in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,600.

Mr. John L. Ruseau as Instructor in Architecture, for one semester, effective 1 February 1962, at a salary of $3,000.

Mr. Steve Sebo as Professor of Physical Education, to be effective on or about 1 March 1962, the exact date to be established by the President, at an annual salary of $15,160.

Mr. Paul S. Tauber as Lecturer in City Planning, in the School of Architecture, for one semester, effective 1 February 1962, at a salary of $2,000.

Dr. Charles Whitcher as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1962, at a salary of $19,000, of which $14,000 is to be paid from departmental earnings and the remainder from the National Fund for Medical Education.

Mr. Abraham Wilson as Lecturer in Law, for one semester, effective 1 February 1962, at a salary of $750.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Mr. James W. Moore as Acting Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for one year, be and it is hereby changed from 1 February 1962 to 1 September 1962.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:

Mr. Richard L. Beard as Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 February 1962

Miss Nellie B. Carwile as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 April 1962

Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Charles R. Milton as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leaves of absence

Mr. Marvin L. Colker, Associate Professor of Classics, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, without pay, to work on the cataloguing of mediaeval manuscripts in the Library of the University of Dublin.

Mr. Hardy C. Dillard, Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, without pay, to be Visiting Professor of Law at the Columbia University Law School.

Dr. Joseph Wolpe, Professor of Psychiatry, for one year, effective 1 August 1962, without pay, to enable him to complete his move from South Africa and to lecture and provide guidance in research at various teaching and research centers in Great Britain and Europe.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made

Dr. Gerald Goldstein from Assistant Professor of Microbiology to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and of Microbiology, effective 1 January 1962

Mr. John L. Snook, Jr. from Lecturer in Business Administration, to Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective 1 September 1962

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salaries indicated

Mr. Edwin E. Floyd, Professor of Mathematics, at a salary of $14,200, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Edward J. McShane, Professor of Mathematics, at a salary of $15,000, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. John L. Snook, Jr., Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a salary of $11,000, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. Gordon T. Whyburn, Professor of Mathematics, at a salary of $15,000, effective 1 September 1962

The President announced the following appointments:

Mr. Lewis M. Hammond as Chairman of the Department of Philosophy, for five years, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Frank L. Hereford as Chairman of the Department of Physics, for five years, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Steve Sebo as Director of Athletics, effective 1 July 1962.

Messrs. L. B. Gunn, Douglas G. Chapman, Jr., and R. B. Cardozo of the State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts of Richmond appeared before the Board and presented a detailed report on the University of Virginia Consolidated Endowment Fund for the year ending 25 January 1962. At the conclusion of the presentation and discussion, Messrs. Gunn, Chapman, and Cardozo left the room

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1038, 1039, 1040, 1043, and 1044, aggregating $95,931.07, as recommended by it, consisting of the following

The President advised the Board that the General Assembly, at its 1960 session, had authorized The Rector and Visitors to borrow funds for the purpose of erecting not exceeding twelve apartment houses to house 120 married students, at a total cost not to exceed one million two hundred thousand dollars and to issue revenue bonds for the repayment of such loan which bonds shall be payable from the revenue derived from rentals. See Acts of Assembly, 1960, Chapter 410.

Pursuant to this authorization a preliminary application had been filed with the Federal Housing and Home Finance Agency for a loan of one million two hundred thousand dollars, under its College Housing Program, for the erection of twelve apartment houses on the property of the University at Charlottesville. The preliminary application was approved by the Agency on 31 October 1961 and the University was advised that a reservation of funds in the amount of one million two hundred thousand dollars had been made.

The University had further been advised that final application with all supporting data must be filed with the Agency not later than 12 February 1962. Among other supporting data to be filed with the Final Application a resolution of the Board authorizing the making of the loan application was required.

The proposed loan for $1,200,000.00 would probably be evidenced by a bond or bonds aggregating that amount bearing interest at the rate of 3-3/8% per annum and would be amortized over a period of 40 years. However, as the first principal payment would not become due until two years after the signing of the loan agreement the loan would be actually amortized over a 38 year period. The annual payment for principal and interest for each $1,000.00 of the loan at 3-3/8% amortized over a period of 38 years would be approzimately $47.09. It was contemplated that the University would pledge the net revenues to be derived from the operation of the proposed facilities as security for the loan.

Subsequent to the filing of the preliminary application above referred to it was ascertained that the terrain of the Copeley Hill property indicated a division into fourteen apartment houses would be more economical than a division into twelve. However, under Chapter 410 of the Acts of Assembly, 1960, the authorization to borrow the necessary funds was "for the purpose of building not exceeding twelve apartment houses to house one hundred twenty married students, at a total cost not to exceed one million two hundred thousand dollars."

It was therefore necessary to obtain an amendment to the 1960 act from the legislature. Fortunately, since the General Assembly was in session, it proved possible, through the cooperation of Lieutenant Governor Godwin and others, to obtain the passage of an emergency act amending Chapter 410 to provide for the erection of fourteen instead of twelve apartment houses. Chapter 410 was not otherwise amended. The new act was signed by Governor Harrison on 8 February, and has been designated as Chapter 5 of the Acts of Assembly, 1962.

The President advised that under Chapter 410 of the Acts of Assembly, 1960, as amended by Chapter 5, Acts of Assembly, 1962, and under the provisions of Title 23, Chapter 3, of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, the University has the power, with the consent of the Governor first obtained, to issue bonds to finance such a project pledging the net revenues to be derived from the operation of the facilities as security.

After careful consideration and full discussion of the proposal, upon motion duly made and seconded, it was

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a corporation created and existing under the laws of the State of Virginia, that Vincent Shea, Comptroller of said body corporate, be and he hereby is, authorized to make, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, final application to the Federal Housing and Home Finance Agency for loan assistance under Title IV of the Housing Act of 1950, in the amount of $1,200,000.00 for the erection of fourteen apartment houses to house 120 married students, on the property of the University at Charlottesville, and to file the same with said Housing and Home Finance Agency.

The President stated that the Accounts Committee of the University of Virginia Hospital had recommended that, in order to expedite the handling of hospital collections, the Board designate someone at the hospital as an authorized agent of the University to sign such legal documents as bankruptcy claims, judgment releases and the like, involving hospital and medical center accounts.

After consideration and full discussion, upon motion, duly seconded, it was,

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, until further action of this Board, the Director of the University of Virginia Hospital, and the Credit Manager of such hospital, either of whom may act, be and they hereby are, authorized and empowered to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, such legal documents as bankruptcy claims, judgment releases and the like, involving hospital and medical center accounts.

The President reported that shortly after the death of Professor Raleigh C. Minor in 1923, a group of his friends established a trust in The Peoples National Bank of Charlottesville, Virginia. The trust instrument provides that the income from the trust be paid to the widow of Professor Raleigh Colston Minor so long as she lives and to her estate six months after her death. The immediate concern of the donors was to be of aid to Mrs. Minor. Consequently, the trust instrument defines income quite broadly as including any stock dividends and any profits derived from the sale of securities in investing and reinvesting the fund. The instrument provides further that any loss shall not be charged against the income of the life tenant. The Trustee is given absolute discretion in making investments and reinvestments.

The trust instrument further provides that six months after the death of Mrs. Raleigh C. Minor, the whole of the principal of the fund then in the hands of the Trustee, shall be delivered by the Trustee to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and that the fund then be used by The Rector and Visitors in the establishment of a memorial to John B. Minor and his son, Raleigh C. Minor. The trust instrument specifies that memorial or memorials are to be of "such character as the said Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia may deem appropriate, it being distinctly understood that no restrictions of any kind are placed upon said Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in this respect."

The President further reported that consultations with Mrs. Minor's two children, Charles Venable Minor and Mrs. Walter Klingman, indicated that each of them was strongly in favor of establishing a scholarship in the School of Law of the University of Virginia to be known as the Raleigh C. Minor Scholarship.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

WHEREAS, on the death of Professor Raleigh C. Minor in 1923 certain of his friends established as a memorial, a trust in The Peoples National Bank of Charlottesville, Virginia, to be administered by the bank as Trustee, the income to be paid to the widow of Professor Raleigh C. Minor for her life and to her estate for six months after her death, and thereafter "the whole of the principal of said fund then in the hands of said Trustee shall be turned over and delivered by said Trustee to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and said fund shall be used by said Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in establishment of a memorial or memorials to the said John Barbee Minor and the said Raleigh Colston Minor, the said memorial or memorials to be of such character as the said Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia may deem appropriate, it being distinctly understood that no restrictions of any kind are placed upon said Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in this respect",

AND WHEREAS Mrs. Raleigh Colston Minor died on 11 November 1961,

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that at the expiration of the six months period from the death of Mrs. Raleigh C. Minor, the whole of the principal of the fund in the hands of the Trustee shall be delivered by the said Trustee to the Comptroller of the University of Virginia to be placed in the general endowment fund of the University of Virginia to be held, managed, invested, and reinvested as a part of that fund, and the pro rata share of the income of that fund allocable to the Minor Memorial Trust shall be made available as of 1 September of each year, for a scholarship or scholarships in the School of Law of the University of Virginia to be known as the Raleigh C. Minor Scholarship or Scholarships. The awards shall be made as directed by the Law Faculty to students of high character and ability and in such amount of the income of the fund as the Law Faculty shall determine.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to establish the Madison-Culpeper Extension Center of the School of General Studies at Madison

Visitor Wilkerson asked that the record show that he had abstained from voting on this proposal because, as a member of the State Council of Higher Education, he would have to pass on this matter at a later date.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to establish the Patrick-Henry Branch of the School of General Studies at Martinsville.

The President reminded the Board of his detailed report at the meeting of the Board on 9 December 1961 concerning the establishment by Mr. John Allan Love, of Clayton, Missouri, of a scholarship fund, with preference being given to students who reside in St. Louis County and St. Louis City, Missouri. Mr. C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel of the University, had visited Mr. Love in Missouri in December 1961 and had prepared a draft of a proposed trust agreement between Mr. Love and The Rector and Visitors. Since Mr. Love desired that the trust agreement be executed prior to his departure for a stay of several months in Florida, the President stated that, on behalf of The Rector and Visitors, he had executed the trust agreement, which carried the date of 11 December 1961. The President asked for confirmation of his action by the Board and therefore proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the action of the President in executing, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors, the Trust Indenture between John Allan Love and The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, dated 11 December 1961, be and it is hereby ratified, approved, and confirmed.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a chair in the School of Medicine to be known as the Henry B. Mulholland Professorship of Medicine.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Henry B. Mulholland be and he is hereby elected Henry B. Mulholland Professor of Medicine at a salary of $500 per month, in addition to his regular compensation, effective 1 March 1962.

The President announced the following gifts and grants

The Chancellor proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College

Mrs. Mary W. Pinschmidt as Instructor in Biology, for one semester, effective 1 February 1962, at a salary of $2,400.

Mr. Sinclair Snow as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one semester, effective 1 February 1962, at a salary of $2,900.

The Chancellor proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following members of the faculty of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby granted leaves of absence

Miss Rosemary Herman, Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, without pay, to do graduate study, on a Danforth Grant, at the University of Wisconsin.

Mr. Thomas L. Johnson, Assistant Professor of Biology, for the 1962-1963 session, with half-pay, to complete work on his doctorate at the University of Virginia.

Mr. Libero M. Renzulli, Jr., Instructor in History, for the 1962-1963 session, without pay, to accept a Research Fellowship from the Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation, Inc., to conduct a study on the political effects of the Italian and German immigration in Argentina.

The Chancellor presented a detailed report on the financial assistance given to students during the 1960-1961 session.

The Chancellor presented a report on the current status of admissions for the 1962-1963 session.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty of George Mason College

Mr. Martin Zwick as Instructor in Engineering Physics, part-time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1962, at a salary of $400.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:15 p.m.