 TEI to HTML

NEW BOARD MEMBERSELECTION OF RECTORELECTION OF MR. COLGATE W. DARDEN, JR. AS PRESIDENT EMERITUSELECTIONSELECTION OF DR. WILLIAM PARSON AS HENRY B. MULHOLLAND PROFESSOR OF MEDICINERE-ELECTIONSPROMOTIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCECHANGES OF TITLECHANGES OF TITLE IN SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCESPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSAPPOINTMENTSPROPOSED FACULTY SALARY SCHEDULESSUCCESSION OF HUGH E. VINCENTDEFICIT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ATHLETICSSTATEMENT OF INSTITUTIONAL PURPOSEASSOCIATED UNIVERSITIES, INC.REPORT ON ACTIONS OF THE 1964 GENERAL ASSEMBLYREPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEEPEABODY HALL ANNEXRESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION TO CLIFTON WALLER BARRETTINQUIRY FROM DELEGATE MIDDLETONMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONSPROMOTIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCECHANGE OF STATUSRETIREMENTRESIGNATIONSAPPOINTMENTREASSIGNMENT OF DUTIESPURCHASE OF SUNKEN ROAD PROPERTYFINANCING THE NEW DORMITORYWAIVER OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANT ON PROPERTYCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSRE-ELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTGEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSRE-ELECTIONSPATRICK HENRY COLLEGE MATTERSPROMOTIONSEASTERN SHORE BRANCH MATTERSFUTURE SITE OF THE EASTERN SHORE BRANCHLYNCHBURG BRANCH MATTERSPROMOTIONMADISON CENTER MATTERSRE-ELECTION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$17,527.12

Free service to counties and cities

64,923.83

Total

$82,450.95

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 10:00 a.m. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors Blanton, Camp, Cross, Faulconer, Fenwick, Hobbs, Johnson, Kendig, Lantor, Lewis, Montague, Parrish, Rogers, Walker, Wilkerson, and Williams Absent: Visitor Kuykendall: Comptroller Vincent Shea was present during the report on the actions of the General Assembly affecting the University. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson was present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters.

The minutes of the meeting of 8 February 1964, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

The Secretary announced the appointment to the Board by the Governor of Mr. J. Sloan Kuykendall of Winchester and Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr. of Newport News to succeed Judge Albert V. Bryan and Dr. Walter B. Martin. He introduced Mrs. Parrish to the Board and announced that Mr. Kuykendall was unavoidably absent.

With the Secretary serving as temporary Chairman and after balloting, Mr. Charles Rogers Fenwick was unanimously elected Rector for the unexpired term of Judge Albert V. Bryan ending on 28 February 1966.

President Shannon entered the room at this point.

The motion was made and seconded by Visitors Blanton, Fenwick, Lantor, and Montague, who had served on the Board while Mr. Darden was President, that the following resolution be adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President of the University of Virginia from 1947 to 1959, be and he is hereby elected President Emeritus of the University of Virginia.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. William F. Beazer as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $8,800.

Mr. Roger H. Clark as Instructor in Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $7,100.

Dr. James O. Davis as Visiting Professor of Physiology, for the period 15 March 1964 through 31 May 1964.

Mr. Harry J. Dell as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $8,400.

Mr. Irvin Ehrenpreis as Professor of English, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $16,600.

Mr. John R. Elliott, Jr. as Visiting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $8,800.

Mr. James W. England as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $7,100.

Mr. Jurgen H. Grefe as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one year, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Charles E. Hamner as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. A. E. Dick Howard as Associate Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Wei F. Huang as Lecturer in Aerospace Engineering, for four months, effective 1 March 1964, at a salary of $1,077.77.

Mr. John P. Kirby as Visiting Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $15,000.

Mr. George Koenig as Assistant Professor of Radiological Technology, for three years, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. Shiv S. Kumar as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mrs. Linda A. Lacey as Junior Instructor in Nursing, for three months, effective 1 May 1964, at an annual salary of $5,400.

Dr. Jan Langman as Professor of Anatomy, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $25,000, of which $4,000 is to be paid from local funds.

Mr. Lyle H. Lanier, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $8,400.

Mr. Edward W. Lanius as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one year, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. David B. Lawall as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $8,400.

Mr. Allan M. Lefer as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $10,000.

Mr. Donald G. Loach as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Peter W. Low as Assistant Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $8,800.

Mr. Daniel R. McMillan, Jr. as Acting Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $9,900.

Mr. Stanislaw J. Makielski, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Political Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $8,400 plus 20 per cent for summer work, or a total salary of $10,080.

Mr. John T. Mayer as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. John F. Mesinger as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $8,400.

Mr. Douglas G. Mook as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $8,400.

Mr. Roger Orkin as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $8,400.

Mr. Roy A. Schotland as Associate Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Larry E. Snyder as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $8,800.

Mr. Edward F. Storm as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $8,400.

Dr. Benjamin C. Sturgill as Instructor in Pathology, for three years, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. Richard J. Sundberg as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Stafford E. Thornton as Lecturer in Civil Engineering, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $1,500.

Mr. Charles A. Vandersee as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. James E. Wesner as Assistant Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $8,800.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. William Parson be and he is hereby elected Henry B. Mulholland Professor of Medicine, effective 18 April 1964, at a salary of $30,000.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:

Mr. Frank W. Banghart as Associate Professor of Biostatistics, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. William P. Buffum, Jr. as Lecturer in Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $9,600.

Miss Miriam Carmichael as Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology, for one year, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. Everett U. Crosby as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Robert L. Ellison as Assistant Professor of Geology, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. George L. Farre as Visiting Associate Professor of Philosophy, for one year, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Bryant C. Freeman as Assistant Professor of French, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $8,800.

Mr. Charles L. Fry as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Thomas A. Gover as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. John Graham as Assistant Professor of Speech and Drama, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Howard L. Hamilton as Professor of Biology, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1964.

Dr. Jerrold E. Hammond as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for one year, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. Paul E. Kelly as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Donald C. Larson as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1964.

Mrs. Alice Leng as Lecturer in Chinese, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $3,450.

Dr. Carl S. Lingamfelter as Clinical Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective 1 July 1964.

Dr. Frederick K. McCune as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Larry N. Mann as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Ronald P. Melnik as Lecturer in Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $7,400.

Dr. Daniel N. Mohler as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1964.

Dr. John H. Parks as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. Eugene Piedmont as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Sociology) in the School of Medicine and Lecturer in Sociology in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. James L. Potts as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Miss Catherine Sturtevant as Lecturer in English, for one year, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. Theodore R. Turner as Assistant Professor of Art, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. David Yu as Assistant Professor of Religion, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Abraham W. Zelomek as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 September 1964.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:

Dr. Harry S. Abram, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 July 1964.

Dr. Miller S. Allen, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Pathology, effective 1 July 1964.

Dr. Stuart H. Bartle, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. Lester A. Beaurline, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of English, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. David M. Bevington, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of English, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $9,900.

Mr. Robert V. Coleman, Associate Professor, to Professor of Physics, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. David H. Davis, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Music, effective 1 September 1964.

Dr. John S. Davis, IV, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. James M. Ferguson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $10,900, of which $1,000 is to be paid from local funds.

Dr. Eugene A. Foster, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Pathology, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. Lawrence D. Gaughan, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $8,800.

Dr. Guy M. Harbert, Jr., Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. Waverly E. Hester, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Dr. Thomas R. Johns, Associate Professor, to Professor of Neurology, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. Robert L. Kellogg, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of English, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $10,400.

Dr. Julian I. Kitay, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. Hiram G. Larew, Associate Professor, to Professor of Civil Engineering, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Stephen J. Manning, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of English, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Nathaniel F. G. Martin, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Edward A. Mearns, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $12,600.

Mr. Rouhollah K. Ramazani, Associate Professor, to Professor of Foreign Affairs, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Rogers C. Ritter, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physics, effective 1 September 1964.

Miss Linda D. Robinson, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. William R. Robinson, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Charles F. Sargent, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Business Administration, for five years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Clyde R. Smith, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Wesley A. Volk, Associate Professor, to Professor of Microbiology, effective 1 July 1964.

Dr. Vamik Volkan, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. Walter J. Wadlington, III, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $12,600.

Mr. William Watson, Visiting Associate Professor, to Professor of Sociology, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $13,400.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:

Mr. Joseph N. Bosserman, Associate Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 July 1964, without pay, to lecture at the School of Architecture at Stuttgart, Germany.

Miss Vera R. Brand, Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective 1 July 1964, without pay, to complete the requirements for her doctorate in the School of Education at the University of Virginia.

Mr. James M. Buchanan, Paul G. McIntire Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective 1 February 1965, without pay, to complete research supported by a three-year grant from the Brookings Institution.

Mr. Rowland A. Egger, Professor of Political Science and Edward R. Stettinius Professor of Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, without pay, to teach at Princeton University.

Mr. Irvin Ehrenpreis, Professor of English, for one semester, effective 1 September 1964, without pay, to complete commitments with Indiana University before coming to the University.

Mr. Larry N. Mann, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, without pay, to engage in research in mathematics at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, New Jersey.

Mr. Lambert Molyneaux, Associate Professor of Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, without pay, to become Visiting Professor of Sociology at the New Orleans Branch of Louisiana State University.

Mr. Kenneth R. Redden, Professor of Law, for two years, effective 1 September 1964, without pay, to make a survey of the legal profession in Ethiopia and to make a report on how it might be strengthened; also to assist in the establishment of a local law school and legal research institute in Ethiopia.

Mr. Jin-Chen Su, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, without pay, to engage in research in mathematics at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, New Jersey.

Mr. David E. Underdown, Associate Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, without pay, to accept a Guggenheim Fellowship.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:

Mr. Ralph C. Bralley, from Lecturer in Speech Pathology and Audiology, to Assistant Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Thomas G. Hereford, from Associate Professor of English, to Associate Professor of Humanities, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $11,400.

Mr. Richard L. Jennings, from Acting Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, to Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Eugene N. Lane, from Acting Assistant Professor of Classics, to Assistant Professor of Classics, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Kenneth R. Lawless, from Acting Associate Professor of Materials Science, to Associate Professor of Materials Science, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $9,900.

Mr. David W. Lewis, from Acting Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Bryan R. Noton, from Visiting Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, to Acting Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1964.

Dr. James E. Wood, III, from Research Professor of Medicine and Cardiology, to Professor of Medicine and Research Professor of Cardiology, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. William Zuk, from Professor of Civil Engineering, to Professor of Architecture, effective 1 September 1964.

The President announced that, effective 1 July 1964, the name of the Division of English in the School of Engineering and Applied Science will be changed to the Division of Humanities. The President also announced that, effective 1 July 1964, the name of the Division of Mathematics in the School of Engineering and Applied Science will be changed to the Department of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science.

In order that the necessary changes may be made in the titles of the faculty members affected, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:

Mr. Melvin W. Aylor, from Associate Professor of Mathematics, to Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Omer A. Gianniny, Jr., from Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of Humanities, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. John L. Longley, from Associate Professor of English, to Associate Professor of Humanities, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Wendell E. Malbon, from Associate Professor of Mathematics, to Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Walter B. Moore, III, from Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of Humanities, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Robert H. Owens, from Professor of Applied Mathematics, to Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Philip H. Ryan, from Associate Professor of Mathematics, to Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Joseph L. Vaughan, from Professor of English, to Professor of Humanities, effective 1 September 1964.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

Mr. Thomas M. Boyd, Professor of Law, at a session salary of $16,600, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Avery Catlin, Associate Professor of Materials Science, at a session salary of $10,400, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Robert T. Denomme, Assistant Professor of French, at a session salary of $8,800, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Charles O. Gregory, Professor of Law, at a session salary of $17,400, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Assistant Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of $9,200, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Frank S. Kaulback, Jr., Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of $15,000 plus $1,000 for administrative duties, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. A. Robert Kuhlthau, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of $15,000, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Ralph A. Lowry, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of $11,900, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. John C. McCoid, II, Professor of Law, at a session salary of $12,600, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Carl McFarland, Professor of Law, at a session salary of $16,600, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Eugene S. McVey, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of $11,400, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. George B. Matthews, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of $10,900, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Daniel Meador, Professor of Law, at a session salary of $15,800, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Donald H. Miller, Assistant Professor of Architecture, at a salary of $375, for administrative duties, for one semester, effective 1 February 1964.

Mr. Emerson G. Spies, Professor of Law, at a session salary of $16,600 plus $1,500 for administrative duties, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Thomas G. Williamson, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, at a session salary of $10,400 plus 20 per cent for summer work, effective 1 September 1964.

The following resignations were announced:

Mr. Edwin W. Arnold, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective 30 June 1964, to enter industry.

Mr. Frederick W. Battig, Associate Professor of Psychology, effective 30 June 1964, to accept a position at the University of Maryland.

Mr. L. Ronald Coase, Professor of Economics, effective 30 June 1964, to accept a position at the University of Chicago.

Mr. M. Lindsey Cowen, Professor of Law, effective 30 June 1964, to accept the position of Dean of the School of Law at the University of Georgia.

Mr. Robert N. Ganz, Jr., Assistant Professor of English, effective 30 June 1964, to accept a position at George Washington University.

Mr. John L. Ging, Lecturer in Aerospace Engineering, effective 29 February 1964.

Mr. Benjamin B. Graves, Associate Professor of Commerce, effective 30 June 1964, to accept the Chair of Industrial Economics at the University of Mississippi.

Dr. Thomas H. Hunter, Dean of the School of Medicine, effective 24 March 1964.

Miss Elise Michael, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective 1 September 1964, to enroll in the doctoral program at Western Reserve University.

Mr. Charles R. Milton, Assistant Professor of Commerce, effective 30 June 1964, to accept a position at the University of South Carolina.

Mr. Harold A. O'Hern, Jr., Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective 30 June 1964, to enter industry.

Miss Helen B. Plummer, Associate Professor of Nursing, effective 1 July 1964, for personal reasons.

Mr. Robert E. Scholes, Assistant Professor of English, effective 31 January 1964, to accept a position at Iowa State University.

Mr. John M. Slepetz, Lecturer in Aerospace Engineering, effective 31 January 1964, whose services are not required for teaching during the second semester.

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, the following appointment was announced:

Colonel John S. Hudson as Professor of Naval Science, effective 7 September 1964, at no salary from the University.

Also, the following appointments were announced:

Miss Zula M. Baber as Acting Dean of the School of Nursing, for the period 1 August 1964 through 30 June 1965.

Dr. Kenneth R. Crispell as Dean of the School of Medicine, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. Paul T. David as Chairman of the Department of Political Science and Chairman of the Woodrow Wilson Department of Foreign Affairs, for five years, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. Roger C. Davis as Acting Assistant Dean of the School of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. Charles E. Hamner as Director of the Vivarium, for three years, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. John F. Harlan, Jr. as Acting Assistant Director of the Medical Center and Acting Director, University Hospital, for one year, effective 1 July 1964.

Colonel John S. Hudson as Chairman of the Department of Naval Science, effective 7 September 1964.

Dr. Thomas H. Hunter as Chancellor for Medical Affairs, effective 1 July 1964.

Dr. Jan Langman as Chairman of the Department of Anatomy, effective 1 September 1964.

Dr. George R. Minor as Assistant Dean of the School of Medicine, for one year, effective 1 July 1964.

Mr. Robert H. Owens as Chairman of the Department of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. John M. Stacey as Director of the Medical Center, effective 1 July 1964.

The president reported on the current status of the planning of the new faculty salary schedules. He stated that the new schedules would be presented to the Board for its consideration at the June meeting.

The President reminded the Board of its action taken at the meeting on 18 October 1963 (Minutes, Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, No. 12, 18 October 1963, p. 416), ratifying and approving the action of the Honorable Wayne G. Borah in executing on behalf of the University of Virginia, an agreement, dated 24 September 1963, with Prairie Gas Corporation which provided that Prairie Gas Corporation shall pay the sum of $27,333.40 before laying a pipeline in certain properties in which the University of Virginia has an interest under the Will of the late Hugh E. Vincent, such pipeline to be laid within six months from the date of such agreement.

The President reported that Judge Borah, on behalf of the University of Virginia, had united in a Supplemental Agreement, together with The Administrators of the Tulane Educational Fund, Trinity Church, Mildred Saffold Vincent and Frank B. Hayne, Jr., dated 25 February 1964, granting Prairie Gas Corporation an extension of time under the Agreement of 24 September 1963, from 24 March 1964 to 31 December 1964, the consideration for such extension being payment in cash by Prairie of the sum of $5,466.68 as an advance payment of part of said $27,333.40. Such Supplemental Agreement of 25 February 1964 further provided that, in the event the remainder of said sum amounting to $21,866.72 is not paid prior to 31 December 1964, the Agreement of 24 September 1963 and this Supplemental Agreement shall become null and void and Prairie shall forfeit all sums theretofore paid.

A photographic copy of the Supplemental Agreement was then presented to the Board for consideration, and the President requested that, if the Board approved Judge Borah's action, a resolution to that effect be adopted.

After discussion, upon motion duly made and seconded, the following resolution was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED, that the action of the Honorable Wayne G. Borah, in executing on behalf of the University of Virginia, the Supplemental Agreement dated 25 February 1964, granting an extension of time to Prairie Gas Corporation to 31 December 1964, for performance under Agreement dated 24 September 1963 between Prairie Gas Corporation and Frank B. Hayne, Jr., and others, be and the same is hereby ratified and approved.

The President reported on the need for the Board to authorize a deficit not to exceed $47,500 for the Department of Athletics for the fiscal year ending on 30 June 1964. During his report he noted the improvements in the financial condition of the Department that had occurred during the current fiscal year. He stated further that the deficit authorization had been approved for submission to the full Board by the Finance Committee and the Athletics Committee at a joint meeting on 17 April 1964.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to incur a deficit not to exceed $47,500 for the Department of Athletics for the fiscal year ending on 30 June 1964.

The President reported on the status of the Self-Study of the University which was endorsed by the Board at its meeting on 29 September 1962 (Minutes, Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, No. 12, 29 September 1962, p. 363) and which is required by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools to be made every 10 years. One of the requirements of the Self-Study is a statement of institutional purpose bearing the approval of the Board of Visitors. The President presented for discussion a statement of institutional purpose which had been prepared by the Steering Committee for the Self-Study and which bore the President's approval. The President reported that he was presenting this statement with the understanding that the University Senate would also be called upon for its approval at a later date.

After considerable discussion, the Board deferred formal action on the proposal and asked the President to resubmit the statement to the Steering Committee with the suggestion that (1) the opening sentence of the statement be amended by adding the word "free" before inquiry in order that the sentence might read as follows: "A university is a community of scholars having as its central purpose the enrichment of the human mind by stimulating and sustaining a spirit of free inquiry directed to an understanding of the nature of the universe and man's role in it"; and (2) the Steering Committee consider the expansion of the activities designed to support the central purpose of the University to include the development of honor among men and of gentlemenly conduct.

The President was authorized by the Board to seek action from the Executive Committee on the revised statement if action were needed before the June meeting. Otherwise, the statement will be brought back to the Board at the June meeting for further consideration.

The President reported on the recent decision of Associated Universities, Inc., to transfer the majority of their scientists to residence in Charlottesville with headquarters on the Grounds.

The President reported in detail on the actions of the 1964 General Assembly affecting the University.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1200, 1201, 1204, and 1205, aggregating $82,450.95, as recommended by it, consisting of the following:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the building which was formerly occupied by the Department of Biology shall be known as the Peabody Hall Annex.

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has been deeply gratified, both corporately and individually, by the recent splendid gifts of Mr. C. Waller Barrett, and,

WHEREAS the General Assembly of Virginia at its recent session unanimously reaffirmed in golden terms the sentiments first expressed by this Board in its resolution of 10 June 1960 (Minutes, Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, No. 12, 10 June 1960, pp. 222-223) with respect to the continuing generosity of Mr. Barrett in his gifts to the University of Virginia Library,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a copy of Senate Joint Resolution No. 46 of the Virginia General Assembly of 1964 be hereby spread upon our minutes, with sentiments of our own concurrence, approbation, and gratification, as follows:

Whereas, Mr. Clifton Waller Barrett, a citizen of Virginia, has seen fit to establish in the University of this Commonwealth, for the benefit of scholarship and the admiration of all enlightened people, a Library of American Literature that is unparalleled in the collecting annuals of this or any other country, and

Whereas, this library takes as its province 175 years of American literature (the years from 1775 to 1950), and contains substantially all fiction, poetry, drama, and essays published by an American through 1875, and for the remaining years, contains a virtually complete collection of works of every major American writer, with first and important later editions as well as manuscripts, to the extent of hundreds of thousands of separate pieces of lasting significance to the American heritage, and

Whereas, this gift stands as a beacon and symbol for all the devoted collectors who have made and are making the libraries of this Commonwealth great, and

Whereas, so noble and generous an act deserves the commendation due it, now, therefore, be it

Resolved by the Senate of Virginia, the House of Delegates concurring, That the General Assembly of Virginia salutes Clifton Waller Barrett for his generous and unique contribution to the advancement of scholarship in this Commonwealth.

Resolved, further, that the clerk of the Senate send a suitably prepared copy of this expression of appreciation to Mr. Barrett as a token of the admiration, affection, and respect with which he is regarded by his fellow citizens.

AND RESOLVED FURTHER that the Secretary convey a copy of this resolution to Mr. Barrett with expressions of our individual love and friendship.

The President reported that he had received an inquiry from Delegate Richard H. Middleton as to the future possibility of the admission of females from Charlottesville and Albemarle County directly from high school to the first undergraduate year at the University at Charlottesville. The President stated that he had written Delegate Middleton informing him that, since the School of Education, as of September 1964, would no longer admit undergraduate students to its program who had not previously completed 60 hours of work in the liberal arts, there is no longer any possibility of a girl entering the School of Education directly from high school. He stated he had also informed Delegate Middleton that the Board of Visitors has been quite strict in not allowing women to enter the College of Arts and Sciences at Charlottesville since Mary Washington College is the women's college of arts and sciences. The President stated he had informed Delegate Middleton that his inquiry would be called to the Board's attention to see if the Board desired to make any change in existing policy. The Board declined to act and ordered the report to be filed.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. John Bruckner as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (German), for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $5,600.

Miss Anne M. Case as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $5,600.

Mr. Robert J. Dilligan as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $5,600.

Mr. Robert B. Jessen as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $7,100.

Miss Suzanne Pharr as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $5,900.

Mr. Richard L. Sarchet as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $6,500.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:

Mr. Robert M. Armstrong as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $6,200.

Miss Anna M. Athanason as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $6,200.

Mr. Joseph Bozicevic as Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Russian), for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $7,400.

Mrs. Cartha B. Bragg as Instructor in Art, half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $3,100.

Mrs. Ana D. de Amador as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $6,200.

Mr. Gilbert De Simone as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $6,200.

Mr. John Druzbick as Instructor in Physics, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $3,550.

Mrs. Margaret S. Early as Instructor in English, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a base salary of $6,200, the exact compensation to be determined by the number of classes taught.

Mr. Donald E. Glover as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $6,200.

Miss Mary R. Griffin as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $6,200.

Miss Anne F. Henderson as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $6,200.

Mr. Mathew Herban, III as Instructor in Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $5,600.

Mrs. Margaret M. Hofmann as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $6,200.

Mrs. Catherine H. Hook as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $7,100.

Mr. Michael Houston as Assistant Professor of English (Journalism), for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $8,880.

Mrs. Mildred C. Jamison as Assistant Professor of Home Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $7,400.

Mr. Roger L. Kenvin as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $7,400.

Mr. Michael Kirschner as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $6,200.

Mr. A. Ray Merchent as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $8,880.

Miss Giuliana Metti as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Italian), for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $5,600.

Miss Katherine F. Moran as Assistant Professor of Dramatic Arts and Speech, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $8,880.

Mr. R. Bryan Nicholas as Instructor in History and Political Science, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $6,200.

Miss Carmen L. Rivera as Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $7,100.

Miss Cornelia D. Sarvay as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $5,600.

Mr. Duane P. Schultz as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $7,400.

Miss Katharine F. Wells as Visiting Associate Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $4,250.

Mr. Lawrence A. Wishner as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $7,400.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:

Mr. Lewis P. Fickett, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Acting Associate Professor of History and Political Science, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $7,700.

Mr. Edward D. Lowry, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of English, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $7,700.

Mr. J. Russell Nazzaro, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $7,700.

Miss Mary Ellen Stephenson, Associate Professor, to Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $10,920.

Mr. Raiford E. Sumner, Associate Professor, to Professor of History and Political Science, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $8,700.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:

Miss Lia Beretta, Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Italian), for one year, effective 1 September 1964, without pay, to continue her study in the field of Italian literature in Italy.

Mr. J. Russell Nazzaro, Associate Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, without pay, to accept a Fulbright grant to Brazil to assist in establishing a Department of Psychology at the University of Brasilia.

Mr. Alan S. Peirce, Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, without pay, to participate in the U.S.-Indian Women's Colleges Exchange Program, in India.

Miss Lois J. Reid, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, without pay, to continue her studies toward the Ph.D. degree at Duke University.

Mr. Glen R. Thomas, Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, with half pay, to accept a Fellowship at the Graduate Institute of Liberal Arts at Emory University to complete the seminar requirements for the Ph.D. degree.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following change of status be and it is hereby made:

Mrs. Josefa Rivas McIntosh, from Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), full time, at a salary of $6,800, to Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), half time, for three years, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $3,400.

The following retirement was announced:

Mr. Robert F. Caverlee, Assistant Professor of Biblical Literature, part time, effective 30 June 1964. Mr. Caverlee has been a part-time member of the faculty since 1934.

The following resignations were announced:

Mr. Gaetano Cecere, Associate Professor of Art, effective 30 June 1964.

Miss Ruth F. Necheles, Assistant Professor of History and Political Science, effective 30 June 1964, to accept a position at Long Island University.

Mr. Robert H. Puckett, Assistant Professor of History and Political Science, effective 30 June 1964, to continue his research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Mrs. Winnifred M. Nielsen, Assistant Professor of Psychology, effective 30 June 1964, to continue her post-doctoral research in the Para-psychology Laboratory at Duke University.

The following appointment was announced:

Mr. Philip L. Shew as Acting Chairman of the Department of Education, from 1 June 1964 through 31 May 1965.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following reassignment of duties be and it is hereby made:

Miss Marion A. Greene, Associate Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a salary of $7,500, to be reassigned to a position in France, in performance of duties under the supervision of the Professor-in-Charge of the Sweet Briar Junior Year in France, in order to gain greater proficiency in the current usage of the French language in its native environment. Mary Washington College will be reimbursed by the Sweet Briar Junior Year in France for the salary paid to Miss Greene.

The Chancellor reported that the purchase of the property on Sunken Road for $17,500 had been completed. This sum plus the cost for closing the transaction had been provided by the Governor from his special fund for land purchases.

The Chancellor reported on the method of financing the cost of constructing the new dormitory. He stated he would bring in a request for a special bond issue to finance a part of the cost at a later date.

The Chancellor advised the Board that the authorities of Mary Washington College had been requested by the Fredericksburg Aqueduct Company, owner of a parcel of real estate situated on the south side of William Street, in the City of Fredericksburg, Virginia, across from lands owned by the College, to waive or consent to modify a restrictive covenant applicable to the property of the Fredericksburg Aqueduct Company, to the effect that there shall not be constructed thereon any buildings or structures other than buildings for residential purposes. The College authorities have been informed by the Fredericksburg Aqueduct Company that it desires such waiver or modification to allow the erection of apartment buildings on such property. The College authorities are willing to allow this use of the property owned by the Fredericksburg Aqueduct Company.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized, and empowered to execute, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a waiver or consent to modification of the restrictive convenant applicable to the property of the Fredericksburg Aqueduct Company situated on the south side of William Street, in the City of Fredericksburg, Virginia, across from lands owned by Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, to allow the erection of apartment buildings on such property, substantially in accord with plans and specifications to be approved by the Chancellor and the President, and that the Secretary of this Board be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to affix the corporate seal of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia thereto and to attest the same, provided, however, that no such waiver or consent to modification be executed unless and until such instrument shall have first received the approval of the Special Counsel for The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, both as to form and as to substance.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:

Mr. Stanley H. Botts as Assistant Professor of Commerce, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Richard O. Hays as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Daniel E. Richardson as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Thomas D. Robinson as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Kenneth B. Wheeler as Assistant Professor of Physical Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1964.

The following appointment was announced:

Mrs. Lillian B. Wagman as Librarian, effective 1 July 1964.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:

Mrs. Yveline K. Bretschneider as Assistant Professor of French, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mrs. Fanny-Fern Davis as Associate Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Hyman I Feinstein as Associate Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:

Mr. Nathaniel V. Daniel, Jr., Instructor, to Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Miss Gabrielle M. Roy, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Romance Languages, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

The President reported on the desirability of acquiring a parcel of land amounting to approximately 150 acres in Accomack County owned by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration as a future site for the Eastern Shore Branch of the School of General Studies. The parcel, known as the Toms Cove Apartments, is located adjacent to the Wallops Station of NASA. The first step in procuring the property is the passage of a resolution by the Board informing the United States Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare that the property is needed for educational purposes. Accordingly, the following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, certain real property owned by the United States, located in the County of Accomack, State of Virginia, probably will be declared surplus and subject to assignment for disposal for educational or public health purposes by the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, under the provisions of Section 203(k) (1) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (63 Stat. 377), as amended, and rules and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, more particularly described as follows: that real property of 152 73 acres and improvements located thereon, known as the Toms Cove Apartments, and located adjacent to the Wallops Station of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in Accomack County, Virginia, and.

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia needs and can utilize said property for educational purposes in accordance with the requirements of said Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University of Virginia shall make application to the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare for and secure the transfer to it of the above-mentioned property for said use upon and subject to such exceptions, reservations, terms, covenants, agreements, conditions, and restrictions as the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, or his authorized representative, may require in connection with the disposal of said property under said Act and the rules and regulations issued pursuant thereto, and.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the University of Virginia has legal authority, is willing and is in a position to assume immediate care and maintenance of the property, and that Vincent Shea, Comptroller, be and he is hereby authorized, for and on behalf of the University of Virginia, to do and perform any and all acts and things which may be necessary to carry out the foregoing resolution, including the preparing, making, and filing of plans, applications, reports, and other documents, the execution, acceptance, delivery, and recordation of agreements, deeds, and other instruments pertaining to the transfer of said property, and the payment of any and all sums necessary on account of the purchase price thereof or on account of fees or costs incurred in connection with the transfer of said property for surveys, title searches, appraisals, recordation of instruments, or escrow costs.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:

Mr. Benjamin W. Wright, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected to the faculty:

Mrs. Lucille E. Whyburn as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1964.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:00 p.m.