 TEI to HTML

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 13 October 1967
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on 13 October 1967 at Minor Hall in the Conference Room of the Institute of Government at Charlottesville with the following members present: Rector Frank W. Rogers; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Birdsong, Brown, Cross, Faulconer, Johnson, Kendig, Kuykendall, Parrish, Potter, Walker, and Williams. Visitors absent: A. S. Harrison, Jr., J. Hartwell Harrison, Lewis, and Wilkinson. Grellet C. Simpson, Edgar E. Woodward, and Michael Houston were present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters. Lorin A. Thompson, J. C. Smiddy, Vincent Shea, William A. Hobbs, and Ray C. Hunt, Jr. were present during the report on the University's biennial budget request.

The minutes of the meeting of 2 June 1967, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. William B. Bean as Visiting Professor of Medicine and of the History of Medicine, for the period 1 February 1968 through 31 July 1968, at a salary of .Mr. Rolf H. Benzinger as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of Miss Ruth E. Brong as Associate Professor of Nursing, effective 1 October 1967, at an annual salary of .Mr. James D. Bryden as Lecturer in Speech Pathology and Audiology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Miss Analie J. Buchler as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 11 September 1967, at an annual salary of .Mr. Andrew Buni as Lecturer in History, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Michael B. Burke as Acting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert T. Canevari as Lecturer in Physical Education, for one year, effective 1 August 1967, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work and for administrative duties, or a total salary of Mr. Mortimer M. Caplin as Visiting Professor of Law, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Mr. Anthony Churchman as Junior Instructor in English, two-sevenths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Alton K. Clement as Assistant Professor of City Planning, School of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Miss Anne P. Cobb as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. John L. Colley, Jr. as Professor of Business Administration, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. George I. Coulbourn, Jr. as Acting Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. James A. D. Cox as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. George A. L. David as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Dr. Elia C. Dimitri as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of Mr. Alberto P. diPierro as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. L. Emmett Elledge as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Clinical Psychology), for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of Mr. Ernest L. Folk, III as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Mr. Lawrence D. Gaughan as Lecturer in Law, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1967, at a salary of Mr. Adrian R. L. Gear as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of Mr. Eo D. Gerlings as Visiting Assistant Professor of Physiology, for one year, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of Mr. James F. Gordon as Junior Instructor in English, two-sevenths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Richard C. Greulich as Visiting Professor of Anatomy, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Jeffrey T. Gross as Junior Instructor in English, three-sevenths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Walter K. Hanak as Lecturer in History, and as Slavic Bibliographer, for one year, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of Mr. Ronald M. Hartwell as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of Mr. Albert W. Hawkins as Visiting Professor of Chemical Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. James E. Herget as Instructor in Law, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mrs. Eliana C. Hermann as Junior Instructor in Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Zoran Hodjera as Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Alexander B. Horniman as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three years, effective 1 December 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Ching-Hsien Huang as Visiting Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of Mr. Ira D. Jacobson as Lecturer in Aerospace Engineering, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Nathan E. Johnson as Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of Mrs. Pilar M. Johnson as Junior Instructor in Spanish, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Jerome E. Kaufman as Junior Instructor in Education, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Roman Kolkowicz as Visiting Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Dr. John B. Lange as Lecturer in Preventive Medicine, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. John C. Levy as Instructor in Law, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Paul F. McGouldrick as Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, one-half time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1967, at a salary of Dr. Donald C. McLean as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Instructor in Internal Medicine (Pediatric Allergy), for one year, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of Mr. Jeffrey B. Morton as Lecturer in Aerospace Engineering, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Miss Mona L. Moughton as Associate Professor of Nursing, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Mrs. Gertrude M. Neis as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Clinical Psychology), for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of Mr. Robert W. Newell as Lecturer in Philosophy, for one semester, effective 1 September 1967, at a salary of Mr. Akiya Ookawa as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Dr. Elsa P. Paulsen as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective 1 May 1968, at an annual salary of Dr. William B. Pollard as Lecturer in Preventive Medicine, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. David Powell as Visiting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Miss Claude Pradier as Junior Instructor in French, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Dr. Hans O. Riddervold as Visiting Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective 20 November 1967, at an annual salary of Dr. Frank M. Ripberger as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. James A. Roberts as Visiting Associate Professor of Geography, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Henry Rose as Lecturer in Law, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Mr. William T. Ross as Junior Instructor in English, four-sevenths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Reynold M. Sachs as Lecturer in Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Mario I. Sama as Assistant Professor of City Planning, School of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Dr. Franz Schubert as Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Raphael Sherfy as Lecturer in Law, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1967, at a salary of Mr. W. Cullen Sherwood as Assistant Professor of Geology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mrs. Marija M. Shoup as Junior Instructor in Serbian-Croatian Language, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Dr. Albert W. Sparrow as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and of Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of Mr. Roger W. Spencer as Junior Instructor in Economics, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. William W. Sweeney as Lecturer in Law, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1967, at a salary of Mrs. Ann G. Taylor as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 January 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Joseph F. Thomas, Jr. as Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 November 1967, at a session salary of Dr. Edward G. Thompson as Lecturer in Otolaryngology, for the period 1 October 1967 through 30 June 1968.Mr. Fred Vallianos as Junior Instructor in Education, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Robert L. Van de Castle as Professor of Psychiatry (clinical Psychology), effective 15 August 1967, at an annual salary of Mr. Peter C. van den Toorn as Instructor in Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mrs. Katharine A. Victor as Junior Instructor in Chemistry, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Lev Zetlin as University Professor of Architecture and of Civil Engineering, effective 1 February 1968, at a session salary of

ELECTION OF SCHOLAR-IN-RESIDENCE
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Sir John Wheeler-Bennett, be and he is hereby elected as Scholar-in-Residence in Law, Government, and History, for one semester, effective 1 September 1967, at a salary of

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF DR. ERNST O. ATTINGER
-------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Dr. Ernst O. Attinger as Professor of Physiology and of Biomedical Engineering, effective 1 July 1967, as approved by the Board on 18 February 1967, be and it is hereby changed to 1 September 1967.

CHANGE IN TERM OF ELECTION OF MR. EUGENE J. WILHELM, JR.
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the term of the election of Mr. Eugene J. Wilhelm, Jr., as Lecturer in Geography, as approved by the Board on 2 June 1967, be changed from one-half time, for one year, to full time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.

ELECTION OF DR. DAVID R. HAWKINS as ALUMNI PROFESSOR OF PSYCHIATRY
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. David R. Hawkins be and he is hereby elected Alumni Professor of Psychiatry, effective 15 August 1967, at an annual salary of

ELECTION OF MR. MONRAD G. PAULSEN as JOHN B. MINOR PROFESSOR OF LAW
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Monrad G. Paulsen be and he is hereby elected as John B. Minor Professor of Law, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of

CARY D. LANGHORNE PROFESSORSHIP IN ARCHITECTURE
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Architecture to be known as the Cary D. Langhorne Professorship in Architecture, effective 1 September 1967.

ELECTION OF MR. FREDERICK D. NICHOLS as CARY D. LANGHORNE PROFESSOR OF ARCHITECTURE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Frederick D. Nichols be and he is hereby elected Cary D. Langhorne Professor of Architecture, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Dr. Phillip M. Allen as Assistant Professor of Clinical Pathology, one-half time, for the period 1 November 1967 through 30 June 1970, at an annual salary of Mr. William A. Elwood as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Charles L. Fry as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Howard L. Hamilton as Professor of Biology, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Dr. James T. Hamlin, III as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of Mr. Burke M. Smith as Associate Professor of Psychiatry (Clinical Psychology), for the period 1 January 1968 through 30 June 1970, at an annual salary of Dr. Yung H. Son as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for the period 1 January 1968 through 30 June 1970, at an annual salary of Dr. Edward C. Wilson as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period 1 January 1968 through 30 June 1971, at an annual salary of

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Dr. Jay Y. Gillenwater, Assistant Professor, to Professor of Urology, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of Mr. Russell N. Grimes, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Dr. William B. Hunt, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of Dr. Calvin M. Kunin, Associate Professor, to Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, effective 15 September 1967, at an annual salary of .Mr. DeForest Mellon, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Biology, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Mary B. Sturdivant, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of Mr. H. Kenneth White, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Architecture, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Robert K. Wild, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Dr. Arthur W. Wyker, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Urology, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Dr. Stuart H. Bartle, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and of Surgery, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to enter the psychiatry training program at the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.Dr. Richard E. Clark, Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective 1 July 1967, without pay, to serve in the Armed Forces.Mr. Thomas K. Fitz Patrick, Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, without pay, to carry out research under a Health, Education, and Welfare Fellowship.Dr. Richard W. Lindsay, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for two years, effective 15 September 1967, without pay, to fulfill his military obligations.Mr. Aaron Morrell, Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, for one semester, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, in order to recover from injuries sustained in an automobile accident.Dr. Elsa P. Paulsen, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for the period 1 May 1968 through 30 June 1969, without pay, to continue education at the Rockefeller Institute.Mr. Rouhollah K. Ramazani, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to carry out research on Iran as the Aga Khan Professor of Islamic Studies at the American University of Beirut, Lebanon.Mr. Roger L. Ransom, Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to serve as a visiting lecturer at the University of California, Berkeley.Mr. Leland B. Yeager, Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to carry out research under a Ford Foundation Grant.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Floyd D. Anderson, from Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, to Assistant Professor of Speech, for two years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Harry T. Antrim, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for two years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. John Boring, from Lecturer in Aerospace Engineering, to Associate Professor of Engineering Physics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Jackie O. Bunting, from Acting Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, to Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Ronald E. Clapper, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Milton H. Donaldson, from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and of Surgery, for the period 1 October 1967 through 30 June 1969.Mr. Alistair M. Duckworth, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Kenneth G. Elzinga, from Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. George L. Falkenhagen, from Assistant Professor of Engineering Drawing, to Lecturer in Engineering Drawing, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Charles E. Hamner, Jr., from Associate Professor of Surgery, to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of .Dr. Hector J. Hermann, from Assistant Professor of Surgical Cardiology, to Assistant Professor of Surgical Cardiology and of Internal Medicine, for the period 1 October 1967 through 30 June 1970, at an annual salary of Mr. William H. Kaven, from Assistant Professor of Commerce, to Assistant Professor of Commerce and Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Gary H. Lindberg, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. James F. Loucks, II, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. K. L. Seshagiri Rao, from Acting Assistant Professor of Religion, to Visiting Assistant Professor of Religion, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Otis L. Updike, Jr., from Professor of Chemical Engineering, to Professor of Chemical Engineering and of Biomedical Engineering, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Hernon Vidal, from Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, to Assistant Professor of Spanish, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. James A. Arnold, Acting Assistant Professor of French, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Nuzhet O. Atuk, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Alan P. Batson, Professor of Computer Science, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. James D. Beaber, Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Richard L. Beard, Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Lester A. Beaurline, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., Professor, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Associate Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Joseph L. Blotner, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Neil H. Borden, Jr., Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. J. Norwood Bosserman, Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administration duties, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Alfred Burger, Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Bernard W. Busse, Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Martha A. Carpenter, Assistant Professor of Surgical Cardiology and of Pediatrics, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Joseph M. Carriere, Professor of French, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Irby B. Cauthen, Jr., Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mrs. Lillie O. Chang, Assistant Professor of Radiology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Almand R. Coleman, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Robert V. Coleman, Professor of Physics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Marvin L. Colker, Professor of Classics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Richard J. Coughlin, Professor of Sociology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Charles L. Crockett, Jr., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Thomas I. Crowell, Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Byard S. Deputy, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Dentistry), at an annual salary of effective 1 June 1967.Mr. Paul S. Dulaney, Associate Professor of City Planning, School of Architecture, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Glen L. Dunlap, Lecturer in Business Administration, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. William L. Duren, Jr., University Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Raymond S. Edmundson, Professor of Geology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Robert R. Fair, Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Thomas K. Fitz Patrick, Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. John D. Forbes, Professor of Business History, Graduate School of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Clifford H. Fox, Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, and of Pathology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Johan A. Friedericy, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Paul M. Gaston, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Charles N. Gaylord, Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Eelco D. Gerlings, Visiting Assistant Professor of Physiology, at an annual salary of effective 1 October 1967.Mr. Joseph E. Gibson, Associate Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Samuel J. Goldstein, Associate Professor of Astronomy, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Walter Greiner, Professor of Physics, at an annual salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Paul M. Hammaker, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Lewis M. Hammond, Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Thomas T. Hammond, Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. William H. Harbaugh, Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Orville R. Harris, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. F. Russell Hart, Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. E. Donald Hirsch, Jr., Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. George W. Holmes, III, Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Ladley Husted, Professor of Biology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Richard L. Jennings, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Lee R. Johnston, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Morris W. Jones, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Matthias E. Kayhoe, Associate Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Robert L. Kellogg, Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. James L. Kelly, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Henry L. Kinnier, Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Arthur Kirsch, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Edward A. Kolodziej, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Hugh S. Landes, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Francis G. Lankford, Jr., Professor of Education, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Shao-Chuan Leng, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. David W. Lewis, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. William A. Little, Professor of German, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. John L. Longley, Jr., Associate Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Peter W. Low, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of plus for administrative duties for one year, or a total salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. William C. Lowry, Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mrs. Josephine M. Ludewig, Associate Professor of Nursing, at an annual salary of effective 1 September 1967.Miss Mary A. MacDougall, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. James E. Mann, Jr., Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Samuel P. Maroney, Jr., Associate Professor of Biology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. R. Bruce Martin, Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Bernard Mayo, Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Woodford D. McClellan, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Regina C. McCormack, Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Neil G. McCormick, Assistant Professor of Microbiology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Richard D. McKinsey, Associate Professor of Biology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Richard A. Meade, Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Charles O. Meiburg, Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. DeForest Mellon, Jr., Assistant Professor of Biology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Edward V. Mochel, Associate Professor of Engineering Drawing, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. L. Gaston Moffatt, Professor of Romance Philology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. John N. Moore, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Robert J. Morgan, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Frederick S. Morton, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Harold S. Morton, Jr., Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. William B. O'Neal, Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Hermon M. Parker, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Carlo Pelliccia, Associate Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. J. Gaither Pratt, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology), at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Edwin W. Pullen, Associate Professor of Anatomy, at an annual salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Rouhollah K. Ramazani, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Charles G. Reid, Jr., Associate Professor of Spanish, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Frederick L. W. Richardson, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. James L. Riopel, Associate Professor of Biology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Miss Linda D. Robinson, Assistant Professor of Nursing, at an annual salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Oscar R. Rodig, Associate Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. William G. Rose, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Marvin Rosenblum, Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Paul N. Schatz, Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Robert F. Selden, Jr., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1967.Mr. C. Stewart Sheppard, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. James G. Simmonds, Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. John L. Snook, Jr., Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Nickolas J. Sojka, Assistant Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. George W. Spicer, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Stanley S. Stahl, Jr., Professor of Education, at a session salary of , plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Lever F. Stewart, Associate Professor of Neurology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Arthur F. Stocker, Professor of Classics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Benjamin C. Sturgill, Assistant Professor of Pathology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Lewis F. Sutton, Assistant Professor of French, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Ertle Thompson, Lecturer in Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Robert F. Vandell, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. William L. Velton, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Myron P. Walzak, Jr., Assistant Professor of Urology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. William Watson, Professor of Sociology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Richard A. Wetzel, Assistant Professor of Radiology and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Munsey S. Wheby, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Mason Willrich, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Edward C. Wilson, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1967.Mr. T. Braxton Woody, Professor of French, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Anthony D. Woozley, Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. David C. Yalden-Thomson, Associate Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Robert S. Young, Associate Professor of Geology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Abraham W. Zelomek, Visiting Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. William Zuk, Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. J. Hamilton Allan as Chairman, Department of Orthopedics, effective 31 August 1967. Dr. Allan will continue to teach on a part-time basis, and enter private practice.Mrs. LaNelle B. Baxter, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective 23 August 1967, for reasons of health and family responsibilities.Mr. Joseph L. Blotner, Associate Professor of English, effective 30 June 1968, to accept a position at the University of North Carolina.Mr. Truman A. Botts, Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective 31 January 1968, to accept a position as Executive Director of the Conference Board of the Mathematical Sciences, Washington, D. C.Mr. Lawrence D. Gaughan, Assistant Professor of Law, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position on the JAG School Faculty.Dr. Charles E. Hamner, Jr., as Director of the Vivarium, effective 31 August 1967. Dr. Hamner will continue his present faculty appointment as Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology.Mr. Robert S. Johnson, Associate Professor of Economics, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position as Assistant Director of Education, National Association of Mutual Savings Banks, New York.Dr. William S. Jordan, Jr., Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, effective 15 September 1967, to accept the position of Dean of the University of Kentucky College of Medicine, at Louisville.Mr. Paul J. Kleppner, Acting Assistant Professor of History, effective 31 August 1967, for personal reasons.Miss Mary Ann MacDougall, Acting Director, Bureau of Educational Research, effective 30 September 1967, in order to concentrate her attention on other duties.Dr. Edwin S. Munson, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, effective 31 August 1967, to accept a position at the University of California at Davis.Dr. David S. Newcombe, Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, effective 15 September 1967, to accept a position at the University of Vermont.Mr. Gordon Tullock, Associate Professor of Economics, effective 31 August 1967, to accept a position at Rice University.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

In accordance with the resolution adopted by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, the following appointments were announced: Captain Walter C. Blattmann as Professor of Naval Science, for four years, effective September 1967.Lieutenant Colonel Robert C. Dart as Professor of Military Science, effective September 1967.Lieutenant Commander Angus Macaulay as Associate Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective August 1967.Captain David C. Meade as Assistant Professor of Military Science, effective November 1967.Major McLendon G. Morris as Associate Professor of Naval Science, for three years, effective July 1967.Captain John D. Newman as Assistant Professor of Air Science, for three years, effective May 1968.Lieutenant (jg) Frank C. Vanlandingham as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective July 1967.

The following appointments were also announced: Mr. James D. Beaber as Chairman, Department of Special Education, School of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Richard L. Beard as Chairman, Department of Counselor Education, School of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Rolf H. Benzinger as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective 1 September 1967.Mrs. Zula Mae Bice as Chairman of the Baccalaureate Curriculum Committee, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Adrian Blaauw as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two months, effective 1 September 1967.Mrs. Helen G. Burr as Chairman, Department of Speech Pathology and Audiology, School of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Robert T. Canevari as Assistant Dean of the University, for one year, effective 1 August 1967.Mr. Henry Eyring as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one month, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Jay Y. Gillenwater as Chairman, Department of Urology, for five years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Peter L. Heath as Chairman, Department of Philosophy, for five years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. George W. Holmes, III, as Chairman, Department of Administration and Supervision, School of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Milton D. Jacobson as Acting Director, Bureau of Educational Research, for one year, effective 15 October 1967.Mr. Matthias E. Kayhoe as Assistant Dean, School of Architecture, for five years, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Edward A. Kolodziej as Chairman, Woodrow Wilson Department of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Calvin M. Kunin as Chairman, Department of Preventive Medicine, for five years, effective 15 September 1967.Dr. Byrd S. Leavell as Chairman, Department of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.Miss Mary A. MacDougall as Acting Director, Bureau of Educational Research, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Marcus B. Mallett as Chairman, Department of Liberal Arts, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Richard A. Meade as Chairman, Department of Curriculum and Instruction, School of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Charles O. Meiburg as Director, Bureau of Population and Economic Research, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Joseph J. Murray, Jr., as Director, Mountain Lake Biological Station, for five years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. G. Warren Nutter as Chairman, Department of Economics, for five years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Akiya Ookawa as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Monrad G. Paulsen as Dean, School of Law, for five years, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. A. J. G. Priest as Scholar-in-Residence, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Nickolas J. Sojka as Director of the Vivarium, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Peter C. Toms as Director, Financial Aid to Students, effective 1 August 1967.Mr. Virgil S. Ward as Chairman, Department of Foundations of Education, School of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF APPOINTMENT OF DR. ERNST O. ATTINGER
----------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the effective date of the appointment of Dr. Ernst O. Attinger as Director, Biomedical Engineering Program, as reported by him to the Board on 18 February 1967, had been changed from 1 July 1967 to 1 September 1967.

CHANGE OF APPOINTMENT OF LIEUT. COMDR. ANGUS MACAULAY
-----------------------------------------------------

The President announced a change of appointment of Lieutenant Commander Angus Macaulay from Assistant Professor of Naval Science, to Associate Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective August 1967.

CHANGE OF APPOINTMENT OF MAJOR McLENDON G. MORRIS
-------------------------------------------------

The President announced a change of appointment of Major McLendon G. Morris from Assistant Professor of Naval Science, to Associate Professor of Naval Science, for three years, effective July 1967.

INTRODUCTION OF NEW BOARD MEMBER
--------------------------------

The Rector introduced Mr. William S. Potter, the new member of the Board of Visitors who had been appointed by the Governor to fill the unexpired term of William A. Hobbs.

FILLING OF VACANCY ON THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
---------------------------------------------

As provided in Section 3.1 of the 1966 Manual of the Board of Visitors, Albertis S. Harrison, Jr. was elected to fill the vacancy on the Executive Committee resulting from the resignation of William A. Hobbs from the Board, effective 30 June 1967.

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON RECOGNITION OF BENEFACTORS OF THE UNIVERSITY
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.3 of the 1966 Manual of the Board of Visitors, which calls for a life of not to exceed one year for a special committee unless specifically renewed by action of either the Board or the Rector, he had renewed the appointment of the Special Committee on Recognition of Benefactors of the University for one year, effective 11 October 1967. The composition of this Committee is as follows: J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr., Chairman, Hunter Faulconer, and Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr..

UNIVERSITY'S BIENNIAL BUDGET REQUEST, 1968-70
---------------------------------------------

The President presented the Biennial Budget Request of the University for 1968-70 in substantially the same form as the request was submitted to the Governor and his Advisory Board on the Budget on 19 September 1967 in Richmond.

PROPOSED CHANGE IN THE TEACHERS' INSURANCE ANNUITY ASSOCIATION (TIAA) GROUP LIFE AND GROUP DISABILITY PROGRAMS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President proposed certain improvements in the existing TIAA group life insurance and group disability programs. The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the existing TIAA group life insurance and group disability program shall be changed to provide (1) increased group life insurance coverage for each insured staff member under the age of 56 from $30,000 to $35,000, and for those above the age of 56 improved coverage on a decreasing basis ranging from $32,900 at age 56 to $7,700 at age 68 and over, and (2) increased disability benefits from a monthly income benefit of 60% of the covered monthly salary up to $1,000 plus 40% of the covered monthly salary in excess of $1,000 (not to exceed $1,000), to a monthly income benefit of 60% of the covered monthly salary (not to exceed $1,200).

REPORT ON TERMINATION OF THE VIRGINIA ASSOCIATED RESEARCH CENTER JOINT AGREEMENT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported on the action of the Executive Committee concerning the termination of the Virginia Associated Research Center Joint Agreement.

MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TAYLOE MURPHY INSTITUTE
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the Council of the Tayloe Murphy Institute, effective 1 September 1967, for three-year terms:FitzGerald BemissJ. C. Herbert BryantBaldwin LocherBlake T. Newton, Jr.J. Hoge Tyler, III

REPORT ON ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AUTHORIZING THE APPLICATION FOR A GRANT FOR AN ADDITION TO UNIVERSITY HALL
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported on the action of the Executive Committee authorizing the President or the Comptroller to apply for a grant for an addition to University Hall. Action by the Executive Committee was necessary since the deadline for the submission of the grant was 1 October 1967.

REPORT ON ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AUTHORIZING AN APPLICATION FOR A GRANT FOR THE DRAMA EDUCATION BUILDING
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported on the action of the Executive Committee authorizing the President or the Comptroller to apply for a grant for the Drama Education Building. Action by the Executive Committee was necessary because of the deadline of 1 October 1967 for submission of the grant application.

JOHN B. CARY MEMORIAL DEPARTMENT OF RELIGIOUS STUDIES
-----------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the name of the John B. Cary Memorial Department of Religion has been changed to the John B. Cary Memorial Department of Religious Studies, effective 22 September 1967.

DEPARTMENTAL STRUCTURE IN THE SCHOOL OF EDUCATION
-------------------------------------------------

The President reported on the establishment, effective 5 September 1967, of a departmental structure in the School of Education calling for the creation of the following departments: (1) Administration and Supervision; (2) Curriculum and Instruction; (3) Foundations of Education; (4) Counselor Education; (5) Special Education; and (6) Speech Pathology and Audiology.

ARCHITECTS FOR THE LAW SCHOOL-GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION COMPLEX
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the Buildings and Grounds Committee had approved the Virginia architectural firm of Stainback and Scribner in association with Hugh Stubbins as the architects for the Law School-Graduate School of Business Administration complex.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the architectural firm of Stainback and Scribner be and it is hereby approved to work in association with Hugh Stubbins as the architects for the Law School-Graduate School of Business Administration complex.

ARCHITECTS FOR GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MASTER SITE PLAN
----------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the officials of George Mason College have strongly recommended the selection of the firm of John Carl Warnecke & Associates of San Francisco for the preparation of the new Master Site Plan for George Mason College and that the selection of this firm has been approved by the Buildings and Grounds Committee.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the architectural firm of John Carl Warnecke & Associates of San Francisco be and it is hereby approved for the preparation of a new Master Site Plan for George Mason College.

GIFT OF MRS. PHILIP B. PHILIPP
------------------------------

The President reported that Mrs. Philip B. Philipp of Covesville, Virginia, has given 2,000 shares of common stock of Eastman Kodak Company to the University of Virginia to be used to purchase a linear acceleration radiation therapy unit for the School of Medicine as a memorial to her late husband.

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the gift of 2,000 shares of common stock of Eastman Kodak Company by Mrs. Philip B. Philipp as a memorial to her late husband will bring additional strength to the University's program in medicine by providing the proceeds with which to purchase a linear acceleration radiation therapy unit for the School of Medicine;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we accept with warm appreciation this generous gift from Mrs. Philip B. Philipp, and convey to her through this resolution our sincere thanks for this gift which will enable the School of Medicine to assume an even more advanced position in medical teaching and research.

DEGREE OF BACHELOR OF ARTS AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia shall offer degree programs for the Bachelor of Arts in Biology, Business and Public Administration, Chemistry, Elementary Education, English, History, French, Spanish, and Mathematics.

REQUEST FOR USE OF THE UNIVERSITY CHAPEL FOR ECUMENICAL MEETINGS
----------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported on a request that he had received for the use of the University Chapel for ecumenical meetings. After a discussion there was unanimous agreement that the request should be denied.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program.

REPORT ON ENROLLMENT
--------------------

The President reported on enrollment at the University for 1967-68.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$ 81,925.75

Free service to Counties and Cities

277,437.96

\-----------

Total

$359,363.71

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1484, 1485, 1488, 1489, 1496, 1497, 1500, 1501, 1508, 1509, 1512, and 1513, aggregating $359,363.71, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts, etc.$ 81,925.75Free service to Counties and Cities277,437.96-----------Total$359,363.71

INTER-UNIVERSITY INTERNATIONAL TEACHER EDUCATION COUNCIL, INC.
--------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the Dean of the School of Education, Mr. Ralph W. Cherry, had proposed that the University of Virginia become a member of the Inter-University International Teacher Education Council, Inc., as one of the charter members. He reported further that this proposal, which is to be financed by the U.S. Government under the International Education Act of 1966, has for its major purpose "the education of teachers in international studies, research, and participation in a group of American colleges and universities which pool their resources as a consortium. Member institutions of this consortium will establish professional relationships with universities in a number of countries at which prospective teachers from all member institutions and other teacher training institutions may have study and field experiences in the culture and education of these countries."

The President stated that the program had been reviewed by the Provost, Mr. Hereford, and by the Associate Provost for Research, Mr. Kuhlthau, and that it was their strong recommendation that the University become a member of the Inter-University International Teacher Education Council, Inc., as they saw an opportunity for the University of Virginia to become one of the leaders in various areas related to international studies.

Accordingly, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to arrange for the University of Virginia to become a member of the Inter-University International Teacher Education Council, Inc.

ARCHITECTS FOR MEDICAL LIBRARY BUILDING
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that authorization be and it is hereby given for the employment of the architectural firm of Williams and Tazewell of Norfolk, with Rowlett and Scott of Roanoke as Associates, as the architects for the Medical Library Building.

INCREASE IN HOSPITAL CHARGES
----------------------------

Accommodations

Number

Present Rate

Proposed Rate

Private rooms

34

$31.00

$39.00

Private rooms

12

32.00

40.00

Private rooms

8

33.00

41.00

Private rooms

2

40.00

48.00

Mother & child rooms

10

33.00

41.00

Semi-private, two bed

280

28.00

36.00

Semi-private, three bed

24

26.00

34.00

Semi-private, four bed

92

24.00

32.00

Pediatric beds, all

64

25.00

33.00

Psychiatric, private

8

32.00

40.00

Psychiatric, two bed

6

29.00

37.00

Psychiatric, three bed

3

29.00

37.00

Psychiatric, four bed

20

28.00

36.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed rates for care and service at the University of Virginia Hospital be and they are hereby approved, effective 16 October 1967: AccommodationsNumberPresent RateProposed RatePrivate rooms34$31.00$39.00Private rooms1232.0040.00Private rooms833.0041.00Private rooms240.0048.00Mother & child rooms1033.0041.00Semi-private, two bed28028.0036.00Semi-private, three bed2426.0034.00Semi-private, four bed9224.0032.00Pediatric beds, all6425.0033.00Psychiatric, private832.0040.00Psychiatric, two bed629.0037.00Psychiatric, three bed329.0037.00Psychiatric, four bed2028.0036.00

ARCHITECTS FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE SWIMMING POOL
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that authorization be and it is hereby given for the employment of Mr. Charles McElroy as the architect for the swimming pool at Clinch Valley College.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESExecutive CommitteeFinance CommitteeMary Washington College CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMedical CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the Standing Committees. The membership of the Standing Committees and the Executive Committee is as follows: Executive CommitteeMr. Frank W. Rogers, ChairmanMr. A. S. Harrison, Jr.Mr. J. Sloan KuykendallMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr.Mr. Lewis M. Walker, Jr. Finance CommitteeMr. William M. Birdsong, ChairmanMr. A. S. Harrison, Jr.Mr. William S. PotterMr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr. Mary Washington College CommitteeMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr., ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownMr. Richard S. CrossMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr.Mr. Lewis M. Walker, Jr. Student Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMr. Hunter Faulconer, ChairmanMr. William M. BirdsongMrs. E. Parker BrownMr. Richard S. CrossDr. J. Hartwell HarrisonMr. Walkley E. JohnsonMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr. Medical CommitteeDr. Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., ChairmanDr. J. Hartwell HarrisonMr. Lewis M. Walker, Jr. Buildings and Grounds CommitteeMr. J. Sloan Kuykendall, ChairmanMr. Hunter FaulconerMr. A. S. Harrison, Jr.Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr.Mr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr.Mr. Langbourne M. Williams Educational Policy CommitteeMr. Langbourne M. Williams, ChairmanMr. Walkley E. JohnsonDr. Edwin L. Kendig, Jr.Mr. J. Sloan KuykendallMr. William S. Potter

RATIFICATION OF THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE RELATING TO THE PARIETAL RULES FOR STUDENT DORMITORIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President stated that, on 24 August 1967, the Executive Committee, on the recommendation of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, approved a set of parietal rules for the dormitories at the University. A copy of the parietal rules as approved was sent to each member of the Board in a memorandum dated 18 September 1967. During the meeting between the President and student leaders relating to the preparation of a plan by the students for the administration of the parietal rules as approved by the Executive Committee, the need was shown for two technical amendments to those rules. These two changes, which also received the approval of the Executive Committee, were as follows: (1) change section 1-d of the parietal rules to read as follows: "Visitors to University Dormitories are to be limited to resident University students and their dates or relatives, except that other male visitors and their dates or relatives may visit rooms and suites in the dormitories provided they are registered in advance with the representative of the Residence Council of that living area," and (2) change section 2 entitled Parietal Rules for Each Dormitory Area, by adding sub-section (3) under b to read as follows: "(3) When graduate students are in residence as a unit in the Alderman Road and Observatory dormitories, for that unit the visitation rules shall be the same as for Monroe Hill, the Lawn, and the Ranges."

The President proposed that the parietal rules, as amended, be approved for inclusion in the permanent minutes of the Board. The President therefore proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the parietal rules approved by the Executive Committee on 24 August 1967, and as amended subsequently by the Executive Committee, be and they are hereby ratified, confirmed, and approved as follows:1. General ProvisionsFemale and male visitors are permitted in suites in University dormitories under the following general limitations and within the hours outlined subsequently for each living area. The general provisions are:a. Visitors to any dormitory are identified as the guests of one particular resident of the room or suite being visited.b. That particular resident is fully responsible for the acts of his guest or guests.c. It is the responsibility of any room or suite resident to identify any unknown visitor as the guest of the particular resident in that room or suite.d. Visitors to University dormitories are to be limited to resident University students and their dates or relatives, except that other male visitors and their dates or relatives may visit rooms and suites in the dormitories provided they are registered in advance with the representative of the Residence Council of that living area.e. Additional limitations of these rules may be determined by the residents of each living area, subject to the concurrence of the Dean of the University.f. It is understood that the primary responsibility for maintaining sensible visiting practices in the dormitories lies with the resident students of each living area.2. Parietal Rules for Each Dormitory Areaa. McCormick Road DormitoriesNo changes will be made in the present visitation rules. Female visitors will continue to be permitted in the public dormitory lounges. (See #3 a, b, c, and d.)b. Alderman Road and Observatory Dormitories(1) Where first-year undergraduate students are housed in Alderman Road or Observatory dormitories (i.e., Balz, Dobie, and Watson) no changes in the present visitation rules will be made. Female visitors will not be permitted in these students' rooms or suites. They will continue to be permitted in the public dormitory lounges. (See #3 a, b, c, and d.)(2) In other than first-year undergraduate student rooms in the Alderman Road and Observatory dormitories, female visitors will be permitted in suite areas only, and with open drapes, on(a) Home football weekends: Saturday from the conclusion of the football game to 7:00 p.m.; Sunday from 2:00 to 7:00 p.m.(b) Weekends of Opening, Mid-winter, and Easter dances, and Finals: Friday from 2:00 to 7:00 p.m.; Saturday from 2:00 to 7:00 p.m.; Sunday from 2:00 to 7:00 p.m.(c) On other weekends: Saturday from 2:00 to 7:00 p.m.; Sunday from 2:00 to 7:00 p.m.(3) When graduate students are in residence as a unit in the Alderman Road and Observatory dormitories, for that unit the visitation rules shall be the same as for Monroe Hill, the Lawn, and the Ranges.c. Monroe Hill, the Lawn, and the RangesFemale visitors will be permitted in the living rooms of Monroe Hill suites or in the rooms on the Lawn and Ranges on(1) Weekends of Opening, Mid-winter, and Easter dances, and Finals: Friday from 2:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight; Saturday from 2:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight; Sunday from 2:00 to 7:00 p.m.(2) On other weekends: Saturday from 2:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight; Sunday from 2:00 to 7:00 p.m.d. Mary Munford and McKim HallsMale students are not permitted in students' rooms. With regard to the lounges in Mary Munford and McKim Hall and the Coed lounge, the President is hereby authorized to approve new parietal rules for the use of these lounges in consultation with the Dean of Women and appropriate student members.3. Hours for Visiting Public Lounge FacilitiesPublic lounges and reception rooms, including but not limited to McCormick Road renovated lounges, Tuttle House on Alderman Road, and Tucker Lounge on Monroe Hill, may, if feasible, be kept open for the use of the resident students and visitors on the following schedule:a. Sunday through Thursday from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.b. Friday and Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight.c. Friday and Saturday on the weekends of Opening, Mid-winter, and Easter dances, and Finals, from 9:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.d. These hours may be further limited at any time by the Executive Committee of Counselors of the respective living areas as to the use of public lounges in these areas, subject to the approval of the Dean of the University.4. The President is authorized to keep Newcomb Hall open on the weekends of Opening, Mid-winter, and Easter dances, and Finals, subject to adequate provisions for staffing and financing, on the same schedule as that provided for the lounges.RESOLVED FURTHER that these parietal rules shall not become effective until the students have developed a system for their administration that has been approved by the President.

ENDOWMENT OF A ROOM ON THE LAWN
-------------------------------

The President announced the receipt of a gift from Mr. and Mrs. Frederic W. Scott in the amount of $10,000 to endow a room on the Lawn to be occupied free of charge by a degree applicant who is "a man of integrity, unselfishness and sportsmanship, and who has demonstrated personal concern for his fellow students."

After expression of gratitude by several of the Visitors, the following resolution was enthusiastically adopted: WHEREAS a gift in the amount of $10,000 has been made to the University of Virginia by Mr. and Mrs. Frederic W. Scott for the purpose of providing a room on the Lawn free of charge to a degree applicant in honor of the late Augustus Silliman Bladgen, III, a graduate of the Class of 1963 and an active member of the University Community;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby record our deep gratitude for this gift and direct the Secretary to transmit a copy of this resolution to Mr. and Mrs. Scott as a mark of our warm appreciation for this financial assistance which will be of great benefit to future students residing on the Lawn.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty at Mary Washington College:Mrs. Solange T. Chetai as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Miss Diana L. Dinsmore as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation (Dance), for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Herbert B. Hingert as Visiting Associate Professor of Philosophy, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Miss Carol Ann Kemmler as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Miss Judith L. Nixon as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Galo Rene Perez as Lecturer in Modern Foreign Languages, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mrs. Joan Rivera Robbins as Assistant Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mrs. Yvonne M. Sabine as Instructor in Music (Voice), one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of

CANCELLATION OF ELECTION OF MISS NICOLE THOMAS JODLOWSKI
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Miss Nicole Thomas Jodlowski as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of , as approved by the Board on 8 April 1967, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CANCELLATION OF RE-ELECTION OF MISS SANDRA PEABODY
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Miss Sandra Peabody as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of , as approved by the Board on 8 April 1967, be and it is hereby cancelled.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Peter R. Coffin, Associate Professor of Philosophy, effective 26 August 1967.Mr. Donald E. Jackson, Associate Professor of Psychology, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position at Eastern Michigan University.Miss Josefa Rivas, Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position at Windham College, Putney, Vermont.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Edward V. Allison, Jr., as Business Manager of Mary Washington College, effective 15 October 1967.Mrs. Jane N. Saladin as Registrar of the College, effective 8 August 1967.

REPORT ON ENROLIMENT
--------------------

The Chancellor reported on the opening enrollment for the 1967-68 academic session.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. James S. Champion as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. William J. Hooper, Jr., as Associate Professor of Physics, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Miss Christiane F. Jaunais as Lecturer in Modern Languages, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Miss Deann M. McCauley as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mrs. Lona W. Roberts, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Biology, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Aldis B. Hatch, Professor of Modern Languages, effective 30 June 1967, for reasons of health.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Louis J. Aebischer as Assistant Professor of Education, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 August 1967, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of Mr. Robert E. Boies as Lecturer in History, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Ted R. Bradley as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Donald K. Day as Instructor in Physics, two-thirds time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1967, at a salary of Mr. James A. Dinnan as Associate Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Thomas E. Lowderbaugh as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Harold E. Marshall as Lecturer in Economics, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. George W. Mushrush as Instructor in Chemistry, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Weber H. Peterson as Associate Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Charles P. Poland, Jr., as Lecturer in History, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mrs. Nancy H. Shillingburg as Lecturer in English, one-half time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1967, at a salary of Mrs. Melissa Sue Stanley as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Miss Teresa A. Urso as Instructor in Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Helen S. Garson, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Michael J. McDermott, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, to assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Miss Eleanor J. McKeithen, from Assistant Professor of Psychology, to Lecturer in Psychology, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mrs. Lorraine A. Schlesinger, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Patrick J. Larkin, Assistant Professor and Librarian, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective 1 July 1967.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Thomas M. Davis, Assistant Professor of History, effective 1 September 1967, for personal reasons.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Louis J. Aebischer as Associate Director of Admissions, for one year, effective 1 August 1967.

PATRICK HENRY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Clarence A. Anderson as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work and for administrative duties, or a total salary of Mr. Benjamin H. Brinton, Jr., as Instructor in French, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mrs. Delores D. Eanes as Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Clyde E. Pitts as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Nathaniel V. Daniel, Jr., Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Boyd J. McGee as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. James W. McIntosh, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mrs. Ruby D. Mitchell as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. David T. Morgan, Jr., as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Dorothy Z. Mills, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Charles R. Revie, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Sherman S. Dutton, Associate Professor of General Studies, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 July 1967.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Miss Mary P. Adams, Associate Professor of History, effective 30 June 1967, for travel and research.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Sherman S. Dutton as Director, Patrick Henry College, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Joseph E. Khoury as Lecturer in Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Wendell M. Lewis as Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Wendell M. Lewis as Director, Central Virginia Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.

EASTERN SHORE BRANCH MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Carl T. Furlow as Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Cary A. Young as Lecturer in Engineering Technology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. George B. Brothers as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Richard C. Hatfield as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mrs. Nelle D. Nock as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Joseph Perfetti as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mr. Robert M. Ours, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Gordon F. Theisz, Jr., Assistant Professor of Engineering Technology, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position with Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Baltimore.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. William R. Pogue as Acting Director, Eastern Shore Branch, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.

HAMPTON ROADS CENTER MATTERSELECTION
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Jack L. Forbes as Lecturer in Economics, for one year, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. William D. Benham as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Jack L. Forbes as Director, Hampton Roads Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.

MADISON FIELD OFFICE MATTERSPROMOTION
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mrs. Lucille E. Whyburn, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSAPPOINTMENT
----------------------------------------------------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Dean E. Brundage as Director, Northern Virginia Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.

RICHMOND CENTER MATTERSRE-ELECTION
----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Franklin R. Sibert as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Franklin R. Sibert as Director, Richmond Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Franklin R. Sibert, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1967.

SOUTHWEST VIRGINIA CENTER MATTERSRE-ELECTION
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Joseph R. Earnest as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Joseph R. Earnest as Director, Southwest Virginia Center, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:15 p.m.

WC:rw