 TEI to HTML

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 PAVILION VIII, EAST LAWN 4 October 1968
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on 4 October 1968 in the Office of the President at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Frank W. Rogers; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Brown, Cross, J. Hartwell Harrison, W. Harrison, Johnson, Kendig, Kuykendall, McConnell, Parrish, Potter, Walker, Wheatley, and Wilkinson. Absent: Visitors absent were William M. Birdsong and Langbourne M. Williams. Grellet C. Simpson and Michael Houston were present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. was present throughout the meeting. Messrs. William A. Hobbs, A. E. Dick Howard, and William S. Willis were present during the report on the Sesquicentennial.

The minutes of the meeting of 7 June 1968, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

FILLING OF VACANCY ON THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
---------------------------------------------

The Rector announced with regret the resignation of Visitor William M. Birdsong as a member of the Executive Committee, effective 9 August 1968. As required by Section 3.1 of the 1966 Manual of the Board of Visitors, which provides that "Any vacancy on the Executive Committee shall be filled for the unexpired term at the next regular meeting of the Board and by written ballot if there is more than one nomination," the Rector called for the election of a Visitor to serve on the Executive Committee until the next Annual Meeting in June 1969.

On motion of Mr. Kuykendall, seconded by Mr. Walker, Mr. Wilkinson was unanimously elected as a member of the Executive Committee for the unexpired portion of Mr. Birdsong's term.

STANDING COMMITTEESExecutive CommitteeFinance CommitteeMary Washington College CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMedical CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that he had made certain changes in the composition of the membership of the standing committees. The membership of the standing committees, as rearranged, is as follows: Executive CommitteeFrank W. Rogers, ChairmanJ. Sloan KuykendallLewis M. Walker, Jr.J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr.Langbourne M. Williams Finance CommitteeWilliam S. Potter, ChairmanJoseph H. McConnellJ. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr. Mary Washington College CommitteeLewis M. Walker, Jr., ChairmanWilliam M. BirdsongMrs. E. Parker BrownRichard S. CrossMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr. Student Affairs and Athletics CommitteeWalkley E. Johnson, ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownRichard S. CrossJ. Hartwell HarrisonW. Wright HarrisonJoseph H. McConnellC. Stuart Wheatley, Jr. Medical CommitteeEdwin L. Kendig, Jr., ChairmanJ. Hartwell HarrisonLewis M. Walker, Jr. Buildings and Grounds CommitteeJ. Sloan Kuykendall, ChairmanWilliam M. BirdsongW. Wright HarrisonMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr.J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr.Langbourne M. Williams Educational Policy CommitteeLangbourne M. Williams, ChairmanWalkley E. JohnsonEdwin L. Kendig, Jr.J. Sloan KuykendallWilliam S. PotterC. Stuart Wheatley, Jr.

The Rector, Mr. Frank W. Rogers, is an ex officio member of all committees.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Charles C. Alexander as Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Roger J. Bain as Assistant Professor of Geology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968 at a session salary of .Mr. Richard H. Bartlett as Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Robert A. Beizer as Lecturer in Law, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Dr. Charles S. Borden, Jr., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Dentistry), for the period 1 June 1968 through 30 June 1969, at an annual salary of Mr. Richard H. Bouldin as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Geraldine Brady as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of Mrs. Christabel P. Braunrot as Instructor in French, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Dr. Robert S. Brown as Lecturer in Education, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Esther C. Burch as Junior Instructor in Spanish, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Earl W. Cameron as Lecturer in Architecture, one-third time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mr. James B. Carothers as Junior Instructor in English, four-sevenths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Louis J. Chinatti as Acting Assistant Professor of Italian, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. John Clarke as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Dr. Alvin F. Coburn as Visiting Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Dr. William C. Constable as Associate Professor of Radiology, for the period 15 August 1968 through 30 June 1971, at an annual salary of .Miss Joan M. Corbett as Lecturer in History, for one year, effective 1 October 1968, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of Mr. Dale A. Craig as Visiting Assistant Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Ronald L. Crawford as Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one year, effective 1 August 1968, at an annual salary of Mrs. Marian H. Crosby as Professor of Nursing, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Donald J. Dudziak as Visiting Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. John L. DuPuy as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Max D. Evans as Assistant Professor of City Planning, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of plus for summer work, or a total salary of Mr. Herman S. Frey as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Peter Hackett as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Phyllis S. Harrah as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of Dr. John A. Jane as Professor of Neurosurgery, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of Dr. Ann J. Johanson as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective 1 August 1968, at an annual salary of .Mr. James L. Jones as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Dr. Thomas Kenner as Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering and of Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of Mr. F. Duane Lamkin as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Lord Michael F. M. Lindsay as Visiting Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Michael W. Moohr as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective 1 February (1969) at a salary of Mr. Heinrich G. Mueldner as Visiting Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective 10 June 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. James T. Murphy, Jr., as Acting Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Sang B. Nam as Assistant Professor of Physics, for two years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Daniel H. Newlon as Junior Instructor in Economics, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Michael A. Ozol as Lecturer in Civil Engineering, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mr. Michael J. Peach as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of .Mrs. Frances T. Plunkett as Instructor in History, one-third time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mr. Jerry D. Reber as Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mr. Bernard Reich as Visiting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, one-sixth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mr. John V. Reishman as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Dr. Richard B. Robins as Lecturer in Otolaryngology, for one year, effective 1 October 1968.Mr. Robert C. Small as Junior Instructor in Education, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Saul Sosnowski as Junior Instructor in Spanish, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mr. Richard W. Stream as Assistant Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Stephen T. Thornton as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, effective 1 February 1969, at a session salary of Mr. James S. Tuley as Visiting Associate Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Humphrey Y. Wang as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.

ELECTION TO FACULTY OF LIBRARIAN
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following member of the library staff of the University be and she is hereby elected to the General Faculty, to be listed in the appropriate faculty section of the University catalogues by the title of the library position only:Miss Joy Williams, Library Director, to rank as Assistant Professor, for three years, effective 1 July 1968.

ELECTION TO FACULTY OF ASSOCIATE LIBRARIAN
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following member of the library staff of the University be and he is hereby elected to the General Faculty, to be listed in the appropriate faculty section of the University catalogues by the title of the library position only:Mr. Kenneth G. Peterson, Associate Librarian, Alderman Library to rank as Associate Professor, effective 1 August 1968, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for administrative duties, or a total salary of

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 7 JUNE 1968
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Thomas J. Gates, as approved by the Board on 7 June 1968, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Thomas J. Gates as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 7 JUNE 1968
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Mr. William W. Roberts, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, as approved by the Board on 7 June 1968, be changed from 1 September 1968 to 1 February 1969.

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF MISS MARY E. HAZZARD
------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Miss Mary E. Hazzard as Assistant Professor of Nursing, as approved by the Board on 17 February 1968, be and it is hereby changed from 1 September 1968 to 1 July 1968.

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF MISS PHYLLIS J. VERHONICK
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Miss Phyllis J. Verhonick as Professor of Nursing, as approved by the Board on 9 December 1967, be changed from 1 September 1968 to 1 August 1968.

CHANGE IN THE TERM OF THE ELECTION OF MR. HOWARD L. HAMILTON
------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the term of the election of Mr. Howard L. Hamilton as Professor of Biology, as approved by the Board on 7 June 1968, be changed from one-half time, for one year, to full time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby reelected to the faculty:Dr. Patricia M. Andrews as Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Carlos R. Ayers as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of .Mr. James D. Bryden as Assistant Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Dr. William H. Chapman as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Cosmo A. DiFazio as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of .Dr. Eelco D. Gerlings as Visiting Assistant Professor of Physiology, for two months, effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Frank C. McCue, III, as Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of .Dr. Alfor B. Mosca as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. J. Gaither Pratt as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology), for three years, effective 1 January 1969.Dr. Melville P. Roberts, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Neurological Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Kolar N. Seshanarayana as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective 1 November 1968, at an annual salary of Dr. F. Michael Shepard as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Dr. David V. Strider as Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Stephen L. Wangensteen as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Wilhelm Godschalk, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of .Dr. Daniel L. Seale, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Dr. Vamik D. Volkan, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 7 JUNE 1968
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the promotion of Dr. Fritz E. Dreifuss, as approved by the Board of 7 June 1968, be changed to read as follows:Dr. Fritz E. Dreifuss, Associate Professor, to Professor of Neurology, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 7 JUNE 1968
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the promotion of Mr. Mason Willrich, as approved by the Board on 7 June 1968, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Mason Willrich, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Dr. Phillip M. Allen, Assistant Professor of Clinical Pathology, for two years, effective 1 September 1968, without pay, to prepare for work in biomathematics and data processing.Mr. Nicolas Cabrera, Commonwealth Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, without pay, to serve as Visiting Professor and Researcher, Instituto Politecnico Nacional and Universidad Autonoma Nacional, Mexico City.Mr. Ralph Cohen, Professor of English, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, without pay, to help organize and to participate in a graduate program in English and Comparative Literature at Tel Aviv University.Mr. M. Donald MacInnis, Associate Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, without pay, to accept a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation to be Composer in Residence with Robert Shaw and the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra.Mr. Bruce A. Rosenberg, Assistant Professor of English, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, without pay, to accept a research fellowship from the American Council of Learned Societies.

CHANGE IN THE TERMINATION DATE OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED MR. DONALD D. JACKSON
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the termination date of the leave of absence granted Mr. Donald D. Jackson, Professor of History and Editor, The Papers of George Washington, as approved by the Board on 19 April 1968, be changed from 30 November 1968 to 30 September 1968.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Alfred A. Arth, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Richard H. Austin, from Assistant Professor and Science Information Director, to Assistant Professor and Director, Science-Technology Information Center, for two years, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Herbert M. Burks, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mrs. Lillie O. Chang, from Assistant Professor of Radiology, to Assistant Professor of Radiology (Radiobiology and Biophysics), for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Bruce A. Chartres, from Professor of Computer Science, to Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Charles S. Chen, from Acting Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, to Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. James F. Childress, from Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, to Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Dr. J. Francis Dammann, Jr., from Professor of Pediatrics, to Professor of Pediatrics and of Biomedical Engineering, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Leopold Damrosch, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Fredrick Davidson, from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Dr. Frederick Hamer, from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Dentistry), to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Dentistry), for the period 1 August 1968 through 30 June 1970.Mr. Wesley L. Harris, from Acting Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, to Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Alan B. Howard, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for two years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Ching-Hsien Huang, from Visiting Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, to Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for the period 1 July 1968 through 31 August 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Harold H. Kolb, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for two years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. G. Siegfried Kutter, from Acting Assistant Professor of Astronomy, to Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Donald L. Martin, from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, to Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Bennett McCallum, from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, to Assistant Professor of Economics, for two years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Kurt O. Olsson from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Edward A. Parrish, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, to Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert H. Pate, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Gareth L. Schmeling, from Acting Assistant Professor of Classics, to Assistant Professor of Classics, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Lawrence A. Simpson, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 August 1968.Mr. Jennings L. Wagoner, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Dr. Harry S. Abram, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. D. Wilfred Abse, Professor of Psychiatry, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Gary K. Ackers, Associate Professor of Biochemistry, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Dr. M. Shannon Allen, Jr., Associate Professor of Pathology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. E. Meredith Alrich, Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Nuzhet O. Atuk, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Jerry W. Bains, Assistant Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Robert T. Barbee, Associate Professor of Art, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Norman H. Bass, Assistant Professor of Neurology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. William F. Beazer, Associate Professor of Economics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Julian R. Beckwith, Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Thomas F. Bergin, Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., Professor, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Robert M. Berne, Charles Slaughter Professor of Physiology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Frederic A. Berry, Jr., Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and of Pediatrics, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Jr., Associate Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Clive Bradbeer, Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Dr. John Buckman, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Robert R. Cardell, Jr., Associate Professor of Anatomy, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Joseph M. Carriere, Professor of French, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Edward P. Cawley, Professor of Dermatology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Weldon Cooper, Professor of Government, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Robert T. Corney, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. William E. Craddock, Associate Professor of Radiology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. William J. Crowley, Jr., Assistant Professor of Neurology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Thomas S. Currier, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Dr. John S. Davis, IV, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Milton H. Donaldson, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Dr. E. Cato Drash, Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. John T. Dunn, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Douglas W. Eastwood, Professor of Anesthesiology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Edward E. Edgar, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mrs. Virginia H. Edwards, Assistant Professor of Nursing, at an annual salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Ernest L. Folk, III, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John D. Forbes, Professor of Business History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Clifford H. Fox, Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Charles J. Frankel, Associate Professor of Orthopedics, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Ray W. Frantz, Jr., Professor, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Richard W. Garnett, Jr., Professor of Psychiatry, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Jay Y. Gillenwater, Professor of Urology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Desmond R. H. Gourley, Professor of Pharmacology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Cloid D. Green, Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. John L. Guerrant, Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Jack M. Gwaltney, Jr., Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Oron J. Hale, William W. Corcoran Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Dr. James T. Hamlin, III, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Charles E. Hamner, Jr., Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Walter K. Hanak, Lecturer in History and Slavic Bibliographer, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Dr. George R. Hanna, Assistant Professor of Neurology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Guy M. Harbert, Jr., Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. David R. Hawkins, Alumni Professor of Psychiatry, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Terring W. Heironimus, III, Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Dr. William B. Hunt, Jr., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Thomas R. Johns, Professor of Neurology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. James G. Kavanaugh, Jr., Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Theodore E. Keats, Professor of Radiology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Marion K. Kellogg, Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert L. Kellogg, Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Arthur C. Kirsch, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Dr. James D. Kitchin, III, Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Donald W. Kupke, Professor of Biochemistry, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Thomas W. Lamb, Assistant Professor of Physiology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Miss Roy Land, Associate Professor and Circulation Librarian, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Jan Langman, Harvey E. Jordan Professor of Anatomy, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Byrd S. Leavell, Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Graham C. Lilly, Assistant Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Peter C. Manson, Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Nathaniel F. G. Martin, Associate Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. R. Bruce Martin, Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John C. McCoid, II, Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert W. McGilvery, Professor of Biochemistry, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Everard W. Meade, Lecturer in Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Robert E. Merrill, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. James Q. Miller, Associate Professor of Neurology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. George R. Minor, Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Lucius G. Moffatt, Professor of Philology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Daniel N. Mohler, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Wilhelm Moll, Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. C. Bruce Morton, II, Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Henry C. Moses, Instructor in English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. William H. Muller, Jr., Stephen P. Watts Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Joseph J. Murray, Jr., Associate Professor of Biology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. John M. Nokes, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Dr. William M. O'Brien, Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. James W. Ogilvie, Jr., Associate Professor of Biochemistry, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. John A. Owen, Jr., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Eugene C. Paige, Jr., Associate Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Grover C. Pitts, Associate Professor of Physiology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Edwin W. Pullen, Associate Professor of Anatomy, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Kenneth R. Redden, Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. James C. Respess, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Mrs. Willie L. Rose, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Raymond A. Rousseau, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Leslie E. Rudolf, Associate Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Willis G. Ryckman, Lecturer in Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. William R. Sandusky, Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Charles F. Sargent, Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Paul N. Schatz, Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Carl A. Schnaitman, Assistant Professor of Microbiology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. William M. Sheppe, Jr., Associate Professor of Psychiatry, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. David E. Smith, Professor of Pathology, at an annual salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Stanley E. Sobottka, Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Nickolas J. Sojka, Assistant Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Albert W. Sparrow, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Richard E. Speidel, Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Nick Sperelakis, Professor of Physiology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Lever F. Stewart, Associate Professor of Neurology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Kendon L. Stubbs, Assistant Professor and Reference Librarian, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Benjamin C. Sturgill, Assistant Professor of Pathology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Alton L. Taylor, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Roby C. Thompson, Jr., Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Thomas E. Thompson, Professor of Biochemistry, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Dr. W. Norman Thornton, Jr., Robert C. Taylor Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Theodore R. Turner, Associate Professor of Art, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Robert L. Van de Castle, Professor of Psychiatry (Clinical Psychology), at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. William L. Velton, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Wesley A. Volk, Professor of Microbiology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Walter J. Wadlington, III, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Robert R. Wagner, Professor of Microbiology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Myron P. Walzak, Assistant Professor of Urology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Peyton E. Weary, Associate Professor of Dermatology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Ruth B. Weeks, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Daniel E. Weiner, Assistant Professor of Physiology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Frederic B. Westervelt, Jr., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Thomas C. Westfall, Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Richard A. Wetzel, Assistant Professor of Radiology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Munsey S. Wheby, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Mr. W. Dexter Whitehead, Jr., Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Edward C. Wilson, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Lester A. Wilson, Jr., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Anthony Winner, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Bobby T. Wood, Assistant Professor of Dermatology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. J. Edwin Wood, III, Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Arthur W. Wyker, Jr., Associate Professor of Urology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Johan Zwaan, Associate Professor of Anatomy, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 7 JUNE 1968
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the special salary action of Mr. D. Alan Williams, as approved by the Board on 7 June 1968, be changed to read as follows:Mr. D. Alan Williams, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of effective 1 July 1968.

RETIREMENT
----------

The President announced the following retirement: Mr. Morris S. McKeehan, Professor of Anatomy, effective 15 July 1968. Mr. McKeehan has been a member of the faculty since 1950.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Edward E. Edgar, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, effective 24 August 1968, to enter private practice.Mr. George J. Galasso, Associate Professor of Microbiology, effective 31 July 1968, to accept a position with the National Institutes of Health.Dr. James B. Littlefield, Associate Professor of Surgery, effective 31 August 1968, to accept a position at the Memorial University of Newfoundland, St. John's Newfoundland, Canada.Mr. Neil G. McCormick, Assistant Professor of Microbiology, effective 30 September 1968, to accept a position with the Army Research Laboratories, Natick, Massachusetts.Dr. Roger J. C. Meyer, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective 31 July 1968, to accept a position with the City of Chicago.Mr. John D. Miller, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, effective 31 August 1968, to accept a position at the Texas Technological College, Lubbock.Mr. Howard A. Ozmon, Jr., Associate Professor of Education, effective 30 June 1968, to accept a position at Chicago State College.Mr. James L. Sartin, Assistant Professor of Education, effective 30 June 1968, to accept a position at Auburn University.Dr. Yung H. Son, Associate Professor of Radiology, effective 30 September 1968, to accept the position of Director of Radiation Therapy at the Brooklyn-Cumberland Medical Center.Mr. Ervin R. Van Artsdalen, John W. Mallet Professor of Chemistry, effective 31 August 1968, to accept the chairmanship of the Department of Chemistry, University of Alabama.Mr. Robert K. Wild, Assistant Professor of Physics, effective 1 September 1968, to return to England.Mr. Terence H. Williams, Professor of Anatomy, effective 31 August 1968, to accept a position at the Tulane Medical School.Dr. William J. Wilson, Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective 31 August 1968, to accept the chairmanship of the Department of Radiology at the University of Nebraska College of Medicine.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

In accordance with the resolution adopted by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, the President announced the following appointments: Captain Lewis J. Hubbard, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Military Science, effective June 1968.Captain Frank J. Wagner, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Military Science, effective June 1968.

The following appointments were also announced: Mr. Richard L. Beard as Chairman, Department of Counselor Education, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. John W. Boring as Assistant Director, Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective 1 August 1968.Mr. Richard M. Brandt as Chairman, Department of Foundations of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mrs. Helen G. Burr as Chairman, Department of Speech Pathology and Audiology, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Ralph W. Cherry as Acting Chairman, Department of Special Education, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Dr. W. Gayle Crutchfield as Acting Chairman, Department of Neurological Surgery, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Walter D. Fletcher as Counselor in Residence, School of Law, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Joseph P. Gilmore as Acting Chairman, Department of Pharmacology, for the period 1 September 1968 through 30 June 1969.Mr. Desmond R. H. Gourley as Chairman, Department of Pharmacology, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. E. Donald Hirsch, Jr., as Chairman, Department of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. George W. Holmes, III, as Chairman, Department of Administration and Supervision, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Marion K. Humphries, Jr., as Chairman, Department of Ophthalmology, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Dr. John A. Jane as Chairman, Department of Neurosurgery, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Russell M. Lafferty as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Richard A. Meade as Chairman, Department of Curriculum and Instruction, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Dr. George R. Minor as Assistant Dean, School of Medicine, for two years, effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Daniel N. Mohler as Chairman, Department of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Eugene C. Paige, Jr., as Assistant Provost, for five years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Kenneth G. Peterson as Associate Librarian, Alderman Library, effective 1 August 1968.Dr. J. Edwin Wood, III, as Associate Dean, School of Medicine, for two years, effective 1 July 1968.

DEATH OF DR. CHARLES G. PEARSON
-------------------------------

SESQUICENTENNIAL ASSOCIATES OF THE CENTER FOR ADVANCED STUDIES
--------------------------------------------------------------

The President reminded the Board of the adoption by the Board of a resolution at its meeting on 7 June 1968, providing for the appointment of Sesquicentennial Scholars beginning with the academic year of 1969-1970. The President stated that, as a result of further study, certain changes were needed in the resolution. He therefore proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resolution providing for the establishment of the position of Sesquicentennial Scholar as adopted by the Board of Visitors at its meeting on 7 June 1968 be and it is hereby amended and re-enacted to read as follows:RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that an amount not to exceed $85,000 of the income of the Robert C. Taylor Fund be used annually to underwrite the appointment, beginning with the academic year of 1969-1970, of members of the faculty of professorial rank at Charlottesville as Sesquicentennial Associates of the Center for Advanced Studies, under such rules and regulations as are approved by the President of the University.

REPORT ON THE SESQUICENTENNIAL
------------------------------

Mr. A. E. Dick Howard, Mr. William A. Hobbs, and Mr. William S. Willis appeared before the Board to present a report on the current status of the Sesquicentennial.

REPORT ON ADMISSIONS AND ENROLLMENT
-----------------------------------

The President presented a report on admissions and enrollment for the academic year 1968-1969.

THE MOUNTAIN LAKE RETREAT
-------------------------

The President reported on the meeting of students and members of the administrative staff held at the Mountain Lake Biological Station on 13-15 September 1968.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program.

GRANT FOR ADDITION TO ENGINEERING BUILDING
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President or Comptroller be and either of them is hereby authorized to apply to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare for a grant under Title I of Public Laws 88-204 (Higher Education Facilities Act of 1963 as amended) to be used for the construction of the Addition to the School of Engineering.

GRANT FOR THE SCHOOL OF EDUCATION BUILDING
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President or Comptroller be and either of them is hereby authorized to apply to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare for a grant under Title II of Public Laws 88-204 (Higher Education Facilities Act of 1963 as amended) to be used for the construction of the School of Education Building.

PROPOSED DEGREES OF M.A. AND Ph.D. IN ART HISTORY
-------------------------------------------------

The President recommended the approval by the Board of the proposed new degrees of M.A. and Ph.D. in Art History, subject to the subsequent approval of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and the University Senate.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University is hereby authorized to award the degrees of M.A. and Ph.D. in Art History.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$ 44,974.24

Free service to Counties and Cities

127,000.36

\-----------

$171,974.60

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1617, 1618, 1621, 1622, 1624, and 1625, aggregating $171,974.60, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts, etc.$ 44,974.24Free service to Counties and Cities127,000.36-----------$171,974.60

DORMITORY RENTAL CHARGESSeptember 17, 1968 In re: Executive Committee-Dormitory Rental Charges
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector asked the Secretary to present to the Board a copy of his letter of 17 September 1968 to the Secretary, which reads as follows:

Mr. Weldon Cooper

Pavilion VIII, East Lawn

University of Virginia

Charlottesville, Virginia

Dear Weldon:

Today I concluded a telephone poll of the members of the Executive Committee on a proposed motion to rescind the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors on February 17, 1968 as set forth on page 13 of the minutes of that meeting under the heading "Dormitory Rental Charges".

Messrs. Birdsong, Kuykendall, Walker and the chairman voted in the affirmative. Mr. Williams was reported as being absent on an extended tour of the west coast and hence not available.

In accordance with Section 3.1 of the Manual, you are requested to include in the agenda for the next meeting of the Board a report by the chairman of this action. Although confirmation does not appear necessary I would like a resolution of approval adopted by the Board.

FWR/dej

cc-Mr. Shannon

Members Executive

Committee

Following the reading of the letter, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the action of the Executive Committee on 17 September 1968 rescinding the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors on 17 February 1968, which was amended by a resolution adopted by the Board at its meeting on 19 April 1968, be and it is hereby ratified, confirmed, and approved.

THE VINCENT ESTATE
------------------

The President reported on the Hugh E. Vincent Estate. In the preamble to a resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors on 13 June 1964, authorizing the sale of certain parcels of land for the purpose of widening Poydras Street in New Orleans, Louisiana, it was pointed out that the Vincent Estate should acquire two small adjoining properties which would materially enhance the value of the property retained by the estate. Representatives of the Vincent Estate were successful bidders on the two parcels of land at recent auction sales and an act of sale (deed) is being prepared to effect the conveyances. The naked owners (remaindermen; one of whom is the University of Virginia) and the usufructuary (life income beneficiary) have agreed to pay for the purchase of the two parcels, aggregating approximately $20,000, and all costs incident thereto, out of funds in the Estate of Hugh E. Vincent held in the Trust Department of the Whitney National Bank, New Orleans, Louisiana.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the acquisition from the City of New Orleans, Louisiana by the naked owners and the usufructuary of the Estate of Hugh E. Vincent of two parcels of property bordering respectively on the intersections of Poydras and Carroll Streets and Poydras and Carondelet Streets in the City of New Orleans, be and it is hereby approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the University of Virginia hereby agrees to the payment for such purchases, and all costs incident thereto, out of funds in the Estate of Hugh E. Vincent held in the Trust Department of the Whitney National Bank in New Orleans; andRESOLVED FURTHER that Richard W. Gamble be and he is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed in the name of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to execute any document pertaining to such purchases from the City of New Orleans, in conjunction with the representative of Trinity Church and the representative of Tulane University, naked owners, and the representative of Mrs. Hugh E. Vincent, usufructuary of the Estate of Hugh E. Vincent, under Custodianship of the Whitney National Bank of New Orleans.

NATIONAL BANK BRANCH IN NEWCOMB HALL
------------------------------------

The President reported concerning the establishment of a branch bank facility in Newcomb Hall. Following the Finance Committee's meeting of December 8, 1967, it was determined that legislation was unnecessary for the establishment of a branch bank. Accordingly bids have been received from certain Charlottesville banks and the branch has been awarded on the basis of those bids to the National Bank and Trust Company.

To confirm this action, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President or Comptroller be and either of them hereby is authorized to enter into a lease agreement with the National Bank and Trust Company for the establishment of a branch bank in Newcomb Hall, such lease to be subject to the approval of the University's Special Counsel.

EXCHANGE OF PROPERTY WITH HEDGEROW CORPORATION
----------------------------------------------

The President reported that an agreement had been reached with the Hedgerow Corporation for an exchange of land bordering on the University's Birdwood property. Under the terms of this agreement, the Hedgerow Corporation will convey 11.684 acres to the University in exchange for the University's payment of $13,891.50 and three parcels in Birdwood aggregating 14.879 acres. The University will also grant the Hedgerow Corporation and its principals, Mr. and Mrs. Henderson Heyward, the right to make one six-inch connection to the water main that the University will cause to be laid in Birdwood. The City of Charlottesville will be paid for the water used by Hedgerow Corporation and the Heywards, and the University will be reimbursed for any pumping costs. Also, in connection with this transaction, Mr. and Mrs. Heyward anticipate giving the University a parcel of land at the corner of Deerpath and Canterbury Roads at the juncture of the Bellair Subdivision and the Birdwood tract.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President or Comptroller be and either of them is, with the consent of the Governor first obtained, hereby authorized to pay $13,891.50 and to convey to the Hedgerow Corporation three parcels of land in the University's Birdwood tract aggregating 14.879 acres in exchange for conveyance by the Hedgerow Corporation to the University of an 11.684 acre tract of land near the University's Birdwood tract;RESOLVED FURTHER that such officers are authorized to enter into an agreement with the Hedgerow Corporation and Mr. and Mrs. Henderson Heyward for a connection to the University's water main to be laid in the Birdwood tract, any such agreement to be subject to the approval of the University's Special Counsel.

INCREASE IN HOSPITAL RATES
--------------------------

Type of Accommodation

Number In Each Class

Present Rate

Rate to Become Effective on 14 October 1968

Private rooms

34

$39.00

$47.00

Private rooms

12

40.00

48.00

Private rooms

8

41.00

49.00

Private rooms

2

48.00

56.00

Mother & Child rooms

10

37.00

45.00

Semi-private, two-bed

280

36.00

44.00

Semi-private, three-bed

24

34.00

42.00

Semi-private, four-bed

76

32.00

40.00

Pediatric beds, all

65

33.00

41.00

Psychiatric, private

9

40.00

50.00

Psychiatric, two-bed

6

37.00

46.00

Psychiatric, three-bed

3

37.00

46.00

Psychiatric, four-bed

20

36.00

44.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the rates for charges for services at the University Hospital as listed below be and they are hereby approved, effective 14 October 1968: Type of AccommodationNumber In Each ClassPresent RateRate to Become Effective on 14 October 1968Private rooms34$39.00$47.00Private rooms1240.0048.00Private rooms841.0049.00Private rooms248.0056.00Mother & Child rooms1037.0045.00Semi-private, two-bed28036.0044.00Semi-private, three-bed2434.0042.00Semi-private, four-bed7632.0040.00Pediatric beds, all6533.0041.00Psychiatric, private940.0050.00Psychiatric, two-bed637.0046.00Psychiatric, three-bed337.0046.00Psychiatric, four-bed2036.0044.00

COMPTROLLER'S SUPPLEMENTARY RETIREMENT ANNUITY
----------------------------------------------

The Board at its meeting on 20 April 1963 adopted a resolution establishing a supplemental retirement annuity plan for the Comptroller, Mr. Vincent Shea, following his retirement under University regulations at the age of 65. This resolution provided that the monies for this purpose were to be paid from endowment funds of the University. By action of the Board at its meeting on 16 October 1964, the annuity plan was terminated effective 31 August 1964. At its meeting on 7 June 1968 the Board instructed the Finance Committee to review retirement benefits for the Comptroller and to submit its recommendations to the Board. The Finance Committee at its meeting on 2 October 1968 unanimously recommended restoring the retirement annuity plan for the Comptroller originally established by the Board on 20 April 1963. After discussion, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the supplemental retirement annuity plan for the Comptroller, Mr. Vincent Shea, as set forth in a resolution of the Board at its meeting on 20 April 1963 is hereby re-enacted, effective 1 July 1968; such plan, as amended by the effective date, being incorporated in the minutes of this meeting by reference to the Board's resolution of 20 April 1963.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty at Mary Washington College:Mr. Otho C. Campbell as Instructor in History, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Gene Chu as Instructor in Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Madeline Cohen as Instructor in Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Sonja Dragomanovic as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation (Dance), one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. John P. Johnson as Instructor in Art, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Linda Rae Ladner as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Cynthia M. Mavrides as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Joao Claudio Todorov as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Susan K. White as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of

CANCELLATION OF ELECTION OF MISS LORRAINE M. COWALL
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Miss Lorraine M. Cowall as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of , as approved by the Board on 7 June 1968, be and it is hereby cancelled.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby granted leaves of absence:Mr. Raiford E. Sumner, Professor of Political Science, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, with one-half pay, to complete research and study on British Honduras.Mr. Daniel H. Woodward, Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, with one-half pay, to undertake full time professional training in Library Science at Catholic University in Washington, D. C.

CANCELLATION OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the leave of absence approved for Miss Alice Fischer by the Board at its meeting on 19 April 1968 be and it is hereby cancelled.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Miss Alice Fischer, Assistant Professor of Art, effective 30 January 1969.Mr. Robert D. Kinsman, Assistant Professor of Art and Director of Exhibitions, effective 30 June 1968, to accept a position at the State University of New York, Albany, New York.Miss Jane A. Martin, Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, effective 17 July 1968, to be married.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Paul C. Slayton, Jr. as Chairman of the Department of Education, for the period 1 July 1968 through 31 August 1971.Mr. Daniel H. Woodward as Professor of English and Librarian of the College, effective 1 July 1969, upon the receipt of the degree in Library Science from Catholic University, Washington, D. C.

REPORT ON ENROLLMENT
--------------------

The Chancellor reported on the opening enrollment for the 1968-1969 academic session.

MASTER SITE PLAN
----------------

The Chairman of the Mary Washington College Committee, Mr. Walker, reported that the Mary Washington College Committee and the Buildings and Grounds Committee at their meetings on 2 October 1968 had approved the Master Site Plan for Mary Washington College as presented at that time. He stated further that an officially approved Master Site Plan was needed in order for the Governor's Office to allocate $18,500 to the College for the purchase of the Biscoe Property. He therefore proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Master Site Plan for Mary Washington College as presented to and approved by the Mary Washington College Committee and the Buildings and Grounds Committee be and it is hereby approved.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty:Mrs. Betty M. Humphreys as Instructor in Business, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of

CHANGE IN THE TERM OF ELECTION OF MR. REX BAIRD
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Rex Baird as Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, as approved by the Board on 19 April 1968, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Rex Baird as Professor of Biology, effective 1 September 1968.

CHANGE IN THE TERM OF APPOINTMENT OF MR. REX BAIRD
--------------------------------------------------

The following change in appointment was announced: Mr. Rex Baird as Chairman, Department of Biology, for five years, effective 1 September 1968.

LOAN FOR DORMITORY BUILDING AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------

(1) Resolution Ratifying Execution of College Housing Loan Application

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a public educational institution of higher learning, organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, (herein called the "University"), has submitted an application dated 30 April 1968 to the United States of America, acting by and through the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, (herein called "HUD"), for a loan for the construction of a dormitory at Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia, Wise, Virginia pursuant to Title IV of the Housing Act of 1950, as amended.RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the College Housing Loan Application dated 30 April 1968 executed in the name and on behalf of the University, by Vincent Shea, Comptroller, together with any subsequent amendments thereto, submitted to HUD for loan assistance under Title IV of the Housing Act of 1950, as amended, for construction of a dormitory at Clinch Valley College, Wise, Virginia, be and it hereby is ratified and approved.

(2) Resolution Approving and Authorizing Execution of Assurance of Compliance

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Regulations of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (hereinafter called "the Department") issued pursuant to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (P.L. 88-352) require every contract for Federal financial assistance to be accompanied by an assurance that the program or activity to be carried out will be conducted in compliance with the said Regulations to the end that no person in the Unites States shall, on the ground of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance from the Department.NOW, THEREFORE, Be it Resolved by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia as follows:1. The University of Virginia hereby approves the Assurance of Compliance with the Department's Regulations under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Form HUD-41901) received from the Department.2. Vincent Shea, Comptroller, is hereby authorized to execute on behalf of the Institution the aforesaid Assurance of Compliance and deliver the same to the Department together with a certified copy of this Resolution.3. This Resolution shall take effect immediately.

ARCHITECTS FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE PROJECTS
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the architects listed for the following projects at Clinch Valley College be and they are hereby approved: (1) Faculty Housing - Charles McElroy, Wise, Virginia; (2) Dormitory (Phase II) - Charles McElroy, Wise, Virginia; (3) Classroom-Administration Building - Oliver and Smith, Norfolk, Virginia; and (4) Maintenance Building - Charles McElroy, Wise, Virginia.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Miss May C. Abbud as Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. George E. Andrykovitch as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Paul M. Arriola as Associate Professor of Spanish, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Virginia L. Austin as Assistant Professor of Education, for two years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Marjory F. Azarowicz as Lecturer in Education, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Anne J. Banks as Instructor in Art, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mrs. Anne D. Cordero as Assistant Professor of French, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Janice F. Delaney as Lecturer in English, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mrs. Margaret C. Duffner as Lecturer in Speech, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mrs. Christine W. Eassa as Instructor in Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Esther N. Elstum as Lecturer in German, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Richard T. Hise as Lecturer in Business Administration, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Robert W. Houston as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Joseph M. Kanyan as Lecturer in Music, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mr. Francis-Paul LeBeau as Instructor in French, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mr. Alfred G. Lieberman as Lecturer in Applied Mechanics, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mr. William H. McFarlane as Professor of Philosophy, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Naomi M. Reder as Lecturer in Music, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Miss Maxine Richardson as Lecturer in Health and Physical Education, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Jay C. Shaffer as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. James M. Snyder as Associate Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. William P. Tsow as Lecturer in History, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mrs. Grace M. Wakefield as Lecturer in Sociology, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby reelected to the faculty:Mr. Ted R. Bradley as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mrs. Nancy C. Brooks as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Robert F. Cozzens as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. William B. Dominick as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mrs. Arlette R. Evans as Assistant Professor of French, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Ruth A. Flint as Acting Assistant Professor of Biology, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mrs. Helen S. Garson as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Angela J. Khoury as Assistant Professor of Government, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Michael J. McDermott as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Miss E. Jean McKeithen as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. George W. Mushrush as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Dimitrios A. Papaconstantopoulos as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mrs. Evelyn L. Pugh as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mrs. Lorraine A. Schlesinger as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. John M. Smith as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Miss Eleanor Souville as Assistant Professor of French, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Frank M. Spindler as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mrs. Melissa S. Stanley as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mrs. Aileen S. Walls as Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mr. Richard A. Gleissner, Instructor, to Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following member be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Michael J. McDermott, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one semester, effective 1 September 1968, without pay, to continue his graduate work toward the doctorate in Philosophy at Georgetown University.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Mary K. Cabell, from Lecturer in Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Edmund D. Cohen, from Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, to Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Hubert M. Cole, Associate Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Stephen T. Early, Jr., Professor of Political Science, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Hyman I. Feinstein, Associate Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert C. Gibson, Professor of Education, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. James L. Jackson, Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert E. Karlson, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mrs. Eugenie V. Mielczarek, Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Weber H. Peterson, Associate Professor of Economics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Raymond H. Spuhler, Assistant Professor of Physical Education, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Lorin A. Thompson, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert A. Turner, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work and for administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. C. Robert Walter, Jr., Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. James A. Dinnan, Associate Professor of Education, effective 30 June 1968, to undertake a research project for U. S. Agency for International Development.Mr. Richard H. Pierce, Associate Professor of Accounting, effective 30 June 1968, to accept a position in Daytona Beach, Florida.Mr. H. Mebane Turner, Associate Professor of Biblical Literature, effective 15 September 1968, to accept a position at the University of Baltimore.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. William H. McFarlane as Chairman, Department of Humanities, for five years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert A. Turner as Dean of Students, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.

GRANT FOR ARTS AND SCIENCES CLASSROOM BUILDING AT GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President or Comptroller be and either of them is hereby authorized to apply to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare for a grant under Title I of Public Laws 88-204 (Higher Education Facilities Act of 1963 as amended) to be used for the construction of the Arts and Sciences Classroom Building at George Mason College.

LEASE OF TALLWOOD PROPERTY AT GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------------

The President reported that an agreement had been reached for the lease by George Mason College of two parcels of property in the City of Fairfax, Virginia, containing respectively 6 and 1.06 acres, and known as the Tallwood Property, from the George Mason College Foundation, Inc.

To confirm this action, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Chancellor of George Mason College of the University of Virginia, be and he hereby is authorized to enter into a lease on behalf of the George Mason College of the University of Virginia with the George Mason College Foundation, Inc. for two parcels of improved real estate located in the City of Fairfax, Virginia, containing respectively 6 acres and 1.06 acres, upon the terms and conditions heretofore negotiated with such Foundation; provided, however, that such lease shall be subject to the approval of the University's Special Counsel.

INSTITUTIONAL SELF-STUDY BY GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
------------------------------------------------

The President stated that the time is at hand for an institutional self-study by George Mason College as required by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. He stated further that the self-study is of such significance in the development of George Mason College that the Board should give its full endorsement to the study.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby endorse the institutional self-study by George Mason College as required by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools and authorize the President to provide for the conduct of the study beginning in the fall of 1968.

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICEELECTIONS
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Richard W. Hislop as Lecturer in General Studies, for the period 15 July 1968 to 31 August 1969, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of Mr. Allen R. Mickelsen as Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Wendell M. Lewis, Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective 1 July 1968, without pay, to continue work on his dissertation and conclude a doctoral program at the University of Chicago.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Richard W. Hislop as Assistant Director, Central Virginia Regional Office, School of General Studies, for the period 15 July 1968 through 31 August 1969.Mr. Allen R. Mickelsen as Director, Urban and Community Services, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.

EASTERN SHORE BRANCH OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTIONS
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Theodore W. Graves, Jr., as Instructor in Speech and Drama, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Richard E. Jenkins, Jr., as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Richard C. Hatfield as Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.

HAMPTON ROADS REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESLEAVE OF ABSENCE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. William H. McFarlane, Lecturer in Philosophy, for two months, effective 1 July 1968, without pay, to accept a position with the North Carolina Board of Higher Education.

MADISON REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTIONS
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Peter F. Green as Instructor in English, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mr. Maurice S. Mathews, Jr., as Instructor in Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of Mr. William A. Neustadt as Instructor in History, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mr. Lowell T. Young as Instructor in History, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Maurice S. Mathews, Jr., as Director, Madison Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.

PATRICK HENRY COLLEGE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTIONS
---------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. John E. Buck, Jr., as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Milton Davis as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mrs. Marie M. Garrett as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Jeanne R. Nostrandt as Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of

SOUTHWESTERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Curtis L. Ramsey as Lecturer in General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1968, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Curtis L. Ramsey as Director, Southwestern Virginia Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.