 TEI to HTML

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 3 October 1969
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:15 a.m. on 3 October 1969 in the Office of the President at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Frank W. Rogers; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Barrett, Birdsong, Brown, Cross, J. Hartwell Harrison, W. Harrison, Johnson, Kendig, Kuykendall, McConnell, Parrish, Potter, Walker, and Wheatley. Absent: Visitor Wilkinson. Mr. Grellet C. Simpson was present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters and coeducation. Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. was present throughout the meeting. Upon recommendation of the President, and with the approval of the Board, Mr. Frank L. Hereford was invited to be present throughout the meeting.

The minutes of the meeting of 6 June 1969, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Conrad M. Arensberg as Visiting Professor of Anthropology, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, at a salary of $.Miss Elma L. Baker as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. H. LeRoss Browne as Lecturer in Commerce, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Virginia T. Brubaker as Instructor in Nursing, one-half time, for one year, effective 8 September 1969, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Wilton R. Bunch as Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective 1 August 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. David W. Caley as Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective 15 June 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Reuben Clark as Lecturer in Law, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of $.Mr. Kenneth W. Clarkson as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Logan V. Cockrum as Visiting Associate Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Michael H. Coopersmith as Associate Professor of Physics, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Eldon H. Crowell as Lecturer in Law, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, at a salary of $.Dr. Mounir Dafashy as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for one year, effective 16 September 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Paul A. Dobosh as Junior Instructor in Chemistry, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Sylvia J. Dunn as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 8 September 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Edgar A. Eldridge as Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. Peter F. Ganz as Visiting Professor of German, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Richard H. Goodman as Junior Instructor in Applied Mathematics, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of $.Mr. Charles S. Green, III, as Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Joshua G. Harvey as Visiting Associate Professor of Architecture, part-time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of $.Dr. Hilton O. Hedrick as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for one year, effective 1 August 1969.Mr. George M. Hornberger as Acting Assistant Professor of Geology, for one year, effective 1 February 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Ralph W. Ingersoll as Associate Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 October 1969, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Ruthard J. Jacob as Visiting Assistant Professor of Physiology, for the period 1 July 1969 through 30 November 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Elizabeth J. Johnson as Instructor in Education, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work.Mr. Harold B. Johnson, Jr., as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Angela C. Joseph as Instructor in Nursing, one-half time, for one year, effective 8 September 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Johnny Lee Junkins as Acting Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for one year, effective 1 January 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Charles R. Keller as Lecturer in City Planning, part-time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of $.Miss Anna Belle Kinney as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Diane M. Komp as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Robert G. Langdon as Professor of Biochemistry, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Jen-shih Lee as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Dan H. Lorenz as Visiting Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Virginia C. McCartney as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 8 September 1969, at an annual salary of $.Miss Diane McChesney as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 8 September 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Archie McNab as Visiting Associate Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Miss Mary I. Murchison as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective 8 September 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Charles H. Murphy as Visiting Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for two weeks, effective 6 October 1969, at a salary of $.Mr. Timothy D. Murphy as Acting Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. David F. Noble as Lecturer in Civil Engineering, part-time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of $.Mr. Carlos Ramos-Gil as Visiting Associate Professor of Spanish, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. George H. Reese as Professor of Humanistic Sources, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Herbert C. Richards as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. M. Jack Rinehart, Jr., as Visiting Lecturer of Architecture, part-time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of $.Mr. Kenneth L. Rinker as Associate Professor of Nursing, effective 1 September 1969.Mrs. Marion W. Ross as Lecturer in Linguistics, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of $.Mr. Andrew T. Sammataro as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Jerome R. Saroff as Associate Professor of City Planning, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Samuel L. Sharp as Visiting Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of $.Miss Laura Chi Shen as Visiting Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Frank P. Sherwood as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, one-third time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of $.Mr. Donald D. Shillady as Junior Instructor in Chemistry, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Henry A. Smith, III, as Assistant Professor of German, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Mi-Soo B. Smith as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Dr. Jurgen Stegemann as Visiting Research Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for three months, effective 15 July 1969, at a salary of $.Mr. William Steinberg as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective 1 October 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Terrence A. Wakeman as Lecturer in City Planning, part-time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of $.Mr. David S. Watt as Junior Instructor in Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Michael G. Wilkins as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering and of Physiology, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Charles A. Woodbury, Jr., as Visiting Associate Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.

ELECTION OF MR. LELAND B. YEAGER AS PAUL GOODLOE MCINTIRE PROFESSOR OF ECONOMICS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Leland B. Yeager be and he is hereby elected as Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $23,000.

ELECTION OF LIBRARIANS TO FACULTY RANKMEDICAL SCHOOL LIBRARIANSLAW SCHOOL LIBRARIANS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following members of the library staff of the University be and they are hereby elected to the General Faculty:Mrs. Alice G. Bauer, to rank as Assistant Professor, at an annual salary of $, effective 15 September 1969.Mr. Edmund Berkeley, Jr., Archivist B, to rank as Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.Mrs. Leslie F. Bjorncrantz, Librarian A, to rank as Junior Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.Mrs. Patricia S. Busselle, Librarian A, to rank as Junior Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.Mrs. Helen K. Carlin, as Junior Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 18 August 1969.Miss Joan S. Crane, Archivist B, to rank as Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.Mr. Alexander C. Crosman, Jr., Librarian A, to rank as Junior Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.Mr. Curtis W. Garrison, to rank as Junior Instructor, one-half time, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1969.Miss Vesta L. Gordon, Librarian A, to rank as Junior Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.Mrs. Jean T. Hamrick, Science Information Specialist, to rank as Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.Miss Cornelia A. Kelley, Librarian B, to rank as Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.Mrs. Nancy C. Olmstead, to rank as Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1969.Mrs. Lloydanne H. Pearson, to rank as Junior Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 16 September 1969.Mrs. Angelika S. Powell, Librarian B, to rank as Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.Mr. William G. Ray, Archivist A, to rank as Junior Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.Mrs. Inese A. Smith, to rank as Junior Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 16 September 1969.Miss Kathleen Smith, to rank as Junior Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.Miss Ann L. Stauffenberg, to rank as Junior Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1969.Miss Mary Louise Thomas, to rank as Junior Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 16 September 1969.Miss Sharon A. Vandercook, to rank as Junior Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.Mr. John E. Via, Archivist B, to rank as Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.Mr. James W. Waller, Librarian A, to rank as Junior Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.Mr. Richard T. Wang, Librarian A, to rank as Junior Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 4 August 1969.Mrs. Jean M. Zweifel, Librarian A, to rank as Junior Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE ELECTION OF MR. CARLOS VILLAR-PALASI
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Mr. Carlos Villar-Palasi as Associate Professor of Pharmacology, as approved by the Board on 6 June 1969, be changed from 1 August 1969 to 1 July 1969.

CHANGE IN THE TERM OF ELECTION OF DR. WILLIAM C. CONSTABLE
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the term of the election of Dr. William C. Constable as Associate Professor of Radiology, as approved by the Board on 4 October 1968, be changed to read as follows:Dr. William C. Constable as Associate Professor of Radiology, effective 15 August 1968.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Charles F. Baldwin as Diplomat in Residence, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Ronald L. Crawford as Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine, for three years, effective 1 August 1969.Mr. S. Herbert Frankel as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Mark A. Melton as Visiting Associate Professor of Geography, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970.Mr. C. Stewart Sheppard as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, three-fifths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. David D. Stone as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Dr. Benjamin C. Sturgill as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Johannes H. van der Merwe as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, for the period 1 December 1969 through 31 July 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. James M. Waller as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Edward A. Wayne as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, part-time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. W. Walker Cowen, Lecturer, to Associate Professor of English, for five years, effective 1 July 1969, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Dr. William H. Grev, Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Hobart G. Hansen, Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Alexander B. Horniman, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Carl R. Showalter, Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Albert P. Spaar, Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. A. Nelson Yarbrough, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and of Surgery, for one year, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of $.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 5 JUNE 1969
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the promotion of Miss Frances Farmer, as approved by the Board on 5 June 1969, be changed to read as follows:Miss Frances Farmer, Associate Professor and Law Librarian, to Professor and Law Librarian, effective 1 August 1969, at a session salary o$,20for summer work, or a total salary of $.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Dr. Stuart H. Bartle, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and of Surgery, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, without pay, to continue training in psychiatry, in New York.Mrs. Zula MaBice, Associate Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, without pay, for personal reasons.Mr. Roger H. Clark, Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, without pay, to accept a visiting professorship at North Carolina State University.Mr. Harold M. Hochman, Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, without pay, to become a member of the research staff of the Urban Institute in Washington.Mr. Lauren G. Leighton, Assistant Professor of Russian, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, without pay, to participate in an exchange program with the Soviet Union under the US-USSR Academic Exchange Grant Program.Mr. Sang Boo Nam, Assistant Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, without pay, for teaching and research, Seoul National University.Dr. Robert F. Selden, Jr., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period 1 September 1969 through 31 March 1970, without pay, to continue postdoctoral training at the Albany Medical College.Mr. PS. Shoup, Associate ProfessorGovernment and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, without pay, to accept a Fught-Hayes Area andLanguage Fellowship.Mr. Jack Wakley, Assistant Professor of Radiology, for the period 1 September 1969 through 7 August 1970, without pay, to continue study for the Ph.D. at Johns Hopkins University.Mr. H. Kenneth White, Associate Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, without pay, to accept a visiting professorship, California State Polytechnic College, San Luis Obispo, California.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Lillie O. Chang, from Assistant Professor of Radiology (Radiobiology and Biophysics), to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Radiology (Radiobiology and Biophysics), for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Charles M. Heuchert, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Manuel Lassaletta, from Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, to Assistant Professor of Spanish, for two years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Michael B. McMahon, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mrs. Edith K. Mosher, from Lecturer in Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $10,500.Mr. Raymond J. Nelson, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Alan H. Strahler, from Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of Geography, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Alan B. Williamson, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Donald J. Wright, from Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Biomedical Engineering and Assistant to the Dean of Medicine for Biomedical Communications, to Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Biomedical Engineering, Director of the Medical Center Computer Center, and Assistant to the Chancellor for Medical Affairs for Communications, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. James A. Arnold, Jr., Assistant Professor of French, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Fredson T. Bowers, Linden Kent Memorial Professor of English, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. James L. Camp, III, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Inis L. Claude, Jr. Edward R. Stettinius Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at an annual salary of $34,000, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Fredrick Davidson, Assistant Professor of Commerce at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. James N. Dent, Professor of Biology, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Robert Denomme, Associate Professor of French, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. William A. Elwood, Assistant Professor of English, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $, effective 1 October 1969.Mr. Kenneth G. Elzinga, Assistant Professor of Economics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Nathaniel M. Ewell, Jr., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Ray W. Frantz, Jr., Professor and University Librarian, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $ for administration, or a total salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Russell N. Grimes, Associate Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Andrew D. Hart, Jr., Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. John K. Haviland, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Associate Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of $, plus $ for summer work, or a total salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. David C. Jordan, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Graham C. Lilly, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Jerry L. Mashaw, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Frank C. McCue, III, Associate Professor of Orthopedics, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1969.Dr. Robert E. McLaughlin, Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.Mr. John H. Moore, Assistant Professor of Economics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Alfon B. Mosca, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Kenneth G. Peterson, Associate Professor and Associate Librarian, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Edwin W. Pullen, Associate Professor of Anatomy, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1969.Dr. Frank M. Ripberger, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. John T. Roberts, Assistant Professor of Hindi, at a session salary of $ effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Vincent Shea, Professor and Comptroller, at an annual salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $ effective 1 July 1969.Dr. Ian P. Stevenson, Alumni Professor of Psychiatry, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1969.Dr. Roby C. Thompson, Jr., Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Jennings L. Wagoner, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Don L. Walker, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Stephen L. Wangensteen, Associate Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Thomas L. Wheelen, Assistant Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Miss Roy C. Beazley, Professor of Nursing, effective 30 September 1969. Miss Beazley has been a member of the staff of the University since 1930.Mr. Victor G. F. Reynolds, Professor and Director, University Press of Virginia, effective 31 October 1969. Mr. Reynolds, who has been a member of the staff of the University since 1963, will serve as part-time Lecturer in the Department of Environmental Sciences, for one semester, effective February 1970.

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Miss Roy C. Beazley, Professor of Nursing, who retires in September 1969, and has been on the staff of the University since 1930.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. William G. Batte, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at Old Dominion College.Mr. Roger V. Bennett, Assistant Professor of Education, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at the University of Maryland.Mr. James D. Bryden, Assistant Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at Bloomsburg State College, Pennsylvania.Mr. Jackie O. Bunting, Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, effective 30 June 1969, for personal reasons.Mr. Alberto P. di Pierro, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective 30 June 1969, to remain in Italy.Mr. Edwin E. Floyd, Chairman, Department of Mathematics, effective 31 August 1969, to devote full time to teaching and research.Mr. John K. Haviland as Director, Division of Space Science, Virginia Associated Research Center, effective 30 June 1969, to devote full time to teaching and research.Mr. Edward A. Kolodziej as Chairman, Department of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective 30 June 1969, to devote full time to teaching and research.Mr. Roger Orkin, Associate Professor of Architecture, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at Syracuse University.Mrs. Shelby F. Shires, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective 31 August 1969, as she is moving from the area.Mr. Richard W. Stream, Assistant Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a Postdoctoral Research Fellowship from the National Institute of Neurological Diseases and Blindness.Dr. J. Edwin Wood, III, Professor of Internal Medicine and Associate Dean, School of Medicine, effective 31 July 1969, to accept a position as Chief of Medicine, the Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadelphia, and Professor of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

In accordance with the resolution adopted by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, the following appointments were announced: Lt. Kyle T. Lynn as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective August 1969.Captain Frederick C. Perry, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Military Science, effective September 1969.Captain Cordell F. Ragland as Assistant Professor of Air Science, for three years, effective 1 January 1970.Lt. Frederick L. Rudell as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective August 1969.Lt. Merle A. Waugaman as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for three years, effective August 1969.

The following appointments were also announced: Mr. Adriaan Blaauw as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one month, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Robert V. Coleman as Chairman, Department of Physics, for the period 1 August 1969 through 31 January 1970.Mr. Michael H. Coopersmith as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Richard J. Coughlin as Chairman, Department of Sociology and Anthropology, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. W. Walker Cowen as Director, University Press of Virginia, for five years, effective 1 November 1969.Mr. Robert Dolan as Chairman, Department of Environmental Sciences, for four years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Judah M. Eisenberg as Chairman, Department of Physics, for five years, effective 1 February 1970.Mr. Edgar A. Eldridge as Associate Director, Office of Placement, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. William A. Elwood as Assistant to the President for Special Programs, for the period 1 October 1969 through 30 June 1972.Mr. Walter D. Fletcher as Counselor in Residence, School of Law, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Dr. James T. Hamlin, III, as Assistant Dean, School of Medicine, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Dr. Marion K. Humphries,., as Chairman, Department of Ophthalmology, for two years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Ralph W. Ingersoll as Assistant Dean, School of Medicine, and Assistant to the Chancellor for Medical Affairs, for two years, effective 1 October 1969.Mrs. Elizabeth J. Johnson as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. David C. Jordan as Chairman, Department of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Dr. Daniel N. Mohler, Jr., as Acting Chairman, Department of Internal Medicine, for two months, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. George H. Reese as Chairman, Department of Humanistic Sources, Director, Center for Textual and Editorial Studies in Humanistic Sources, and Associate Editor, Papers of George Washington, for five years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Marvin Rosenblum as Chairman, Department of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Marvin S. Schindler as Assistant Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective 15 August 1969.Mr. Johannes H. van der Merwe as a Member, Center for Advances Studies, for the period 1 December 1969 through 31 July 1970.Mr. William S. Willis as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for the period 1 September 1969 through 30 June 1970.

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Commander Angus MacCaulay as Associate Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective September 1969.

DEATH OF MR. GORDON T. WHYBURN
------------------------------

JOHN EDWARD FOWLER PROFESSORSHIP IN CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGY
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Medicine to be known as the John Edward Fowler Professorship in Clinical Psychology.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CENTER FOR TEXTUAL AND EDITORIAL STUDIES IN HUMANISTIC SOURCES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced the establishment of the Center for Textual and Editorial Studies in Humanistic Sources in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.

FORMATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES
-----------------------------------------------------

The President announced the merging of the Departments of Geography and Geology to form a new Department of Environmental Sciences in the College of Arts and Sciences and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program.

REPORT ON THE SESQUICENTENNIAL PROGRAM
--------------------------------------

Mr. B. F. D. Runk presented a report on the current status of the Sesquicentennial Program.

REPORT ON ADMISSIONS AND ENROLLMENT
-----------------------------------

The President reported on admissions and enrollment for the academic year 1969-1970.

THE MOUNTAIN LAKE CONFERENCE
----------------------------

The President reported on the meeting of students and members of the administrative staff held at the Mountain Lake Biological Station on 12-14 September 1969. Mr. Johnson, who attended the conference, reported that in his opinion the meeting was effective and that it formed a useful exchange of information among the administration, faculty, and students.

ADMISSION OF WOMEN TO THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
------------------------------------------------------

The Educational Policy Committee referred to the full Board without recommendation the plan for the admission of women to the College of Arts and Sciences. After considerable discussion a motion was made by Mr. Wheatley and seconded by Mr. Walker that the following resolution be and it is hereby adopted: WHEREAS, at its meeting on 15 February 1969 the Board of Visitors received the 31 January 1969 report of the standing Committee on the Future of the University as to the Feasibility and Means of Admitting Women to the College of Arts and Sciences at Charlottesville;WHEREAS, at such meeting the Board voted to remove the restrictions previously placed on the admission of women to the undergraduate schools at Charlottesville and directed, inter alia, the President to prepare a plan for such admission to become effective 1 September 1970, such plan to be formulated generally in accordance with the principles recommended in the report of the Committee on the Future of the University;WHEREAS, on 29 May 1969, Civil Action No. CA-220-69-R was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, Richmond Division, by Mrs. Jo Anne Kirstein, et al, against The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, the Governor, and others, which action, inter alia, maintains that the constitutional rights of the plaintiffs and class of women which they represent have been denied because the University has precluded their admission to the College of Arts and Sciences.WHEREAS, by order of 8 September 1969 the United States District Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr. ordered, inter alia, the University to consider applications of certain of the plaintiffs without regard to the applicants' sex and to admit the applicants should they meet the necessary requirements as prescribed for all other applicants to the College, and pursuant thereto the University considered the application for admission of Miss Virginia Anne Scott and deemed her eligible for admission, whereby she enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences;WHEREAS, by order of a three-judge court composed of United States Circuit Judge J. Braxton Craven, Jr. and District Judges Robert R. Merhige, Jr. and John M. Mackensie dated 30 September 1969, such court has indicated its concern, without deciding the question, as to the constitutionality of the University's previous policy in restricting the admission of women to the College of Arts and Sciences at Charlottesville and has ordered, inter alia, the President of the University of Virginia to file with Judge Merhige by 31 October 1969 the plan finally adopted by the University of Virginia for the implementing of coeducation in the College of Arts and Sciences, and a report of progress and implementation of such plan; andWHEREAS, pursuant to the Board's resolution of 15 February 1969 the President has transmitted to the Board a report of the Committee on the Future of the University on the admission of women to the College of Arts and Sciences and the undergraduate schools at Charlottesville, and the Board having considered such report in light of the pending court action deems it necessary to reject the plan for admission of such women set forth in the report and to adopt a different plan;WHEREAS, the Board desires to make absolutely clear its intent in removing the restriction on the admission of women to the College of Arts and Sciences and the other schools at Charlottesville, and pursuant to the court order dated 30 September 1969 desires hereby to adopt a plan for such admission;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia:

(a) that in lieu of paragraphs (1) - (4), inclusive, of its resolution of 15 February 1969 on the admission of women appearing at page 100 of its minutes, the following paragraph is substituted nunc pro tunc and represents and hereby is declared to be then and now the policy of the University of Virginia:

"That the restrictions heretofore placed on the admission of women to the undergraduate schools at Charlottesville be and they hereby are unconditionally removed, so that there be no restriction on admission of women applicants to the University of Virginia at Charlottesville, including, without limitation, its College of Arts and Sciences and other undergraduate schools, other than the same restrictions imposed upon male applicants for admission to such schools, provided, only, that the number of women may be limited during such temporary transition period as may be determined necessary by the Board for the implementation of this resolution; and that all such applicants shall be considered irrespective of their sex;"

(b) that the report of the Committee on the Future of the University on the Admission of Women to the College of Arts and Sciences and the undergraduate schools at Charlottesville (entitled "Report on the Feasibility and Means of the Admission of Women to the College") together with the minority report of Kevin L. Mannix, be received and filed;

(c) that the University is committed to provide the best possible educational experience for all of its students; that as the adjustments necessitated by significant numbers of women predicted to be hereafter in attendance in the College of Arts and Sciences at Charlottesville are impossible of precise forecast, a transition period during the academic sessions 1970-71 and 1971-72 is thus deemed necessary; and to this end the President is instructed to direct the Dean of Admissions at the University of Virginia at Charlottesville to offer admission to such women applicants as may be qualified, and to so many as can reasonably be expected to result in the enrollment for the academic sessions of 1970-71 and 1971-72 of approximately: (i) 450 women in the academic session commencing in September 1970 and (ii) an additional 550 women in the academic session beginning September 1971 (such that the total estimated enrollment of women in the 1971-72 session will be 1000); and that for each academic session beginning with the 1972-73 session, there shall be no limitation on the number of women to be admitted either as entering or transfer students within the overall limitation of the total number of all such male and female entering or transfer students; and that this constitutes the University of Virginia's plan for the admission of women as required by order of the special three-judge federal court dated 30 September 1969.

Following the adoption of the resolution on the Admission of Women to the College of Arts and Sciences, Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson reported on the possible affects of the court action on the status of Mary Washington College. After discussion the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that at the next session of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia, the President is authorized and directed to request appropriate legislators to introduce legislation to delete the phrase "for women" from the Code of Virginia Section 23-86 pertaining to Mary Washington College, and to introduce conforming amendments to associated sections of the Code.

ELECTION OF RECTORS
-------------------

Mr. Lewis Walker, chairman of the special committee to consider the election of rectors, noted that the Rector's term expires on 28 February 1970 and Code of Virginia Section 23-74 requires the Board of Visitors to appoint a rector at the first meeting after such date. This may leave a period during which no rector is in office. After considerable discussion the Board agreed to postpone further consideration of this matter to the next regular meeting.

DISCOVERY OF LISTENING DEVICE
-----------------------------

During the course of the meeting an object dropped from the underside of the table, striking Mrs. Brown as it fell. It was established that the object was an unauthorized electronic eavesdropping device. The device was immediately removed from the Board Room by the Secretary.

The following resolution was unanimously adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Security Department of the University or an outside agency investigate and make a report to the Board of Visitors at the December meeting on the unauthorized listening device which was discovered in the Board Room on 3 October 1969.

ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS FOR THE PRESIDENT'S ABSENCE
-----------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that the President has been assigned duties away from the University during the months of November and December.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President's recommendation that the Provost serve in the President's stead and on his behalf as chief executive and academic officer of the University during the President's absence or other unavailability, the Provost having during such period the same powers and duties as the President, is approved.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$ 87,006.33

Free service to Counties and Cities

491,866.78

\-----------

Total

$578,873.11

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1732, 1733, 1736, 1737, 1739, 1740, 1747, 1748, 1751, and 1752, aggregating $578,873.11, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts, etc.$ 87,006.33Free service to Counties and Cities491,866.78-----------Total$578,873.11

UNCOLLECTIBLE STUDENT ACCOUNTS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized, as recommended by it, to charge off the following uncollectible student accounts: Schedule 24, Student Loan Funds, $9,684.75; Schedule 25, Student Accounts, $4,022.00; and Schedule 26, Food Service, $168.75.

REPORT ON THE BIENNIAL BUDGET REQUESTS FOR 1970-72
--------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee at its meeting on 11 August 1969, at which time the Biennial Budget Requests for the University and Hospital Divisions were approved.

REPORT ON ACTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AUTHORIZING AN INCREASE IN THE COMPTROLLER'S SALARY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee at its meeting on 11 August 1969, authorizing an increase in the salary of the Comptroller, Vincent Shea.

INCREASE IN FEE FOR THE VIRGINIA LAW WEEKLY
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that an increase from $5.00 per year to $6.00 per year in the fee collected for the Virginia Law Weekly, effective September 1970, be and it is hereby approved; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the fee collected during the spring semester of the 1969-1970 session be increased by $1.00.

REPORT ON THE RENEWAL OF THE MAJOR DEVELOPMENT GRANT
----------------------------------------------------

The President presented a report on the renewal of the Major Development Grant.

COMPUTER FEE FOR THE GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
---------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that effective 1 September 1969, a required Computer Usage Fee be collected from students in the Graduate School of Business Administration and that it is hereby approved as follows:(1) First year students in the Graduate School of Business Administration will pay a fee of $35.00 per session for up to 10 hours of computer time.(2) Second year and Doctoral students in the Graduate School of Business Administration will pay a fee of $21.00 for up to 6 hours of computer time.

Students in the Graduate School of Business Administration will pay the appropriate fee irrespective of anticipated computer use.

VEPCO EASEMENTS
---------------

The President requested ratification of the conveyance to Virginia Electric and Power Company of certain easements over University property.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED, that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby ratifies the conveyances to Virginia Electric and Power Company of easements to provide electric service to University property in Charlottesville: (1) between Stadium Road and Alderman Road to the University's west side substation; and (2) along the north side of Jefferson Park Avenue across the new entrance to the University Hospital, more complete description of such easements being set forth in the instruments of conveyance.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE CONVEYANCES
--------------------------------

The President reported that the City of Fairfax, Virginia proposed to construct, operate and maintain a utility pumping station on a small tract of land owned by the University and occupied by the George Mason College at Fairfax. The University has been requested to convey to the City the tract of land and an accompanying right of way necessary for this project.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED, by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President or Comptroller be and either of them hereby is authorized to convey to the City of Fairfax, Virginia for the construction, operation, and maintenance of a utility pumping station: (1) with the consent of the Governor first obtained, a certain tract of George Mason College land and (2) an accompanying right of way; a more complete description of such tract and right of way to be set forth in the deeds of conveyance;RESOLVED FURTHER, that the President or Comptroller of the University of Virginia, be and either of them is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, deeds of conveyance granting such property and right of way to the City of Fairfax, Virginia, and that the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of this Board, be and either of them is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to affix the corporate seal of the University of Virginia to such deeds and to attest the same; provided, however, that such deeds when submitted for execution shall have been approved by the University's Special Counsel who is also authorized to take appropriate action to complete these conveyances.

EXECUTION OF INSTRUMENTS FOR REAL ESTATE GENERALLY
--------------------------------------------------

The President reported that, by action of the Board on 10 December 1960, general authority was granted to him and to the Comptroller to execute instruments dealing with real estate or interests in real estate on behalf of The Rector and Visitors. Special Counsel has recommended that such authority be re-enacted and that there be included a specific authorization to such officers to grant easements.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED, by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President and Comptroller be and either of them is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to execute deeds, contracts, options, and other instruments and documents dealing with real estate and interests in real estate, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, including, without limitation, any instruments executed pursuant to Section 23-77.2 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, granting easements for roads, streets, sewers, water lines, electric and other utility lines, or any other purpose, on any property now owned or hereafter acquired by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia; and that the Secretary and Assistant Secretary be and either of them is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to affix the corporate seal of the University of Virginia to such instruments and to attest the same;RESOLVED FURTHER that such instruments when submitted for execution shall have been approved by the University's Special Counsel who is also authorized to take appropriate action to complete these conveyances.

PEYTON PROPERTY
---------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Mr. F. Bradley Peyton, III contracted to purchase a parcel of land on Rugby Road in Charlottesville from the Estate of Mary Garth Peyton, his mother, for the sum of $75,400 and subsequently caused this property to be conveyed to the University in consideration of the sum of $60,000, which acquisition was authorized by the Buildings and Grounds and Finance Committees on 3 April 1969;WHEREAS the difference between Mr. Peyton's contract price with his mother's estate and the University's purchase price from him represents a gift of $15,400 by Mr. Peyton to the University in honor of his mother, Mary Garth Peyton;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the purchase of the Peyton Property on Rugby Road, title to which was conveyed to the University on 1 May 1969, be and the same hereby is approved, ratified, and confirmed;BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that we express to Mr. F. Bradley Peyton, III our sincere thanks for his generosity and direct the Secretary to transmit a copy of this resolution to him as a mark of our deep appreciation.

CARLSON LEGACY
--------------

The President reported that at the Executive Committee's Meeting of 11 August 1969, appropriate officials of the University were authorized to accept a legacy under the Will of Chester F. Carlson. Accordingly, an instrument accepting the legacy has been forwarded to representatives of the Carlson Estate.

TERMINATION OF THE PREVENTORIUM AGREEMENT
-----------------------------------------

The President reported that on 1 August 1969, the Board of Directors of the Virginia Education Association voted to discontinue as of 28 February 1970 the Ennion G. Williams Preventorium at the University of Virginia Hospital, with retired teachers receiving free examinations through 31 October 1969. The VEA felt this was necessary because the Preventorium has served the purposes for which it was initially established and could continue to have only negligible utility in the future.

The Preventorium was established in 1929 by contract dated 13 June 1927 between the University of Virginia and the VEA for the purpose of providing and maintaining hospital service and attention required from time to time by members of the VEA. To that end the University set aside the whole of a floor of the south wing of the new hospital building as then designed. The Preventorium is presently located on Barringer 1 of the Hospital.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia: (1) that the Ennion G. Williams Preventorium at the University Hospital be discontinued as of 28 February 1970, and as part of the phase out of this program, retired teachers shall receive free examinations through 31 October 1969; and (2) that joining with similar action taken by the Virginia Education Association, the contract dated 13 June 1927 between the University and the Association is terminated as of 28 February 1970.

RENTAL PREPAYMENT ON CHANCELLOR'S RESIDENCE AT GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Board of Control for the Counties of Fairfax and Arlington and the Cities of Alexandria and Falls Church has acquired some 571 acres of land in the County of Fairfax, Virginia for George Mason College of the University of Virginia; andWHEREAS, as a consequence of this land acquisition program, eight dwellings suitable as rental units were conveyed by the Board of Control to The Rector and Visitors along with the land; andWHEREAS, the Board of Control has expended the total sum of $32,652.49 to improve and refurbish these rental units, an expenditure which will be returned to the University through rental income; andWHEREAS, the Board of Control requests that this sum of $32,652.49 may be considered as prepayment of rent, at a rate of $2,400 per year for approximately fourteen years, for one of these dwellings serving as a residence for the Chancellor of George Mason College;NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia agrees to treat the $32,652.49 expended by the Board of Control for improvements in the rental dwellings transferred to the University, as prepayment of rent, at the rate of $2,400 per year for approximately fourteen years, for one of these dwellings which will serve as a Chancellor's residence.

WUVA LOAN
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Radio Station WUVA, a non-profit corporation in the State of Virginia operated by students of the University of Virginia be, and it is hereby authorized to borrow from the University of Virginia a sum up to $17,350, with interest to be paid at commercial bank rates, and to be repaid in equal annual installments over a period of three years, repayment to begin one year after the loan is made; the loan, if needed, to be used within one year after the FCC license has been granted to Radio Station WUVA.

MOYSTON ESTATE
--------------

The President reported that under the Will of Roy C. Moyston, the University received a remainderman's interest in a portion of Mr. Moyston's estate which includes natural gas properties at Hobbs, New Mexico, currently owned and operated by Mr. Moyston's widow, Mrs. Vernah S. Moyston, as sole proprietor, doing business as Hobbs Gas Company. Mrs. Moyston also has an interest in the Hobbs properties. It has been suggested that the University might join with Mrs. Moyston in the transfer of the Hobbs properties to a to be formed New Mexico corporation, and to that end the University might convey its remainderman's interest in such properties to the corporation.

After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the adoption of the following resolution: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President and Comptroller be and either of them is hereby authorized to transfer for an appropriate consideration the University's remainderman's interest in properties of the late Roy C. Moyston consisting of natural gas properties of the Hobbs Gas Company at Hobbs, New Mexico.

REPORT ON CIVIL RIGHTS
----------------------

The President reported on the University's progress in the area of civil rights.

REPORT BY STANDING COMMITTEES
-----------------------------

Reports were received on committee actions and other matters from the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, the Educational Policy Committee, the Medical Committee, the Mary Washington College Committee, the Finance Committee, and the Buildings and Grounds Committee.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Miss Barbara Alden as Instructor in Bibliography and Archivist for the College, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Charles D. Balthis as Instructor (Cataloguing), effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Theodore Celenko, Jr. as Instructor in Art (Art History), for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $Mrs. Renna H. Cosner as Assistant Professor (Circulation), effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of $Mr. Ricardo Dobson as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $Mrs. Diane D. Fishman as Instructor (Acquisitions), effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of $Mrs. Michele H. Garskof as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $Mrs. Ainslie Armstrong McLees as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Taketo Ohtani as Instructor (part-time) in Modern Foreign Languages (Japanese), for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Alice Brand Rabson as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Marian Reed Watts as Assistant Professor (Cataloguing), effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Edgar E. Woodward as Professor (Finances), effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of $.

CANCELLATION OF ELECTION OF MR. CLAVIO F. ASCARI
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Clavio F. Ascari as Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Italian), for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $, as approved by the Board on 5 April 1969, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CANCELLATION OF ELECTION OF MRS ROSALIA C. ASCARI
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mrs. Rosalia C. Ascari as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $, as approved by the Board on 5 April 1969, be and it is hereby cancelled.

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Miss Clotilde Dagnino as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Italian), for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 5 APRIL 1969
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mr. John Druzbick as Instructor in Physics, one-fourth time, for one year, as approved by the Board on 5 April 1969, be changed to read as follows:Mr. John Druzbick as Instructor in Physics, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of $.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Miss Barbara Alden, from Lecturer to Instructor in Bibliography and Archivist for the College, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Charles D. Balthis, from Lecturer to Instructor (Cataloguing), effective 1 September 1969.Mrs. Renna H. Cosner, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor (Circulation), effective 1 September 1969.Mrs. Diane D. Fishman, from Lecturer to Instructor (Acquisitions), effective 1 September 1969.Mrs. Emily A. Holloway, from Director of Student Affairs with the academic rank of Lecturer, to Assistant Professor (Director of Student Affairs), effective 1 September 1969.Mrs. Jane N. Saladin, from Registrar and Director of Financial Aid with the academic rank of Lecturer, to Assistant Instructor (Registrar), effective 1 September 1969.Mrs. Marian Reed Watts, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor (Cataloguing), effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Edgar E. Woodward, from Lecturer to Professor (Finances), effective 1 September 1969.

CHANGE IN SALARY OF MISS BARBARA ALDEN
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the salary of Miss Barbara Alden, as approved by the President in his summer action letter, dated 10 July 1969, be changed to read as follows:Miss Barbara Alden, Instructor in Bibliography and Archivist for the College, at an annual salary of $9,600, effective 1 September 1969.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Roy B. Weinstock as Acting Chairman of the Department of Psychology, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.

REPORT ON ADMISSIONS AND ENROLLMENT
-----------------------------------

The Chancellor presented a report on admissions and enrollment for the academic year 1969-1970.

RESIDENCE HALL AT MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the residence halls at Mary Washington College are overcrowded; andWHEREAS the College must vacate eighty spaces as the result of the termination of the Betty Lewis lease; andWHEREAS by 1972-73 about 250 spaces will be needed;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the planning of a residence hall with a capacity of approximately 250 be, and it is hereby authorized; andRESOLVED FURTHER that Mr. H. C. Johnson, Jr., of Fredericksburg, Virginia, be engaged as the architect for the project.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Clinch Valley College:Mr. Jack M. Holland as Associate Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Miss Lillian B. Hutzler as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard M. Lancaster as Instructor in Business, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Iosetta M. Steely as Lecturer in Biology, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.

ELECTION OF LIBRARIANS TO FACULTY RANK
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following members of the library staff of Clinch Valley College be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Miss Neva Y. Gibson, Librarian B, to rank as Junior Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.Mrs. Rosemary P. Mercure, Librarian A, to rank as Junior Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.

ELECTION OF BUSINESS MANAGER TO FACULTY RANK
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty of Clinch Valley College to be listed in the appropriate faculty section of the Clinch Valley College catalogue by the title of position only:Mr. James C. Willis, to rank as Associate Professor, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Mrs. Betty Sue Adelman as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Edwin W. Bishop as Lecturer in Economics, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $Mrs. Zela G. Clairborne as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Siegfried M. Clemens as Lecturer in German, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Marion F. Deshmukh as Lecturer in History, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Robert W. Eaves as Associate Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Jane M. Flinn as Instructor in Physics, one-third time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of $.Mrs. Barbara K. R. Houck as Lecturer in English, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Christopher A. Kakas as Assistant Professor of Art, for two years, effective 1 September, at a session salary of $.Mr. William T. Kiley as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. George I. Loeb as Lecturer in Chemistry, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of $Mr. Ricardo C. Martinez as Lecturer in Economics, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Patricia H. Murrell as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. John A. Quintus as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Emiko Sakurai as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard K. Smith as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Miss Sarah L. Sneed as Lecturer in French, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Howard K. Stokes as Instructor in Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. Nicholas J. Tavani as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Irene M. Vawter as Assistant Professor and Director of Public Information, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. James R. Wall as Associate Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.

ELECTION OF LIBRARIANS TO FACULTY RANK
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following members of the library staff of George Mason College be and they are hereby elected to the General Faculty:Mrs. Carol C. Henderson, to rank as Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1969.Mrs. Alana W. Ho, Librarian A, to rank as Instructor, at an annual salary of $ effective 1 August 1969.Mrs. Mary E. Hood, Librarian B, to rank as Instructor, at an annual salary of $ effective 1 August 1969.Mrs. Youngsook C. Park, Librarian B, to rank as Instructor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 August 1969.

ELECTION OF BUSINESS MANAGER TO FACULTY RANK
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty of George Mason College to be listed in the appropriate faculty section of the George Mason College catalogue by the title of position only:Mr. Henry P. Adams, to rank as Associate Professor for three years, effective 1 August 1969, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Lorin A. Thompson, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. John M. Dunnavant, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $Mr. William L. Goodwin as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of $.

EASTERN SHORE BRANCH OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTIONS
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Ronald L. Buchan as Assistant Professor of Library Science, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. Peter C. Hamner as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.Mr. James D. Indindoli as Instructor in Library Science, for one year, effective 1 August 1969, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. Stanislaw Rola-Szustkiewicz as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer, or a total salary of $.

MADISON REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTION
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. William A. Pruitt as Instructor in History, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of $.

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Peter H. Johnson as Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $.

PATRICK HENRY COLLEGE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTION
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. William D. May as Assistant Professor and Librarian, for one year, effective 1 July 1969, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. George B. Brothers as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, effective 30 June 1969, for personal reasons.

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESRESIGNATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Franklin R. Sibert, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, and Director, Richmond Office, School of General Studies, effective 30 September 1969, to accept the position of Headmaster, General Douglas MacArthur Military Academy, Fort Freedom, New Jersey.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:15 p.m.

RCB:jb