 TEI to HTML

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA October 2, 1970
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 2:30 p.m. on October 2, 1970 in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, Mrs. E. Parker Brown, Richard S. Cross, J. Hartwell Harrison, W. Wright Harrison, J. Sloan Kuykendall, Lawrence Lewis, Jr. Edwin K. Mattern, Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr., Brownie E. Polly, Jr., William S. Potter, and J. Harvie Wilkinson, III. Absent: Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., Donald E. Santarelli, and C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. was present throughout the meeting. Grellet C. Simpson and Michael Houston were present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters, and Vincent Shea was present during the discussion on Research Funds in the State.

The minutes of the meeting of June 5, 1970, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Gary Q. Arpin as Junior Instructor in English, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Mr. Brian M. Austin as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Samuel H. Back as Instructor in Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1970, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. James S. Beaver as Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, for one semester, effective February 1, 1971, at a salary of .Mr. David C. Benjamin as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. Ramon C. Blatt as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. John W. Bowling as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, one-third time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Dr. Richard C. Brown as Instructor in Internal Medicine and Student Health Physician, for one year, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. M. Howard Bryant as Professor of Education, for the period September 1, 1970 through May 31, 1971, at a salary of .Mr. Bruce C. Busching as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for three academic years, effective February 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. Harold Carron as Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective August 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. William Childress as Junior Instructor in Education, three-fourths time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Allen R. Cohen as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective August 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. David A. Cook as Junior Instructor in English, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Mr. Richard P. Cook as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Miss Lorna G. Cooper as Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective October 16, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. Eugene F. Corrigan as Professor of Physical Education, effective January 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mrs. Lee Crigler as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. David H. Cundiff as Junior Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 6, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. Robert D. Dripps, III, as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Albert A. Dunn as Junior Instructor in English, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of Mr. Eleftherios N. Economou as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus for summer work in 1971 and 1972.Miss Alice J. Feeman as Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective October 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. Maurice D. Fisher as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Patrick J. Flash as Junior Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of Mr. Bruce M. Gansneder as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Carroll A. Gardner, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and $300 for administration, or a total salary of .Mr. Leonard H. Goodman as Instructor, for three years, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Leslie E. Grayson as Professor of Business Administration for three and one-half academic years, effective February 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert T. Greene as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mrs. Barbara S. Haas as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective September 1, 1970.Miss Phyllis E. Harris as Instructor in Nursing, one-half time, for the period September 1, 1970 through July 31, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Douglas A. Hatzenbuhler as Junior Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Michael A. Hendrick as Junior Instructor in English, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of Mr. Marcel Herbst as Assistant Professor of City Planning, for three academic years, and Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Miss Barbara J. Hutchinson as Junior Instructor, Law Library, for one year, effective July 15, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. Robert L. Jeanne as Instructor in Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Richard N. Johnson as Instructor in Neurology, for one year, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. Frederick Y. Kazama as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective June 1, 1970.Mr. Wayne H. Keeler as Junior Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of Mr. Gordon E. Keller as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Mahlon G. Kelly as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mrs. Karen C. Kincannon as Lecturer, for one year, effective July 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Dr. Norman J. Knorr as Associate Professor of Psychiatry and of Plastic Surgery, for three years, effective August 15, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. William H. Leary as Lecturer in History, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Mr. George W. Lovelace as Lecturer in Architecture, one-half time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Mr. Charles H. Majors as Instructor, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of Mr. Ignatius A. Maniscalco as Junior Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Miss Christine E. Marshall as Lecturer in English, for one year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Miss Evelyn A. Mayer as Instructor in Education, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. James S. McCarthy as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Miss Patricia A. McGill as Instructor in Nursing, for the period September 1, 1970 through July 31, 1971, at an annual salary of Mr. Vernon R. Miller, Jr., as Junior Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Mr. Henry C. Moore as Lecturer in City Planning, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Dr. Ferid Murad as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and of Pharmacology, for three years, effective September 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Miss Suzanne M. Nadig as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective September 2, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. James F. Nash as Lecturer in English, for one year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of Mr. William F. Naufftus as Junior Instructor in English, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Thomas Neill, Jr., as Visiting Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Walter L. Newsome as Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective September 16, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mrs. Linda C. Pearce as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. Branko M. Peselj as Lecturer in Law, part-time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Mr. Herbert M. Phillips as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective December 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Miss Mary E. Reres as Associate Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mrs. Nancy B. Richards as Junior Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective September 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mrs. Dawn B. Rigney as Instructor in Nursing, for the period September 1, 1970 through January 31, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. John S. Rose as Acting Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one academic year, effective February 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Virginia G. Rovnyak as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of Miss Veronica M. Ruschmeier as Junior Instructor in Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Dr. Edwin L. Rushia as Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. Roger A. Rydin as Visiting Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Mr. Jerry B. Saffer as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, (Clinical Psychology), for three years, effective September 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mrs. Franciska K. Safran as Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective September 21, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. Frank N. Schipani as Junior Instructor in English, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Miss Janet Schulte as Junior Instructor in Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. William J. Serow as Lecturer in Business Administration, for one year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Edward L. Solava as Instructor in Nursing, one-half time, for the period September 1, 1970, through May 31, 1971, at an annual salary of .Miss Claudia A. Sopstyle as Junior Instructor, Alderman Library, one-half time, for the period September 16, 1970, through June 15, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mrs. Irene O. Southall as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. George C. Theodoridis as Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for two years, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mrs. Mary Ann Thorsey as Instructor in Nursing, one-half time, for the period September 1, 1970, through May 31, 1971, at an annual salary of .Dr. Donald J. Waldowski as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective August 15, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. Stephen D. Waters as Lecturer in Education and Director, Upward Bound, for one year, effective July 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Dr. Harry A. Wellons, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of Mr. Ira Winarsky as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .

ELECTION OF MR. WILLIAM C. SEITZ as WILLIAM R. KENAN, JR., PROFESSOR OF HISTORY OF ART
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. William C. Seitz be and he is hereby elected William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of History of Art, effective February 1, 1971, at a session salary of .

ELECTION OF MR. FRANKLYN N. ARNHOFF as JOHN EDWARD FOWLER PROFESSOR OF CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGY AND PROFESSOR OF PSYCHIATRY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Franklyn N. Arnhoff be and he is hereby elected John Edward Fowler Professor of Clinical Psychology and Professor of Psychiatry, effective September 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .

ELECTION OF MR. RICHARD E. SPEIDEL as HENRY L. AND GRACE DOHERTY PROFESSOR OF LAW
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Richard E. Speidel be and he is hereby elected Henry L. and Grace Doherty Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .

ELECTION OF MR. THOMAS F. BERGIN as WILLIAM MINOR LILE PROFESSOR OF LAW
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Thomas F. Bergin be and he is hereby elected William Minor Lile Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .

ELECTION OF MR. JOHN C. MCCOID as ARMISTEAD M. DOBIE PROFESSOR OF LAW
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. John C. McCoid be and he is hereby elected Armistead M. Dobie Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .

ELECTION OF MR. WALTER J. WADLINGTON, III, AS JAMES MADISON PROFESSOR OF LAW
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Walter J. Wadlington, III, be and he is hereby elected James Madison Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF DR. JAMES R. BEATY
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Dr. James R. Beaty as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective August 1, 1970, as approved by the Board on June 5, 1970, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF DR. LUIGI ROSSINI
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Dr. Luigi Rossini as Visiting Professor of Pharmacology, for the period September 1, 1970, through November 30, 1970, as approved by the Board at its meeting on June 5, 1970, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF DR. COVIE E. SEE
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Dr. Covie E. See as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, as approved by the Board on June 5, 1970, be changed from July 1, 1970 to June 1, 1970.

CHANGE IN TERM OF THE ELECTION OF MR. CHARLES JONES
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the term of the election of Mr. Charles Jones as Visiting Associate Professor of English, as approved by the Board on April 11, 1970, be changed from one academic year to one semester, effective September 1, 1970.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, JUNE 5, 1970
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Dr. Francis L. Brochu, as approved by the Board on June 5, 1970, be changed to read as follows:Dr. Francis L. Brochu as Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Suresh K. Agarwal as Visiting Assistant Professor of Radiology, (Radiologic Physics), for one year, effective August 1, 1970.Dr. Carlo Bruni as Associate Professor of Pathology, for the period September 1, 1970, through June 30, 1971.Dr. William D. Buxton as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1970.Dr. Mounir Y. Dafashy as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for one year, effective September 16, 1970.Dr. Clifford H. Fox as Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1970.Mr. Adrian R. L. Gear as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Eelco D. Gerlings as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for the period July 1, 1970 through May 31, 1971. Mr. Gerlings served as Visiting Assistant Professor of Physiology, from July 1, 1967 through September 15, 1968.Mr. H. Cassius Higgins as Visiting Professor of Architecture, for the months of October and November, and the second semester of the 1970-1971 session.Dr. James D. Kitchin, III, as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1970.Dr. Richard W. Lindsay as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1970.Miss Sue McCoy as Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for one year, effective June 1, 1970.Mr. James W. Ogilvie, Jr., as Associate Professor of Biochemistry, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Simon Pepper as Visiting Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective February 1, 1971.Dr. Richard C. Shrum as Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1970.Mrs. Mi-Soo Bae Smith as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one academic year, at a session salary of $11,500, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Burke M. Smith as Associate Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology), for one year, effective July 1, 1970.Dr. Nickolas J. Sojka as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1970.Mr. Jack Wakley as Assistant Professor of Radiology (Radiologic Physics), for three years, effective August 8, 1970.Mr. James M. Waller as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one year, effective September 1, 1970.Dr. William B. Wartman as Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective September 1, 1970.Dr. Ruth B. Weeks as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1970.Dr. Daniel E. Weiner as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1970.Mr. Alfred Zawadowski as Visiting Associate Professor of Physics, for the period November 1, 1970 through May 31, 1971.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. James L. Allison, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. Norman H. Bass, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Pharmacology and of Neurology, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. Frederic A. Berry, Jr., Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and of Pediatrics, to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. Robert R. Cardell, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Anatomy, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. Leo J. Falk, Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1970.Mr. Christopher Gale, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Business Administration, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Miss Fernande Gontier, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in French, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Dr. Jack M. Gwaltney, Jr., Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. Guy M. Harbert, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. Ying-Tang Hsu, Associate Professor, to Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. Marion K. Humphries, Jr., Clinical Associate Professor, to Clinical Professor of Ophthalmology, effective July 1, 1970.Dr. Julian I. Kitay, Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine and of Physiology, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. Thomas W. Lamb, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physiology, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. Francis H. McGovern, Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective October 1, 1970.Dr. Stanton P. Nolan, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of , of which is paid direct from the American Heart Association.Dr. John A. Owen, Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. J. Gaither Pratt, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology), effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. James C. Sams, Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor, one-half time, for one year, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. Carl A. Schnaitman, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Microbiology, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. Donald H. Shotton, Lecturer, to Associate Professor of Family and Community Medicine, and of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective September 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. James G. Simmons, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. T. Austin Sydnor, Jr., Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for two years, effective July 1, 1970.Dr. Melissa A. Warfield, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor, Clinical Pediatrics, for the period March 1, 1970 through June 30, 1971.Mr. Clyde M. Watson, Jr., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, to Assistant Professor of Family and Community Medicine, for three years, effective June 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. Peyton E. Weary, Associate Professor, to Professor of Dermatology, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. Frederic B. Westervelt, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. Gaylord S. Williams, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. Donald J. Wright, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, effective July 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. David C. Benjamin, Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1970, without pay, to continue his research program at the Johns Hopkins University.Mr. Christopher Collins, Assistant Professor of Russian, for one semester, effective February 1, 1971, to accept a Fulbright Fellowship.Mr. Vladimir Reisky de Dubnic, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, without pay, to continue research under a Senior Fulbright Grant.Mr. Howard L. Hamilton, Professor of Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, without pay, because of illness in the family.Miss Betty N. Norris, Acting Associate Professor of Nursing, for one month, effective July 1, 1970, without pay, to complete work on doctoral dissertation.Mr. Jerry G. Short, Associate Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, without pay, to serve as Director of Research and Training in a Center for Innovation and Technology in Education.Mr. Jack Wakley, Assistant Professor of Radiology (Radiologic Physics), for the period August 8, 1970 through August 31, 1971, without pay, to continue study for the Ph.D. at Johns Hopkins University.Mr. William S. Weedon, University Professor of Philosophy, for the period February 1, 1971 through June 30, 1971, without pay, for research and writing.Dr. Daniel E. Weiner, Assistant Professor of Physiology, for the period July 1, 1970, through June 30, 1971, without pay, to carry out research at the National Institutes of Health.Mr. Thomas G. Williamson, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, without pay, to spend a year with Combustion Engineering under the sponsorship of the ASEE-Ford Foundation Program.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Daniel F. Albright, from Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Larry S. Bowen, from Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Kenneth W. Clarkson, from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, to Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period October 1, 1970 through June 30, 1972.Mr. Thomas H. Estes, from Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Maurice D. Fisher, from Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Alan D. Howard, from Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, to Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period June 1, 1970, through June 30, 1973.Mr. Richard J. Jacobson, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. L. Samuel Johnson, from Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, to Assistant Professor of Spanish, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Walter Korte, from Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Robert G. McLaughlin, from Acting Assistant Professor of Drama, to Assistant Professor of Drama, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. H. C. Erik Midelfort, from Acting Assistant Professor of History, to Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Jon D. Mikalson, from Acting Assistant Professor of Classics, to Assistant Professor of Classics, for three years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. James S. Payne, from Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Joseph E. Strzepek, from Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Chester R. Titus, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1970.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. A. James Arnold, Jr., Assistant Professor of French, at a session salary of , effective September 1, 1970.Mr. J. Norwood Bosserman, Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer and for administration, or a total salary of , effective July 1, 1970.Mr. Bruno Braunrot, Assistant Professor of French, at a session salary of , effective October 1, 1970.Dr. James L. Camp, III, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, and Director of Student Health, at an annual salary of , effective July 1, 1970.Mr. William R. Carriker, Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective September 1, 1970.Miss Joan M. Corbett, Instructor and Assistant Editor, The Papers of George Washington, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective October 1, 1970.Mr. Harry J. Dell, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective September 1, 1970.Mr. David B. Lawall, Associate Professor of Art, at a session salary of , effective September 1, 1970.Mr. William C. Lowry, Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Everard W. Meade, Lecturer in Business Administration, at a session salary of , effective October 1, 1970.Mr. Charles A. Plesums, Lecturer in Computer Science and Manager of Programming Systems, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective September 1, 1970.Dr. Hans O. Riddervold, Assistant Professor of Radiology, at an annual salary of , effective July 1, 1970.Mr. Antonin Scalia, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective September 1, 1970.Mr. William H. Seawell, Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Steve Sebo, Professor of Physical Education and Director of Athletics, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective July 1, 1970.Dr. Nickolas J. Sojka, Assistant Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of , effective July 1, 1970.Mr. Stanley S. Stahl, Jr., Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective September 1, 1970.Mr. John L. Sullivan, Assistant Professor of Speech and Drama, at a session salary of , effective September 1, 1970.Miss Dorothy A. Twohig, Instructor and Associate Editor, The Papers of George Washington, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer, or a total salary of , effective October 1, 1970.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. David Barton, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, effective December 31, 1970, to accept a position at Vanderbilt University School of Medicine.Mr. John E. Christopher, Assistant Professor of Physics, effective June 30, 1970, to accept a position at the University of Kentucky.Mr. Dieter Drechsel, Associate Professor of Physics, effective June 30, 1970, to return to Germany.Mr. Roland C. Fivaz, Visiting Assistant Professor of Physics, effective October 15, 1970, to accept a position with another university.Mr. Joseph P. Gilmore, Professor of Physiology, effective July 31, 1970, to accept a position at the University of Nebraska.Miss Frances E. Goodman, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 15, 1970, to accept a position with the State Health Department in Kentucky.Mr. F. Duane Lamkin, Assistant Professor of Education, effective June 30, 1970, to accept a position with the Community Mental Health Center, Pensacola.Mr. James E. Lewis, Clinical Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine, effective September 1, 1970, to accept the position as Assistant Professor of Family and Community Medicine, for one year, effective September 1, 1970, University of Virginia Medical School.Dr. Gardner W. Smith, Associate Professor of Surgery, effective June 30, 1970, to accept a position at the Baltimore City Hospital.Miss Elizabeth C. Thomas, Assistant Professor of Education, effective December 31, 1970, because of home responsibilities.Dr. Richard A. Wetzel, Assistant Professor of Medicine and of Radiology, effective September 30, 1970, for personal reasons.Dr. David K. Wiecking, Assistant Professor of Pathology, effective August 31, 1970, to accept a position at the University of North Carolina.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

In accordance with the resolution adopted by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on July 14, 1945, the following appointment was announced: Captain Edmund H. Polonitza as Assistant Professor of Military Science, effective August 1970.

The following appointments were also announced: Mr. Brian M. Austin as Assistant Director, Counseling Center, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Samuel H. Back as Associate Director of Placement, for three years, effective July 1, 1970.Mr. John W. Boring as Assistant Director, Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective August 1, 1970.Mr. Eugene F. Corrigan as Director of University Athletic Programs, effective January 1, 1971.Mr. Eleftherios N. Economou as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Carroll A. Gardner, Jr., as Special Assistant to the President, for three years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Leonard H. Goodman as Assistant Director of Placement, for three years, effective September 1, 1970.Miss Christine E. Marshall as Assistant Editor, University Press of Virginia, for one year, effective September 1, 1970.Miss Evelyn A. Mayer as Assistant Dean of Students, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. James F. Nash as Assistant Editor, University Press of Virginia, for one year, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. L. Starling Reid as Chairman, Department of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. William J. Serow as Assistant Director, Bureau of Population and Economic Research, for one year, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Alton L. Taylor as Assistant Director, Office of Institutional Analysis, for five years, effective July 1, 1970.

ARMISTEAD M. DOBIE PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Law to be known as the Armistead M. Dobie Professorship in Law.

WILLIAM MINOR LILE PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Law to be known as the William Minor Lile Professorship in Law.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program.

REPORT ON ADMISSIONS AND ENROLLMENT
-----------------------------------

The President reported on enrollment noting particularly that enrollment in Graduate Arts and Sciences has not fallen off as many predicted that it would. Mr. Barrett warned that enrollment continues to increase, and that this requires more careful planning in many areas of University operations.

REPORT ON MOUNTAIN LAKE
-----------------------

The President reported that the number of students, faculty, and administrators who went to Mountain Lake was larger this year. He reported that the meeting there was successful. He felt that there was less tension than usual. Mr. Wright Harrison, who attended the conference, expressed the feeling that the meeting was a success.

NAMING OF THE FINE ARTS LIBRARY
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the new Fine Arts Library on Carr's Hill be and it is hereby named the Fiske Kimball Library.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$118,032.35

Free service to Counties and Cities

286,486.24

\------------

Total

$404,518.59

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1847, 1848, 1851, 1852, 1854, 1855, 1862, 1863, 1869, and 1870, aggregating $404,518.59, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts, etc.$118,032.35Free service to Counties and Cities286,486.24------------Total$404,518.59

REPORT BY DR. J. HARTWELL HARRISON
----------------------------------

Dr. J. Hartwell Harrison, acting in place of Dr. Kendig, reported on the contribution to the Medical Alumni Foundation by the Medical Class of 1944.

ELIMINATION OF SPECIAL PROCEDURE FOR GIVING PROFESSORIAL STANDING TO ROTC OFFICERS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In order for the elections of faculty members in the departments of Naval Science, Air Science, and Military Science to be handled as other such elections are, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resolution of July 14, 1945 authorizing the President to give Naval Officers serving at the University proper professorial standing in the faculty be and it is hereby rescinded.

REPORT ON ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee, acting for the Board, had adopted on August 25, 1970, Standards of Conduct which were recommended by the President and the Board's Special Committee on Disruptive Practices. Subsequent to that date, the Committee on Disruptive Practices met further with students, faculty, and administrative representatives and recommended some changes in the wording of the Standards.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Standards of Conduct approved by the Executive Committee of this Board on August 25, 1970 be and they are hereby ratified, with changes in wording so that they read as follows:GENERALThe University reserves the right to suspend, enforce the withdrawal of, or expel a student whose academic standing is in its judgment unsatisfactory or who violates the University's Standards of Conduct. The University further automatically will enforce the dismissal of a student certified to be guilty of a breach of the Honor System by the Honor Committee.CONDUCTa. Introduction.Students of the University are expected to conduct themselves as ladies and gentlemen, both within the University and elsewhere. For student conduct which is outside the jurisdiction of the Honor Committee but which tends to discredit or injure the University, the President is authorized by the Board of Visitors to impose such penalty as he may deem appropriate, including expulsion from the University. This authority has been delegated by the President to the Student Judiciary Committee, subject to review by the President or his delegated representative. When the penalty for bad conduct is expulsion, the student may appeal the decision to the Board of Visitors.b. Standards of Conduct.The University of Virginia is a community of scholars in which the ideals of freedom of inquiry, freedom of thought, freedom of expression, and freedom of the individual are sustained. It is committed to preserving the exercise of any right guaranteed to individuals by the Constitution. However, the exercise and preservation of these freedoms and rights require a respect for the rights of all in the community to enjoy them to the same extent. It is clear that in a community of learning, willful disruption of the educational process, destruction of property, and interference with the orderly process of the University or with the rights of other members of the University cannot be tolerated. A student enrolling in the University assumes an obligation to conduct himself in a manner compatible with the University's function as an educational institution. To fulfill its functions of imparting and gaining knowledge, the University retains the power to maintain order within the University and to exclude those who are disruptive of the educational process.Generally, prohibited conduct for which a student is subject to discipline is defined as follows (violations of the Honor System and Motor Vehicle Regulations are excluded):1. Physical abuse of any person on University-owned or controlled property or at University-sponsored or supervised functions, or conduct which threatens or endangers the health or safety of any such person;2. Damage to property of the University or of a member of the University or visitor to the University;3. Unauthorized entry into or occupation of University facilities which are locked, closed to student activities, or otherwise restricted as to use;4. Intentional disruption or obstruction of teaching, research, administration, disciplinary procedures, or other University activities, or of other authorized activities on University property;5. Unlawfully blocking or impeding normal pedestrian or vehicular traffic on or adjacent to University property;6. Violation of rules governing residence in University-owned, -operated or - regulated property;7. Alteration, fabrication or misuse of University documents, records or identification cards, or like acts which adversely affect the University's education interest;8. Disorderly conduct on University-owned, -operated, or -controlled property or at University-sponsored functions. Disorderly conduct shall include acts which violate the rights of others which tend to breach the peace, or which are deemed lewd, indecent or obscene. 'Conduct' may also include expression which exceeds the bounds of constitutionally-protected speech;9. Violation of University policies or of University regulations, including regulations concerning the registration of student organizations and the use of University facilities;\* \*Attention is directed to other University policies and regulations published in The Colonnade (the current student handbook) covering drugs, firearms and the use of University property. 10. Any violation of federal, state, or local law if such directly affects the University's pursuit of its proper educational purposes.11. Failure to comply with directions of University officials acting under provisions one through ten set out above. This shall include failure to give identity in situations concerning alleged violations of sections 1-10.c. Sanctions.One or more of the following sanctions for prohibited conduct may be imposed by the University upon students, depending upon the gravity of the offense:1. Admonition: An oral statement to a student that he is violating or has violated institution rules. No admonition shall be entered as a permanent part of a student's record unless issued by an appropriate judicial body of students.2. Warning: Notice, in writing, that continuation or repetition of conduct found wrongful, within a period of time stated in the warning may be cause for more severe disciplinary action.3. Reprimand: A written censure for violation of specified regulations, including the possibility of more severe disciplinary sanctions in the event of the finding of a violation of any University regulation within a stated period of time.4. Disciplinary probation: Exclusion from participation in privileged or extracurricular University activities as set forth in the notice of probation for a period of time not exceeding one school year.5. Restitution: Reimbursement for damage to or misappropriation of property.6. (a) Suspension: Exclusion from classes and other privileges or activities or from the University, as set forth in the notice of suspension, for a definite period of time.6. (b) Interim Suspension: Temporary suspension by an official of the University of a student who engages in disruptive conduct or in any other prohibited conduct which poses a substantial threat to the health or safety of other members of the University or to University property pending a hearing on such offense. Upon the student's request, any student so suspended shall be entitled to a hearing within 24 hours before the Judiciary Committee or its designated subcommittee. If the student is unavailable, such hearing may be postponed until he is able to attend. Any student so suspended who thereafter enters upon those areas of the Grounds denied him by the terms of his suspension, other than with the permission of or at the request of University officials or of a duly authorized hearing body for purposes of a hearing, is subject to prosecution thereafter by civil authorities. Should the interim suspension be found to be without probable cause any notation referring to such shall be expunged from the student's record.A student so suspended must be given the following warnings by the suspending official:1. You are hereby temporarily suspended and barred from (location - Grounds or portion thereof). You may not enter (area) without the permission of or upon the request of University officials or of a duly authorized hearing body for purposes of a hearing.2. You are entitled to a hearing within 24 hours before the Judiciary Committee to determine whether this suspension is with probable cause and may continue pending a full trial. It is your responsibility to request a hearing and I will notify the Chairman of the Judiciary Committee of your wishes. (Give name and telephone number of Chairman of Judiciary Committee to student).7. Expulsion: Termination of student status for any indefinite period. The condition of re-admission, if any, shall be stated in the order of expulsion.

Attention is directed to other University policies and regulations published in The Colonnade (the current student handbook) covering drugs, firearms and the use of University property.

RESEARCH FUNDS IN THE STATE
---------------------------

Mr. Vincent Shea referred to a Directive from Governor Holton which would require the University's research funds (mostly from Federal sources) to be handled by the State agencies in Richmond in the same manner as State funds. He expressed concern over possible delays in setting up positions, in purchasing, and in other aspects of administering these funds. He stressed the fact that the University's entire graduate research program depends upon Federal grants. All of the collegiate institutions of the State are opposed to this plan, which is scheduled to go into operation on November 1, 1970. The President expressed concern for the continuing quality of our graduate programs, particularly in science unless this plan is changed.

The Rector, along with Lawrence Lewis, Edwin Mattern, and J. Harvie Wilkinson, III, will discuss this matter with the Governor during the week of October 5.

REGIONAL COMPUTER PLAN
----------------------

Mr. Vincent Shea reported that the State had adopted a State-wide computer plan, with regional computers. One of the regional computers is to be here. Mr. Shea advised that we have an active computer committee here under the chairmanship of Mr. Louis T. Rader. Our own group is recommending that we need a new research computer, and new computer facilities for administration and for the medical center. He was optimistic that the negotiations would result in superior computer facilities for the University.

CABELL HALL FIRE
----------------

The President reported that a fire was started by a bolt of lightning in the electrical system of a Cabell Hall elevator on September 21. The estimated damage to the attic was $50,000. Great quantities of water poured through the building after firemen cut openings in the roof to gain access to the burning areas. The heroic actions of the students prevented serious damage to books, records, and office equipment. Students also volunteered to clear the building of excess water, and to restore the building to serviceable condition so that classes could be held the following day. The Board joined the President in expressing gratitude to the students for their assistance.

WILLIAM FAULKNER GIFT
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University with gratitude and enthusiasm confirms the acceptance of the splendid gift of the notable collection of manuscripts, typescripts, papers, letters, memorabilia, and other documents pertaining to William Faulkner, formerly owned by the William Faulkner Foundation and held on deposit in the Alderman Library, together with stocks and other assets owned by the Foundation;RESOLVED FURTHER that it is the sense of the Board that the members of the Faulkner family and the officers of the William Faulkner Foundation in assembling, preserving, and entrusting to the University this uniquely complete archive of the work of one of America's greatest men of letters, have made a notable contribution not only to the University, but to the world of letters and scholarships;AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Secretary of the Board is directed to convey the thanks of the Board to each member of the Faulkner family and to Mr. Linton R. Massey, President, and to the other officers of the William Faulkner Foundation, together with a copy of this resolution as evidence of our corporate and individual appreciation of their creative act on behalf of learning.

REQUEST FOR ALLOCATION OF SPACE BY THE RECORDING FOR THE BLIND, INC.
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the request by the Recording for the Blind, Inc. for allocation of space on the Grounds be and it is hereby denied.

REQUEST FROM THE STUDENT COUNCIL
--------------------------------

Copies of a letter from Mr. Kevin Mannix, writing on behalf of the Student Council to the Board of Visitors, were distributed at the meeting (see attachment). In this letter, the Student Council requested that three students be selected to attend meetings of the Board, and remain throughout the meetings.

The Rector advised the Board that he would prepare a response to the letter. It was the consensus of the members present that the Board could not, for a variety of reasons, grant the request, but that the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee would develop ways to increase the participation of students in its activities.

STATEMENT OF DR. J. HARTWELL HARRISON
-------------------------------------

Dr. Harrison commended Visitor Wright Harrison for his efforts to promote understanding between the student body and the Board of Visitors.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTS
----------------------

Upon recommendation of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, the following architects were approved by the full Board:

Patrick Henry College, Gymnasium and Maintenance Building - Architects - J. Coates Carter and Son in association with Frantz and Chappelear.

Clinch Valley College, Classroom Building - Architects - Charles B. McElroy in association with Smithey and Boynton with Frank H. Hill, Jr. of the latter firm directly involved.

George Mason College, Library, Phase II-A - Architects - Daniel, Mann, Johnson, Mendenhall with Mr. Ryder of that firm involved

George Mason College, Academic Building, Phase II - Architects - Lyles, Bissett, Carlisle, and Wolff, Associates of Alexander, Virginia.

University of Virginia, Apartment Extension, Copeley Hill - Architects - Rawlings and Wilson.

REPORT BY STANDING COMMITTEES
-----------------------------

Reports were received on committee actions and other matters from the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, the Educational Policy Committee, the Medical Committee, the Mary Washington College Committee, the Finance Committee, and the Buildings and Grounds Committee.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mr. Edward V. Allison, Jr. as Assistant Professor (chief fiscal officer of the College), effective October 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .Mr. Gareth H. Bond as Assistant Professor of Music, (part-time), for one year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Miss Marilyn Bresler as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. John P. Bruckner as Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (German), for three years, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mrs. Marcia C. Chaves as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), for one year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mrs. Eleanor D. Dibble as Lecturer in Social Work, for three years, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Joseph J. Ellis as Instructor in Sociology, for one year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mrs. Elaine C. Koffman as Assistant Professor of Psychology, part-time, for three years, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of , for the 1970-1971 session for three-fourths time.Mrs. Melinda Coopat Lorenz as Instructor in Art, for one year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mrs. Margaret G. Mall as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation (Dance), for one year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mrs. Constance F. Smith as Instructor in English, for one year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mrs. Judith K. Warner as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (German), for one year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mrs. Marjorie M. Whidden as Lecturer in English for the first semester of the 1970-1971 session, effective September 1, 1970, at a total salary of , to be paid in one lump sum at the end of the semester.

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Miss Mary Kaye Phifer as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and she is hereby granted leave of absence:Mrs. Margaret Sue Early, Instructor in English, for the first semester of the 1970-1971 session, without pay, because of health.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Edward V. Allison, Jr., from Business Manager to Comptroller, with the academic rank of Assistant Professor, effective October 1, 1970.Mr. Michael Houston from Associate Professor of History and Assistant to the Chancellor to Associate Professor of History and Assistant Chancellor for Administration, effective October 1, 1970, at an annual salary of .

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mrs. Michele H. Garskof as Assistant Professor of Psychology, effective June 30, 1970, after serving one year of an original three year appointment, to accept a position at Quinnipac College in Hamden, Connecticut.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Miss Rose Mary Johnson, as Chairman, Department of Biology, for three years, effective October 1, 1970 to July 1, 1973.Mrs. Nancy H. Mitchell, Associate Professor English, as Assistant Dean of the College, for one year, effective August 1, 1970, at a session salary of

REPORT BY THE CHANCELLOR
------------------------

Chancellor Simpson reported on his handling of the case of Mr. Alexander Nakoi. Following a court conviction for forgery, Mr. Nakoi was discharged from his position by the Chancellor. The Chancellor expressed hope that the Board would concur in this action. The Board expressed general agreement with the Chancellor's action.

REPORT ON ADMISSIONS AND ENROLLMENT
-----------------------------------

The Chancellor reported on admissions and enrollment for the academic year 1970-1971.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Miss Francisco G. Aruca as Instructor in Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Victor Bloecker, Jr., as Instructor in Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Jack C. Carroll as Assistant Professor of Education, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Miss Marta S. Castillo as Lecturer in Spanish, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mrs. Barbara F. Chambers as Lecturer in Mathematics, three-fourths time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Joseph A. Childress, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Mr. Anthony C. Churchman as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Constantine C. Deligiannis as Instructor in Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Mr. William B. Evans, Jr., as Lecturer in Education, one-half time, for one year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Mrs. Margaret F. Gibson as Instructor in English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Mr. Emmett L. Holman as Lecturer in Philosophy, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Mr. Donald P. Kelso as Assistant Professor of Biology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mrs. Agnes L. Mao as Instructor, Library, for one year, effective September 15, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of Mr. Walter J. Moretz, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administration, or a total salary of .Mr. Moses D. E. Nwulia as Lecturer in History, one-fourth time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Mr. Jia-Jeou Peng as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mrs. Irina Pfund as Lecturer in German, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert G. Pielke as Instructor in Religion, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Mrs. Ann B. Powers as Lecturer in French, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of Mr. John P. Sullivan as Associate Professor, for two years, effective August 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mrs. Margaret D. S. Vanness as Instructor in English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Mr. William F. Wehrly, Jr., as Lecturer in Philosophy, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Richard A. Gleisser as Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Jon R. Rinehart as Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Robert C. Krug, Professor of Chemistry, and Dean of the College, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective July 1, 1970.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Edwin W. Bishop, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective June 30, 1970, because of illness.Mr. Joerg W. P. Mayer, Professor of Mathematics, effective June 30, 1970, to accept another position.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. William C. Johnson as Dean of the Summer Session, for three years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. John P. Sullivan as Director, Office of Institutional Analysis and Registrar, for two years, effective August 1, 1970.

FUTURE OF GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
------------------------------

The President observed that Chancellor Thompson of George Mason College has only one more year before he reaches the mandatory retirement age, and that before we can recruit a man, the future course of the College should be decided. It will be important to know, when recruiting, whether the College will continue to be a coordinate College, or whether it will be an independent College. The President expressed the hope that a report on the studies which will be carried out would be ready by a year from now.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Clinch Valley College:Mr. Roy A. Ball as Associate Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a salary of .Mr. Charles F. Denny as Instructor in Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mrs. Joan W. Dollard as Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Peter A. Dollard as Associate Professor of Library Science, for one year, effective July 15, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Carl L. Gusler as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. George L. Hawpe as Assistant Professor of Political Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mrs. Helen M. Lewis as Assistant Professor of Sociology, three-fourths time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970.

RESOLUTIONS ON CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE LOAN
-----------------------------------------

Two resolutions regarding the Clinch Valley College Loan were adopted. The titles of these resolutions are as follows: (1) A Resolution Authorizing the Issuance of $455,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Clinch Valley College Dormitory Revenue Bonds of 1970, Series A, to Pay the Cost of Constructing A Dormitory to House Approximately 100 Female Students at Clinch Valley College, Wise County, Virginia; Providing for the Fixing, Revising, Charging and Collecting of a Dormitory Fee and the Payment of Such Bonds and the Interest Thereon From The Revenues Derived From Such Fee; and Setting Forth the Rights and Remedies of the Holders of Such Bonds(2) Resolution Awarding $455,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Clinch Valley College Dormitory Revenue Bonds of 1970, Series A

Because of the length of the documents they will be made an attachment to the Permanent Minutes. Copies of these documents will be furnished to any member of the Board upon request.

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSELECTION
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Edwin L. Kaufman as Lecturer in General Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .

EASTERN SHORE BRANCH OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTIONS
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Bruce E. Biel as Instructor in Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. James E. Douglas, Jr., as Lecturer in Commerce, three-fourths time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty:Mrs. Frances B. Rawls as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administration, or a total salary of .

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mrs. Frances B. Rawls as Director of Admissions and Counseling, for one year, effective July 1, 1970.

PATRICK HENRY COLLEGEELECTION
-----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Charles L. Bottom as Instructor in Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTION
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Lester H. Hollans as Lecturer in General Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Lester H. Hollans as Assistant Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1970.

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTION
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Thomas L. McKeon as Lecturer in General Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Thomas L. McKeon as Assistant Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1970.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 5:12 p.m.

RCB:jb

Student Council UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA NEWCOMB HALL CHARLOTTESVILLE 22901 September 30, 1970
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University

Pavilion VIII, East Lawn

University of Virginia

Ladies and Gentlemen:

The Student Council is endeavoring to establish positive programs into which student activism and genuine student concerns can be channeled. We seek to build upon past accomplishments in developing an even greater institution. In order to make Council a more effective representative of students, we have opened our committees to student participation and we will be attempting to develop more programs to make us more aware of student opinions and concerns.

President Shannon has successfully opened University committees to student membership, which has made the governing structure of the University more responsive and has strengthened student awareness of the problems as well as the promise of our University. Students have fully accepted the responsibilities of Committee membership and have demonstrated their willingness to work hard.

In addition, as students, we have demonstrated our sense of honor and responsibility via our Honor System and the continuance of its admirable tradition. Our judiciary system has demonstrated our willingness to adjudicate offenses by fellow students and to punish convicted offenders.

Despite this tradition of cooperation between administrators, faculty, and students at our University, there is a growing necessity for continuing and improving the present channels of communication. Though the University has continued to develop as an exciting institution, problems at home and abroad have produced in many of our fellow students feelings of estrangement. This had made communication difficult and has resulted in frustration resulting from a lack of information and participation.

To alleviate this difficulty, more efforts must be made, by ourselves, our fellow students, faculty, administrators, and yourselves, to open up further the decision-making processes of the University.

Council strongly believes that virtually every action of the Board of Visitors affects the students of the University, and therefore we respectfully urge you, as our Board of Visitors, to allow three current students to sit with you as non-voting representatives throughout your sessions in Charlottesville.

These students would serve two essential functions:

1) provide the Board with a ready-source of student opinion and information, and

2) provide through these representatives a basis for student understanding of Board activities. We recognize of course that these students will abide by the same standards of confidentiality that the Board members themselves observe.

As possible means to implement these proposals we recommend that the Board of Visitors adopt one of the following methods of selection:

1) a general election by the student body

2) direct appointment by the Student Council

3) six nominations by the Student Council of which three are selected by the Board.

These students would be selected in the Spring of each year to serve a one-year term. Any student selected at this time would serve on the Board of Visitors until the Spring of 1971.

At this time we feel that the acceptance of non-voting representatives on the Board of Visitors is a necessary step in promoting the free interchange of ideas and policies among those interested in the betterment of the University of Virginia. However, the Student Council feels it would be advisable for the Board of Visitors to explore the feasibility of permitting these student representatives to express the views of their fellow students in a more meaningful manner through the acquisition of member-voting privileges.

We thank you for your consideration and cooperation.

KLM/mle

cc: President Edgar F. Shannon Vice-President D. Alan Williams