 TEI to HTML

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA June 1, 1973
------------------------------------------------------------------

TENTATIVE MINUTES Subject to Approval by the Board of Visitors

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:15 p.m. on June 1, 1973 in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors Barrett, Buford, French, W. Harrison, Leggett, Lewis, Mattern, Polly, Potter, Wilkinson, and Zimmer. Absent: Visitors Brown, J. Harrison, Santarelli, and Scott. Messrs. Neill H. Alford, Jr., David A. Shannon, Vincent Shea, Edwin M. Crawford, Kenneth R. Crispell and D. Alan Williams were present throughout the meeting.

The minutes of the meeting of April 6, 1973, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

RESIGNATION OF VISITOR WILKINSON
--------------------------------

The Rector announced, with regret, the resignation of Mr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, III as a member of the Board of Visitors, effective June 2, 1973.

ELECTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the 1966 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector called for the election by the Board of the members of the Executive Committee to serve until the next Annual Meeting in June 1974. The following persons were unanimously elected to the Executive Committee: Joseph H. McConnell, C. Waller Barrett, Robert P. Buford, W. Wright Harrison, and William L. Zimmer, III.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESExecutive CommitteeFinance CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeHealth Sciences CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the standing committees for 1973-1974. The committee assignments are as follows: Executive CommitteeMr. Joseph H. McConnell, ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettMr. Robert P. BufordMr. W. Wright HarrisonMr. William L. Zimmer, III Finance CommitteeMr. William S. Potter, ChairmanMr. W. Wright HarrisonMr. William L. Zimmer, III Student Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMr. W. Wright Harrison, ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownMr. Robert P. BufordMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr.Mr. Donald E. SantarelliMr. William L. Zimmer, III Health Sciences CommitteeDr. J. Hartwell Harrison, ChairmanMr. Robert P. BufordMr. Warren B. French, Jr.Mr. Edwin K. MatternDr. Brownie E. Polly, Jr.Senator Hugh Scott Buildings and Grounds CommitteeMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr., ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettMr. Warren B. French, Jr.Mr. William E. LeggettMr. Edwin K. Mattern Educational Policy CommitteeMr. C. Waller Barrett, ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownDr. J. Hartwell HarrisonMr. William E. LeggettDr. Brownie E. Polly, Jr.Mr. William S. PotterMr. Donald E. SantarelliSenator Hugh Scott

The Rector, Mr. Joseph H. McConnell, is an ex officio member of all committees.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. C. Knight Aldrich as Professor of Psychiatry, effective May 1, 1973. This election is contingent upon the signing of the agreement by Dr. Aldrich, the Blue Ridge Mental Health Clinic, and the University of Virginia.Mrs. Ruth Angress as Associate Professor of German, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Julius P. Barclay as Associate Professor, Alderman Library, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Yechezkel Barenholz as Visiting Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective August 16, 1973.Mrs. Suzanne W. Barnett as Visiting Assistant Professor of History, for one semester, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Warren Boeschenstein as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Charles R. Boxer as Visiting Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Mr. William C. Boynton as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Miss Linda K. Bunker as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Commander Robert K. Caldwell as Associate Professor of Naval Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mrs. Carolyn M. Callahan as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Michael E. Christopherson as Assistant Professor of Art, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Michael L. Connell as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for the period April 15, 1973, through June 30, 1974.Mr. David B. Croll as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the second semester of the 1973-74 academic session, and the first semester of the 1974-75 academic session.Mr. Victor I. Culver as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. James A. Curtin as Assistant Professor of Drama, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Charles W. Curtis as Visiting Professor of Mathematics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Mr. James C. Dearing as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Jean Fabre as Visiting Professor of French, for one semester, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Richard A. Ferrell as Visiting Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Mr. Gerhard Freising as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Miss Sara A. Gearhart as Instructor in German, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Kenneth E. Greer as Instructor in Dermatology, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mrs. Deborah A. Gutschera as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. David T. Haberly as Associate Professor of Portuguese, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Hans Haenlein as Visiting Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Mrs. Emily Hahn as Lecturer in English, one-half time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Mr. James R. Haltiner as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, two-thirds time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Richard K. Harwood as Instructor in Education, for the period April 1, 1973, through August 31, 1973.Mr. Glenn Hausfater as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Alan C. Hess as Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Paul J. Hopkins as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. John N. Hough as Visiting Professor of Classics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Miss Lilian Hoverland as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Keith A. Howell as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Major Gerald F. Huml as Associate Professor of Naval Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Philip A. Ianna as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Ronnie D. S. Jack as Lecturer in English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Douglas P. Johnson as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Robert W. Johnson as Visiting Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective June 1, 1973.Mrs. Gretchen L. Kelly as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for the period April 1, 1973, through June 30, 1974.Mr. Raja G. Khalifah as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. John C. Lafley as Instructor in Education, for the period April 1, 1973, through June 30, 1974.Miss Margaret E. Lawless as Instructor in French, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Mr. Milan P. Locher as Visiting Associate Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. John W. McKlveen as Lecturer in Nuclear Engineering, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. John H. Myers as Carman G. Blough Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Miss Charlan J. Nemeth as Associate Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1973.Miss Paula V. Neuss as Lecturer in English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. James M. Ortega as Lecturer in Applied Mathematics, and Computer Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Nicholas Ozerov as Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Miss Annie Quinguin as Instructor in French, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Richard D. Rodewald as Associate Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mrs. Martha S. Rowland as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Shelton S. Schmidt as Instructor in Economics, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Peter A. Soderbergh as Associate Professor of Education, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Joseph B. Tavormina as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Rodney L. Taylor as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mrs. Eva M. Thompson as Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Milos Velimirovic as Professor of Music, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Michael Volpe as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Ernest W. Walker as The Virginia Bankers Association Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Robert Weimann as Visiting Professor of English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Mr. Charles E. Wheeler as Instructor in Education, for the period April 1, 1973, through June 30, 1974.Mrs. Claire B. Whittaker as Instructor, Alderman Library, for the period August 1, 1973, through June 30, 1974.Mr. David E. Winter as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Miss Elaine H. Woodward as Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

ELECTION OF MR. RALPH COHEN as WILLIAM R. KENAN, JR., PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Ralph Cohen be and he is hereby elected William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of English, effective September 1, 1973.

ELECTION OF MR. E. DONALD HIRSCH as WILLIAM R. KENAN, JR., PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. E. Donald Hirsch be and he is hereby elected William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of English, effective September 1, 1973.

ELECTION OF MR. ROLAND N. MCKEAN as COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR OF ECONOMICS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Roland N. McKean be and he is hereby elected Commonwealth Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1973.

CHANGE IN EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF DR. ALBERT B. BUTLER
------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Dr. Albert B. Butler as Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, as approved by the Board on April 6, 1973, be changed from July 1, 1973, to June 16, 1973.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Carter Allen as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mrs. Alice G. Bauer as Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Allan Blunden as Assistant Professor of German, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Richard J. Bonnie as Assistant Professor of Law, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973. Mr. Bonnie served as Assistant Professor, 1969-70, and as part-time Lecturer, 1970-73.Mr. Edward T. Cline as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. George Cooper, Jr., as Visiting Professor of Radiology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Martin R. Davis as Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mrs. Mary Ann Dinger as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. John P. Fullilove, III, as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Frank B. Gray, Jr., as Clinical Assistant Professor of Urology, for three years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Louis E. Harman, Jr., as Associate Professor of Dermatology, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Marcel Herbst as Assistant Professor of City Planning and Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one semester, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. John A. James as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Kenneth O. Jensen as Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Donald J. Kenneweg as Clinical Associate Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Devendra M. Kochhar, as Associate Professor of Anatomy, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Ferid Murad, as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and of Pharmacology, effective July 1, 1973.Colonel James P. Robertson as Professor of Air Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mrs. Catherine Seaman as Associate Professor of Nursing, one-fourth time, for one year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Chester R. Titus as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Marcus O. Workman as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Ronald C. Adams, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. J. Francis Amos, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Family and Community Medicine and of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Wilton H. Bunch, Associate Professor, to Professor of Orthopedics, effective July 1, 1973.Miss Beverly B. Butler, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Charles L. Crockett, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. James E. Culver, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Brian R. Duling, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physiology, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Richard F. Edlich, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Jack C. Fisher, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Plastic Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. William C. Flanagan, Jr., Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Charles J. Frankel, Associate Professor, to Professor of Orthopedics, effective July 1, 1973.Miss Annette Gibbs, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Alfred G. Gilman, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Charles E. Hess, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. P. Browning Hoffman, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Psychiatry and of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. David A. Horwitz, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Stuart S. Howards, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Urology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Captain John T. Hoza, Assistant Professor, to Major John T. Hoza, Associate Professor of Military Science, for two years, effective April 26, 1973.Mr. Ching-Hsien Huang, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Biochemistry, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Ann J. Johanson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1973.Miss Sandra L. Kellogg, Instructor, Law Library, to Assistant Professor, Law Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Diane M. Komp, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Richard W. Lindsay, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Robert M. MacLeod, Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Margaret B. McChesney, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Robert E. McLaughlin, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. James Q. Miller, Associate Professor, to Professor of Neurology, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. David B. Moga, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Stanton P. Nolan, Associate Professor, to Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. David E. Normansell, Assistant Professor of Microbiology, to Associate Professor of Microbiology and of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Herbert R. Pickett, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Jean-Pierre J. Piriou, Instructor, to Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. J. Gaither Pratt, Associate Professor, to Professor of Psychiatry, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Edwin W. Pullen, Associate Professor, to Professor of Anatomy, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Seymour Rabinowitz, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Carl A. Schnaitman, Associate Professor, to Professor of Microbiology, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Anthony Shaw, Associate Professor, to Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Charles D. Teates, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Roby C. Thompson, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Orthopedics, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Gaylord S. Williams, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Plastic Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.

CANCELLATION OF THE PROMOTION OF MR. JOSE S. DE OLMOS
-----------------------------------------------------

Since Mr. Jose S. de Olmos will leave the University before September 1, 1973, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the promotion of Mr. Jose S. de Olmos, as approved by the Board on February 2, 1973, be and it is hereby cancelled.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Daniel A. Albright, Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to accept a National Endowment for the Humanities Fellowship.Mr. Vittorio Celli, Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974, without pay, to visit the International Center for Theoretical Physics, Trieste, Italy.Mr. Robert Dolan, Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974, without pay, to serve as a liaison scientist for the Office of Naval Research in England.Mr. Larry M. Hackenberg, Associate Professor of Landscape Architecture, for one semester, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to carry out independent study at the Paris Atelier.Mr. John W. Israel, Associate Professor of History, for one semester, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to pursue research.Mr. Enno E. Kraehe, Commonwealth Professor of History, for one semester, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to pursue research.Mr. Theodore J. Marr, Assistant Professor of Speech, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to accept an invitation to join a Hong Kong based consortium as the communication consultant.Mr. Julius E. Rivers, Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to accept a fellowship from the National Endowment for the Humanities.Mr. Lewis E. Snyder, Associate Professor of Astronomy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to accept a fellowship to the Joint Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics, Boulder, Colorado.Mr. Robert S. Stepleman, Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to work in industry.Mr. Alan Strahler, Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one semester, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to accept a Harvard University Fellowship in Forest Research.Mr. Peter H. Taylor, Commonwealth Professor of English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to carry out research and writing.Mr. Thomas R. White, Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to serve on the Joint Committee on Internal Revenue Taxation.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Arthur S. Brill, from Professor of Materials Science, to Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1973.Miss Sue McCoy, from Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, to Assistant Professor of Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Jean-Pierre J. Piriou, from Acting Assistant Professor of French, to Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Joseph A. Porter, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, effective May 8, 1973.

CORRECTION IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE CHANGE OF TITLE OF DR. JERRY B. SAFFER
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the change of title of Dr. Jerry B. Saffer, as approved by the Board on April 6, 1973, be changed from June 30, 1973, to July 31, 1973.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The President announced the following retirements: Mr. Melvin W. Aylor, Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective June 30, 1973. Mr. Aylor has been a member of the faculty since 1939.Mr. Paul M. Hammaker, Professor of Business Administration, effective June 30, 1973. Mr. Hammaker has been a member of the faculty since 1962.Mr. Raymond C. Heidloff, Associate Professor of Education, effective June 30, 1973. Mr. Heidloff has been a member of the faculty since 1929.Mrs. Josephine M. Ludewig, Associate Professor of Nursing, effective June 30, 1973. Mrs. Ludewig has been a member of the faculty since 1954.Mr. Lawrence R. Quarles, Lawrence R. Quarles Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, effective June 30, 1973. Mr. Quarles has been a member of the faculty since 1935.Mr. Jean M. Roberts, Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective June 30, 1973. Mr. Roberts has been a member of the faculty since 1952.Mr. Edward R. Slaughter, Associate Professor of Education, effective June 30, 1973. Mr. Slaughter has been a member of the faculty since 1931.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Lawrence R. Quarles, Lawrence R. Quarles Professor of Engineering and Applied Science.Mr. Jean M. Roberts, Professor of Electrical Engineering.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Mark E. Chittenden, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, effective December 31, 1972, to accept another position.Mr. Damon Diemente, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, effective June 30, 1973, to accept a position at the Taft School in Connecticut.Mr. L. Samuel Johnson, Assistant Professor of Spanish, effective June 30, 1973, to accept a position at another university.Mrs. Willie Lee Rose, Commonwealth Professor of History, effective June 30, 1973, to accept a position at another university.

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE RESIGNATION OF DR. WILLIAM G. THURMAN
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resignation was announced: The President will announce that the effective date of the resignation of Dr. William G. Thurman, B. Armistead Shepherd Professor of Pediatrics, has been changed from June 30, 1973, to July 31, 1973, as announced to the Board at the December 8, 1972 meeting.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Dr. Phillip M. Allen as Vice-Chairman, Department of Pathology (Clinical), for one year, effective May 1, 1973.Mr. Rolland A. Bowers as Assistant Dean, School of Education, for the period August 1, 1973, through June 30, 1976.Mr. Charles W. Curtis as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Mr. David T. Haberly as Chairman, Department of Spanish, Italian and Portuguese, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Richard K. Harwood as Acting Associate Director, Office of Career Planning and Placement, for the period April 1, 1973, through August 31, 1973.Mr. John C. Lafley as Assistant Director, Intramurals, for the period April 1, 1973, through June 30, 1974.Mr. Edward J. Rinalducci as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Peter A. Soderbergh as Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Education, for five years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Benjamin C. Sturgill as Vice-Chairman, Department of Pathology (Anatomic), for one year, effective May 1, 1973.Dr. Roby C. Thompson, Jr., as Vice-Chairman, Department of Orthopedics, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Charles E. Wheeler as Assistant Director, Financial Aid to Students, for the period April 1, 1973, through June 30, 1974.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. James W. Barco as Counsellor to the President for Special Development, for the period November 1, 1973, through June 30, 1974.Mrs. Mary Ann Dinger as Associate Director, Summer Session, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Miss Annette Gibbs as Associate Dean of Students, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. William B. Guilford as Assistant Registrar, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Herbert R. Pickett as Registrar, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Colonel James P. Robertson as Chairman, Department of Air Science, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. G. Warren Stamp as Chairman, Department of Orthopedics, for five years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. S. Delacy Stith as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Chester R. Titus as Associate Dean of Students, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.

DEATH OF MR. JOHN M. STACEY
---------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HARRY DOUGLAS FORSYTH PROFESSORSHIP IN ENGINEERING AND APPLIED
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Engineering and Applied Science to be known as the Harry Douglas Forsyth Professorship in Engineering and Applied Science, effective June 1, 1973.

APPROVAL OF THE 1973-1974 UNIVERSITY BUDGET
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1973-74 University Budget, as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved subject to the proviso that the Budget of the School of Medicine is approved with the understanding that the reserves of the clinical department will be used, if necessary, to meet budgeted expenditures. (See Attachment I)

APPROVAL OF THE 1973-1974 UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL BUDGET
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1973-74 University Hospital Budget as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved. (See Attachment II)

APPROVAL OF THE 1973-1974 BUDGETS FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE, THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION, AND THE PUBLIC SERVICE BUREAUS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1973-74 Budgets for Clinch Valley College, the School of Continuing Education, and the Public Service Bureaus, as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee be and they are hereby approved. (See Attachment III)

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

Vice-President Shea advised the Board that the University construction projects were proceeding according to the planned schedule. He noted that the bids for the Medical Communications Building had been opened on May 31, 1973, that they were within the project budget, and that the contract for construction will be awarded when State approval is received.

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION SUPPORT
--------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University hereby makes a special contribution of $5,000 to the Alumni Association, from funds derived from the Atlantic Coast Conference and from radio broadcasts of University athletic events, this special contribution to aid the Alumni Association in covering the cost of printing and distributing Alumni News, and to assist the Association with general printing and with repairs to Alumni Hall. This special contribution for the current fiscal year only is in addition to the regular annual contribution not to exceed $15,000 from the same sources of funds as authorized by the Board on December 8, 1962.

REPORT ON ACTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOHN C. STENNIS CHAIR IN THE SCHOOL OF LAW
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that all members of the Executive Committee were polled by telephone on May 1 and 2, 1973. The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Law to be known as the John C. Stennis Professorship in Law, effective May 2, 1973.

ESTABLISHMENT OF RENTAL CHARGE FOR STUDENT HOUSING IN THE COPELEY HILL PHASE III PROJECT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that effective with the 1973-1974 session and each session thereafter, the rental charge of $550 per student be made for Copeley Hill III.

REPORT ON THE GOVERNOR'S BUDGET TOUR
------------------------------------

The President reported that Governor Linwood Holton and his Budget Advisers visited the University on May 22, 1973, and that the group toured the Grounds on a bus, viewing new buildings and construction sites. A summary of the University's capital outlay projections was presented to the group in the Fenwick Auditorium following the tour of the Grounds.

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE RECTOR OF THE FORMATION OF AN AD HOC LEGISLATIVE RELATIONS COMMITTEE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector advised that he will appoint an ad hoc Legislative Relations Committee before the next meeting of the Board.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE PROGRESS OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE NOMINATION OF A PRESIDENT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector presented the following statement to the Board:

"As Chairman of the Board of Visitors' Special Committee on the Nomination of a President, it is appropriate that I report the general progress of the Committee to the full Board at its annual meeting today.

As you know, I asked the Faculty Senate and the Student Council to assist the Special Committee in its search and to work together in forwarding suggestions and nominations to the Special Committee. The faculty and the students have responded promptly and established committees to carry out the work of those two bodies.

I am pleased to report that the Faculty Senate Committee on the Nomination of a President and the Student Committee on the Nomination of a President have submitted to the Board's Special Committee two excellent reports on the Office of the President of the University and the general qualifications to be considered in selection of the Fifth President of the University. These reports will guide the Special Committee in its deliberations.

Approximately 150 persons have been nominated to the Special Committee for the position of President of the University. A number of those persons nominated are now teaching at the University. I am happy to report also that many alumni and friends of the University have made nominations to the Committee and have provided us with valuable counsel.

The Special Committee is carrying on its work diligently and has received splendid cooperation from all segments of the University."

RENAMING BROOKS MUSEUM THE LEWIS BROOKS HALL
--------------------------------------------

The structure housing the Department of Environmental Science has been known for many years as Brooks Museum. It served as a museum over much of the last century. The last vestige of the museum disappeared in the Fall of 1972 making the name "Brooks Museum" obsolete.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the structure northeast of the Rotunda previously known as the Brooks Museum be and it is hereby renamed the Lewis Brooks Hall.

SALARY SCALES FOR RESEARCH PERSONNEL
------------------------------------

Entering Step

Maximum Compensation

Research Assistant A

$ 8,400

$10,512

Research Assistant B

11,472

14,328

Research Associate

12,000

15,000

Senior Astronomy and Physics Research Assistant

11,472

15,675

Research Statistician A

7,032

8,784

Research Statistician B

8,784

10,992

Research Statistician C

10,992

13,728

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following annual salary schedules for research personnel as set forth below be and they are hereby approved; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the annual increments shall follow the State scales: Entering StepMaximum CompensationResearch Assistant A$ 8,400$10,512Research Assistant B11,47214,328Research Associate12,00015,000Senior Astronomy and Physics Research Assistant11,47215,675Research Statistician A7,0328,784Research Statistician B8,78410,992Research Statistician C10,99213,728

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SYDNEY F. SMALL SCHOLARSHIPS
-------------------------------------------------

Sydney F. Small, a dedicated trustee of the University of Virginia Graduate Business School Sponsors, passed away at the age of 79 on March 24, 1973, leaving in his Will approximately $500,000 to be added to the endowment funds of the University, the income to be used for fellowships for students in the Graduate School of Business Administration.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Sydney F. Small Fellowships in the Graduate School of Business Administration be and they are hereby established for students in the Graduate School of Business Administration to be awarded in accordance with the standing University policies governing such awards.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$180,633.92

Free service to Counties and Cities

400,350.05

\------------

Total

$580,983.97

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules totaling $580,983.97, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts$180,633.92Free service to Counties and Cities400,350.05------------Total$580,983.97

AMENDMENT TO RESOLUTION OF JUNE 4, 1971 CONTINUING AN INCREMENT OF $5.00 IN THE COMPREHENSIVE FEE FOR FIFTEEN YEARS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In June 1971, the Board increased the Comprehensive Fee by $5.00 per session, effective for the 1971-72 session, to continue for a period of five years, the proceeds to be used solely for the purpose of remodeling Newcomb Hall.

In planning for the development of Lambeth Field housing a building has been designed to provide student activity space. Also certain lounges and meetings rooms have been included in the design of the new dining facility located adjacent to the Alderman and Observatory dormitories. To pay for these facilities, it is proposed that the $5.00 fee increase approved in 1971 for a five-year period be continued in effect for an additional period of fifteen years.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the $5.00 increase in the Comprehensive Fee approved in 1971 for a five-year period be continued in effect until 1991, and that the proceeds therefrom, after the initial five-year period, be used to amortize the cost of student activity space being provided on Lambeth Field and in the Observatory Dining Facility.

ESTABLISHMENT OF AN INSTITUTE OF NATIONAL POLICY STUDIES AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective June 2, 1973, the Institute of National Policy Studies be and it is hereby established at the University of Virginia, the purpose of this Institute to be to conduct studies and investigations of problems at the national level of a political, legal, economic, or social nature, this Institute to be supported by endowment funds previously received from anonymous donors and by additional endowment funds and annual grants as received;RESOLVED FURTHER that the Institute will become operative when the Board of Visitors shall determine, upon the recommendation of the President of the University and the Council of the Institute designated below, that sufficient additional endowment or annual grants or both have been received to support a continuing program consistent with the standards and purposes of the University;RESOLVED FURTHER that the organization and program of the Institute shall be supervised by a Council composed initially of the following members, Linwood Holton, Joseph H. McConnell, Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Frank W. Rogers, Sr., and Burkett Miller, who are hereby elected in their personal capacity without limitation as to terms;RESOLVED FURTHER that additional members, including the incumbent Rector and President, shall be elected from time to time by the Board of Visitors on the nomination of the Council for terms of 8 years each, so arranged as to provide for the termination of their terms on a staggered basis;RESOLVED FURTHER that it shall be the responsibility of the Council to appoint a Director on the nomination of the President of the University with the concurrence of the Board of Visitors and to determine the studies to be undertaken by the Institute on the recommendation of the Director; andPROVIDED FURTHER that the Director of the Institute shall make on behalf of the Council an annual report to the President of the University upon the work of the Institute including a summary of the income and expenditures of the Institute for the year and the proposed budget for the ensuing year.(End of Resolution)In connection with the provisions in the resolution for the selection of the Director, the President asked that the minutes show the understanding of the Board of Visitors that the Council of the Institute is not obliged to appoint the nominee of the President of the University but may accept or reject a nominee.In further amplification of the resolution, the President also requested that the following conceptions as to the general nature of the Institute be shown in the minutes:An Institute of National Policies Studies at the University of VirginiaThe function of the Institute will be to contribute to the solution of major problems at the national level of a political, legal, economic or social nature. It will engage in comprehensive and intensive research into problems such as the Role of the Presidency within the federal system and the Administration of Justice. Research projects of this nature should be limited in number and should be long-range. Short-term and transitory projects should be avoided. Projects undertaken should be brought into relationship to the on-going educational process at the University through participation of University faculty and students. It should be a major objective of each project to engage the attention of the public and the national government and thereby to strengthen the possibility of contributing to solution of the particular problem involved.With these objectives in mind, the Institute should be an integral part of the University but should enjoy the maximum degree of autonomy within the University system. The present Council of the Institute should constitute a permanent Council to oversee its policies and operations. The present Council should be augmented to achieve wider geographical representation. It should be the responsibility of the Council to appoint a Director on the nomination of the President of the University with the concurrence of the Board of Visitors. The Council should be responsible for determining the projects to be undertaken by the Center on the recommendation of the Director.A small group of Senior Fellows with scholarly distinction in separate disciplines should constitute an advisory group to the Director. There should be no tenure in the Institute, but where appropriate the Director and Senior Fellows might hold joint appointments in University departments.A Project Director of outstanding competence in the field should be appointed for each project on a contract basis.Depending upon the nature and extent of the project, Research Fellows in a range of disciplines appropriate to the project should be appointed for each project also on a contract basis. Graduate students from the various departments of the University should be employed where appropriate as Research Assistants, and their research should be given recognition within the departments of the University to which they are attached. The Institute itself would not have a curriculum as such and would not grant degrees.A group of distinguished individuals from public, professional, and business life should be appointed for each project as Fellows of the Institute to participate in the work of a particular project from time to time throughout the project's life and to engage in appropriate public consideration of its results and its conclusion.The Institute should be the focal point for public policy research and debate of the southeastern region of the United States and should, wherever possible, enter into relationships with other regional institutions. It should not, however, be limited in its institutional relationships to the region of the southeast but should engage in exchanges of personnel, information, and the results of its work, with institutions throughout the nation.Situated so close to Washington, it should have as a major objective providing the government of the United States and particularly the Congress, with the results of its research and, without becoming an adjunct to the government or party-affiliated, it should seek to engage members of the three branches of the national government in its work. (Summary of the substance of Part II, conclusions and recommendations of a Report by James W. Barco, October 25, 1972.)

REPORT ON PLANS FOR SELF-STUDY
------------------------------

The President explained to the Board that at the direction of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, a self-study is carried out once each decade for each institution. The University will conduct the self-study next year. A steering committee has already completed much of the planning for the self-study. The steering committee invited the Board of Visitors to name one of its members to the Subcommittee on the Institutional Statement of Purpose. After discussion, it was concluded that it would be more appropriate not to name a Board member to sit on the Sub-committee but instead the Chairman of the Educational Policy Committee would consult with the committee to assist it in its mission.

Guidelines for Student Activities Fund Allocation
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Student Activities Committee shall be charged with the authority and responsibility, under the President, for supervision of the Student Activities Fund which is made up of student activities fees. With respect to allocation from the Fund, unless otherwise directed by the President, the procedures shall be as follows: (1) the Committee shall review budgets submitted by The Cavalier Daily and approve allocations thereto; (2) the budgets of all other organizations will be reviewed by Student Council which will allocate funds from student activities fees to the organizations.Funds may be allocated by Student Council to recognized student organizations in the following categories, The Rector and Visitors having determined that activities in these categories are related to the educational purpose of the University;(1) student governments and councils;(2) departmental, academic, and curricular activities;(3) club sports;(4) curricularly-oriented publications;(5) the student radio stations;(6) fine arts activities(7) the University designated coordinating agency for student volunteer service activities;(8) student clinical training programs(9) hobby organizations; and(10) non-partisan groups whose predominant purpose is to present speakers on a non-partisan basis to speak on topics of probable general interest to the University.No monies from these funds shall be given for:(1) honoraria or similar fees;(2) for religious activities or activities sponsored by religious organizations;(3) for social entertainment or for organizations whose activities are substantially social;(4) the admission to the organization may not be restricted by reason of race, religion, national origin, sex (except for competitive athletics), or political affiliation. In determining such discrimination, it is not sufficient to look merely to the constitution of such an organization but to consider also its actual practices and operations;(5) for activities which would jeopardize the University's status under Section 501 (3) (c) of The Internal Revenue Code.(6) for political activities or activities sponsored by political organizations. Political activities are, in general, those normally engaged in by political parties or special interest groups, such as electioneering or lobbying. Electioneering shall include the broad range of those activities incidental to the promotion of partisan political ideas or programs and their representatives. Lobbying shall include any activity whose purpose is to procure or prevent, the acceptance of any social, economic or political theory as an operating principle of polity. This shall not include engaging in non-partisan analyses, study, or research or making those results available to the public. A public interest organization will not fail to meet the test merely because it advocates, as an insubstantial part of its activity, the adoption of rejection of legislation.The ceiling on the aggregate amount allocated to all such organizations will be the then current total student activities fees less the amount approved by the Student Activities Committee for The Cavalier Daily. Each organization whose budget is reviewed by the Student Council will have a right of appeal to the Student Activities Committee. Any student or student group may also appeal to Student Council and to the Student Activities Committee. If no appeal is taken, a Student Council officer will draw a check on the Student Activities Fund for the amount specified by Council payable to the organization receiving the allocation. The Student Activities Committee shall examine on its own motion any budgets that may be approved by the Student Council for organizations deemed by the Committee to be within the categories noted above.This resolution shall apply to decisions made for fund allocations after September 1, 1973.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

In discussing Gifts and Grants to the University, the President expressed to Visitor Waller Barrett appreciation for his continuing generous gifts to the University for the purchase of Literary Americana. Vice-President for Business and Finance Vincent Shea noted that the predicted decline in federal research and training grants is now being felt.

ESTABLISHMENT OF TUITION CHARGE FOR OFF-GROUNDS DEGREE PROGRAMS IN THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a tuition charge of $40 per semester hour for off-Grounds degree programs in the School of Continuing Education be and it is hereby established, effective June 1, 1973.

ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ADMISSIONS DEPOSIT OF $100 in the SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there be established in the School of Medicine an admissions deposit in the amount of $100, effective for students entering the School of Medicine for the 1974-1975 session and thereafter.

LETTER FROM STUDENT COUNCIL PRESIDENT JAMES M. RINACA
-----------------------------------------------------

The Rector read to the Board of Visitors a letter of appreciation from Mr. James M. Rinaca, retiring President of Student Council, in which he expressed the thanks of the Student Council to the Board for a high degree of cooperation which now exists between the Student Council and the Board.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTS FOR PRIMARY CARE CENTER
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the firm of the Architects Collaborative of Boston Massachusetts be and it is hereby approved for the Primary Care Center.

VINCENT ESTATE - SPOIL DISPOSAL SERVITUDE
-----------------------------------------

Mr. Shea informed the meeting that the Board of Commissioners of the Port of New Orleans had requested a temporary spoil disposal servitude on certain lands situated in the St. Bernard Parish, Louisiana, in which the University owns an undivided interest. Mr. Shea explained that the land on which a servitude was requested had heretofore been subject to a previous temporary servitude granted by the University and all of the co-owners to the Board of Commissioners of the Port of New Orleans which said servitude had expired; that the proposed servitude is substantially in the same form as the one which had expired; that the other co-owners had executed or agreed to execute the proposed servitude and he recommended to the Board that the University authorize its representative to execute the proposed servitude on its behalf.

After discussion, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Richard W. Gamble, the representative of the University, be and he is hereby authorized on behalf of the University to execute a temporary spoil disposal servitude in favor of the Board of Commissioners of the Port of New Orleans with respect to lands in which the University owns an interest situated in St. Bernard Parish, Louisiana, substantially in the form of the servitude heretofore executed under the date of April 21, 1959.

APPROVAL OF THE MASTER PLAN
---------------------------

The final report of the Development Plan, prepared by Sasaki, Dawson, DeMay Associates, Incorporated, under the date of March 1973 was approved by the Board of Visitors.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Miss Madeline M. Allen as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. George E. Culbertson as Associate Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Van W. Daniel, III, as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Charles F. Denny as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mrs. Joan W. Dollard as Assistant Professor of French, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Ronald W. Elosser as Assistant Professor of Physical Education, for one year, effective June 1, 1973.Mr. Ronald H. Heise as Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Jimmy N. Humphreys as Associate Professor of Education, effective July 1, 1973.Mrs. Catherine J. Mahoney as Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. William F. Maxwell as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Michael E. O'Donnell as Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mrs. Marilyn C. Pace as Assistant Professor of Social Welfare, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. David F. Reaser as Assistant Professor of Physical Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Marvis C. Webb as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Roy L. Wells, Jr., as Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1973.

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mr. Philip C. Shelton, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Carl L. Gusler, Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, to complete course work and meet residence requirements for the doctoral program in social work.Mr. George L. Hawpe, Assistant Professor of Political Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to complete requirements for the Ph.D. degree.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Paul E. Bayes as Acting Chairman, Department of Business and Public Administration, for the period April 3, 1973, through June 30, 1973.Mr. Zougul H. Chowdhury as Chairman, Department of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Miss Madeline M. Allen as Associate Dean of Students, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. James R. Baird as Chairman, Department of Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Edward L. Henson, Jr., as Chairman, Department of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. William B. Herlinger as Chairman, Department of Modern Foreign Languages, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Jack M. Holland as Chairman, Department of Education and Psychology, and Director, Summer School, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. William J. Hooper, Jr., as Chairman, Department of Physical Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Jimmy N. Humphreys as Director of Admissions and Financial Aid and Placement, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Judd W. Lewis as Chairman, Department of Humanities, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Richard H. Peake as Chairman, Department of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.

SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSRE-ELECTION
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. M. Howard Bryant as Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

RETIREMENT
----------

The following retirement was announced: Mr. Andre C. de Porry, Lecturer in Continuing Education, effective June 30, 1973. Mr. de Porry has been a member of the faculty since 1952.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. M. Howard Bryant as Director, Department of Urban Affairs and Community Services, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Frank E. Flora as Associate Dean, School of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Wendell M. Lewis as Dean for Instruction, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. John D. Murdaugh as Assistant to the Dean for Special Programs, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-APPOINTMENT
------------------------------------------------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Robert J. Gwinn as Associate Director, Central Virginia Regional Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

HAMPTON ROADS REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-APPOINTMENT
---------------------------------------------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. David A. Brewster as Director, Hampton Roads Regional Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Peter H. Johnson as Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mrs. Frances B. Rawls as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mrs. Frances B. Rawls as Director of Admissions and Counseling, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. John M. Dunnavant as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Peter R. Henriques as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Everett F. Lang as Assistant Director, Richmond Regional Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSELECTION
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. William A. Harris as Lecturer in Continuing Education for one year, effective June 1, 1973,

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. William A. Harris as Program Director for Business and Industry, for one year, effective June 1, 1973.

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. James A. Mundy, IV, as Assistant Director, Roanoke Regional Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

On motion the meeting was adjourned at 3:20 p.m.

RCB:jb

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 1973-74 BUDGET REVENUE PROJECTIONS June 1, 1973UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 1973-74 BUDGET EXPENDITURE PROJECTIONS June 1, 1973UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA HOSPITAL DIVISION 1973-74 BUDGET REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE PROJECTIONS June 1, 1973ATTACHMENT III UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION AND PUBLIC SERVICE ACTIVITIES 1973-74 BUDGET REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE PROJECTIONS June 1, 1973UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE 1973-74 BUDGET REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE PROJECTIONS June 1, 1973
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Revised Budget 1972-73

Budget Estimate 1973-74

Increase or Decrease

EDUCATIONAL AND GENERAL

State Appropriations

$23,946,865

$27,123,070

$3,176,205

Tuition and Fees

9,365,000

10,150,000

785,000

Gifts and Grants, and Endowment Income

8,845,494

7,649,006

(1,196,488)

Sales, Services and Other Revenues

6,673,165

7,607,215

934,050

\-----------

\-----------

\-----------

Total Educational and General

$48,830,524

$52,529,291

$3,698,767

STUDENT AID

State Appropriations

$ 325,775

$ 345,570

$ 19,795

Gifts and Grants, and Endowment Income

1,106,475

1,113,315

6,840

\-----------

\-----------

\-----------

Total Student Aid

$ 1,432,250

$ 1,458,885

$ 26,635

AUXILIARY ENTERPRISES

Housing & Food Services

$ 4,836,100

$ 5,092,100

$ 256,000

Student Health Services

613,000

658,000

45,000

Newcomb Hall and Related Activities

1,038,000

1,227,900

189,900

Athletics and Related Activities

1,024,000

1,124,000

100,000

Parking & Transit and Other

269,300

357,800

88,500

\------------

\-----------

\----------

Total Auxiliary Enterprises

$ 7,780,400

$ 8,459,800

$ 679,400

TOTAL REVENUE BUDGETED

$58,043,174

$62,447,976

$4,404,802

Revised Budget 1972-73

Budget Estimate 1973-74

Increase or Decrease

EDUCATIONAL AND GENERAL

Instruction & Departmental Research:

School of Medicine

$12,955,780

$13,166,141

$210,361

Liberal Arts, Sciences and Professional Schools

21,575,845

23,779,883

2,204,038

Instruction - Summer Session

766,981

799,935

32,954

Organized Activities Related to Instruction

557,780

560,800

3,020

University Libraries

3,551,771

3,810,446

258,675

Research Services and Administration

563,893

575,734

11,841

Physical Plant Operations & Maintenance

4,049,320

4,500,122

450,802

General Administration, Student Services and General Expense

4,809,154

5,091,230

282,076

\-----------

\-----------

\-----------

Total Educational & General

$48,830,524

$52,284,291

$3,453,767

STUDENT AID

$1,432,250

$1,458,885

$26,635

AUXILIARY ENTERPRISES

Housing & Food Service

$4,832,382

$5,090,918

$258,536

Student Health Services

612,822

657,845

45,023

Newcomb Hall & Related Activities

1,037,180

1,227,900

190,720

Athletics and Related Activities

1,024,000

1,119,844

95,844

Parking and Transit and Other

269,300

357,712

88,412

\-----------

\----------

\--------

Total Auxiliary Enterprises

$ 7,775,684

$8,454,219

$678,535

TOTAL EXPENDITURES BUDGETED

$58,038,458

$62,197,395

$4,158,937

REVENUE:

Revised Budget 1972-1973

Budgeted for 1973-1974

Increase or Decrease

Revenue from Patient Services

$15,155,140

$16,495,800

$1,340,660

Revenue from Other Sources

406,000

384,000

(22,000)

\-----------

\-----------

\-----------

Total, Hospital Revenues

$15,561,140

$16,879,800

$1,318,660

State General Fund Appropriation

$ 6,218,545

$ 6,864,000

$ 645,455

Total Revenues Budgeted

$21,779,685

$23,743,800

$1,964,115

EXPENDITURES:

Administration

$ 2,069,610

$ 2,237,280

$ 167,670

Professional Care of Patients

16,317,535

17,838,348

1,520,813

Operation of Dietary Services

1,193,730

1,327,800

134,070

Housekeeping and Linen Service

882,365

999,504

117,139

Maintenance of Buildings & Grounds

1,316,445

1,340,868

24,423

\-----------

\-----------

\----------

Total Expenditures Budgeted

$21,779,685

$23,743,800

$1,964,115

REVENUE:

Revised Budget 1972-73

Budgeted for 1973-74

Increase or Decrease

State Appropriations

$1,301,055

$1,529,075

$228,020

Tuition and Fees

2,146,213

2,111,433

(34,780)

Special Services Income

153,614

174,871

21,257

Gifts and Grants

108,280

105,268

(3,012)

Miscellaneous Income

52,692

84,086

31,394

\----------

\----------

\----------

Total Revenue Budgeted

$3,761,854

$4,004,733

$242,879

EXPENDITURES:

School of Continuing Education:

Instruction

$2,304,295

$2,377,426

$ 73,131

Special Services

253,594

255,711

2,117

General Administration

522,838

562,999

40,161

\----------

\----------

\----------

Total for School of Continuing Education

$3,080,727

$3,196,136

$115,409

Public Service Activities:

681,127

690,954

9,827

\----------

\----------

\--------

Total Expenditures Budgeted

$3,761,854

$3,887,090

$125,236

Revised Budget 1972-73

Budgeted for 1973-74

Increase or Decrease

REVENUE

State Appropriations

$ 921,379

$ 941,315

$ 19,936

Tuition and Fees

311,797

312,300

503

Gifts and Grants

50,768

37,936

(12,832)

Auxiliary Services Income

28,800

57,600

28,800

\----------

\----------

\----------

Total Revenue Budgeted

$1,312,744

$1,349,151

$ 36,407

EXPENDITURES

Educational & General:

Instruction - Regular Session

$ 728,656

$ 747,021

$ 18,365

Instruction - Summer Session

33,812

36,800

2,988

Library

115,708

97,570

(18,138)

Physical Plant Maint. & Operation

154,077

148,481

(5,596)

General Administration & Student Services

251,691

260,444

8,753

\----------

\----------

\----------

Total Educational & General

$1,283,944

$1,290,316

$ 6,372

Auxiliary Enterprises

$ 28,800

$ 57,600

$ 28,800

\----------

\----------

\----------

Total Expenditures Budgeted

$1,312,744

$1,347,916

$ 35,172

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 1973-74 BUDGET REVENUE PROJECTIONS June 1, 1973Revised Budget 1972-73Budget Estimate 1973-74Increase or DecreaseEDUCATIONAL AND GENERALState Appropriations$23,946,865$27,123,070$3,176,205Tuition and Fees9,365,00010,150,000785,000Gifts and Grants, and Endowment Income8,845,4947,649,006(1,196,488)Sales, Services and Other Revenues6,673,1657,607,215934,050---------------------------------Total Educational and General$48,830,524$52,529,291$3,698,767STUDENT AIDState Appropriations$ 325,775$ 345,570$ 19,795Gifts and Grants, and Endowment Income1,106,4751,113,3156,840---------------------------------Total Student Aid$ 1,432,250$ 1,458,885$ 26,635AUXILIARY ENTERPRISESHousing & Food Services$ 4,836,100$ 5,092,100$ 256,000Student Health Services613,000658,00045,000Newcomb Hall and Related Activities1,038,0001,227,900189,900Athletics and Related Activities1,024,0001,124,000100,000Parking & Transit and Other269,300357,80088,500---------------------------------Total Auxiliary Enterprises$ 7,780,400$ 8,459,800$ 679,400TOTAL REVENUE BUDGETED$58,043,174$62,447,976$4,404,802

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 1973-74 BUDGET EXPENDITURE PROJECTIONS June 1, 1973Revised Budget 1972-73Budget Estimate 1973-74Increase or DecreaseEDUCATIONAL AND GENERALInstruction & Departmental Research:School of Medicine$12,955,780$13,166,141$210,361Liberal Arts, Sciences and Professional Schools21,575,84523,779,8832,204,038Instruction - Summer Session766,981799,93532,954Organized Activities Related to Instruction557,780560,8003,020University Libraries3,551,7713,810,446258,675Research Services and Administration563,893575,73411,841Physical Plant Operations & Maintenance4,049,3204,500,122450,802General Administration, Student Services and General Expense4,809,1545,091,230282,076---------------------------------Total Educational & General$48,830,524$52,284,291$3,453,767STUDENT AID$1,432,250$1,458,885$26,635AUXILIARY ENTERPRISESHousing & Food Service$4,832,382$5,090,918$258,536Student Health Services612,822657,84545,023Newcomb Hall & Related Activities1,037,1801,227,900190,720Athletics and Related Activities1,024,0001,119,84495,844Parking and Transit and Other269,300357,71288,412-----------------------------Total Auxiliary Enterprises$ 7,775,684$8,454,219$678,535TOTAL EXPENDITURES BUDGETED$58,038,458$62,197,395$4,158,937

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA HOSPITAL DIVISION 1973-74 BUDGET REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE PROJECTIONS June 1, 1973REVENUE:Revised Budget 1972-1973Budgeted for 1973-1974Increase or DecreaseRevenue from Patient Services$15,155,140$16,495,800$1,340,660Revenue from Other Sources406,000384,000(22,000)---------------------------------Total, Hospital Revenues$15,561,140$16,879,800$1,318,660State General Fund Appropriation$ 6,218,545$ 6,864,000$ 645,455Total Revenues Budgeted$21,779,685$23,743,800$1,964,115EXPENDITURES:Administration$ 2,069,610$ 2,237,280$ 167,670Professional Care of Patients16,317,53517,838,3481,520,813Operation of Dietary Services1,193,7301,327,800134,070Housekeeping and Linen Service882,365999,504117,139Maintenance of Buildings & Grounds1,316,4451,340,86824,423--------------------------------Total Expenditures Budgeted$21,779,685$23,743,800$1,964,115

ATTACHMENT III UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION AND PUBLIC SERVICE ACTIVITIES 1973-74 BUDGET REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE PROJECTIONS June 1, 1973REVENUE:Revised Budget 1972-73Budgeted for 1973-74Increase or DecreaseState Appropriations$1,301,055$1,529,075$228,020Tuition and Fees2,146,2132,111,433(34,780)Special Services Income153,614174,87121,257Gifts and Grants108,280105,268(3,012)Miscellaneous Income52,69284,08631,394------------------------------Total Revenue Budgeted$3,761,854$4,004,733$242,879EXPENDITURES:School of Continuing Education:Instruction$2,304,295$2,377,426$ 73,131Special Services253,594255,7112,117General Administration522,838562,99940,161------------------------------Total for School of Continuing Education$3,080,727$3,196,136$115,409Public Service Activities:681,127690,9549,827----------------------------Total Expenditures Budgeted$3,761,854$3,887,090$125,236

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE 1973-74 BUDGET REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE PROJECTIONS June 1, 1973Revised Budget 1972-73Budgeted for 1973-74Increase or DecreaseREVENUEState Appropriations$ 921,379$ 941,315$ 19,936Tuition and Fees311,797312,300503Gifts and Grants50,76837,936(12,832)Auxiliary Services Income28,80057,60028,800------------------------------Total Revenue Budgeted$1,312,744$1,349,151$ 36,407EXPENDITURESEducational & General:Instruction - Regular Session$ 728,656$ 747,021$ 18,365Instruction - Summer Session33,81236,8002,988Library115,70897,570(18,138)Physical Plant Maint. & Operation154,077148,481(5,596)General Administration & Student Services251,691260,4448,753------------------------------Total Educational & General$1,283,944$1,290,316$ 6,372Auxiliary Enterprises$ 28,800$ 57,600$ 28,800------------------------------Total Expenditures Budgeted$1,312,744$1,347,916$ 35,172