 TEI to HTML

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA January 24, 1974
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:30 p.m. on January 24, 1974 in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, Mrs. E. Parker Brown, Robert P. Buford, Warren B. French, Jr., J. Hartwell Harrison, W. Wright Harrison, William E. Leggett, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, Brownie E. Polly, Jr., and William L. Zimmer, III. Absent: Visitors William S. Potter, Donald E. Santarelli and Hugh Scott. Messrs. Neill H. Alford, Jr., David A. Shannon, Vincent Shea, Edwin M. Crawford, Ernest H. Ern and Kenneth R. Crispell were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of October 26, 1973, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

RETIREMENT FROM THE BOARD OF MRS. E. PARKER BROWN AND DR. J. HARTWELL HARRISON
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector expressed the warm appreciation of the Board for the dedicated service of Mrs. E. Parker Brown and Dr. J. Hartwell Harrison. The terms of service of both of these Visitors will end on February 28, 1974.

ELECTION OF SECRETARY PRO TEMPORE TO COVER THE PERIOD MARCH 1, 1974 TO MARCH 29, 1974
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Jr., the present Secretary of the Board, was elected for a term of four years effective March 1, 1970. The Code of Virginia provides that the election of the Secretary shall be held at the first meeting after the 28th of February. In order to provide for continuous service, Mr. Bice was unanimously elected Secretary pro tempore to cover the period March 1 to March 29, 1974.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Leo J. Alex as Visiting Assistant Professor of Math, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Mr. Bob Baker as Visiting Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Mr. Richard B. Bilder as Visiting Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Ralph C. Bledsoe as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, one-half time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Dr. Robert L. Brickhouse as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period October 15, 1973, through June 30, 1974.Mr. Roger W. Carter as Visiting Professor of Mathematics, for two months, effective March 16, 1974.Mr. Francis K. Degges as Instructor in Marine Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Gerald L. Engel as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Richard A. Flom as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. J. Richard Frazier as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period February 1, 1974, through June 30, 1974.Mrs. Vivian V. Gordon as Instructor in Anthropology, four-fifths time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Mr. Charles H. Hudgins as Lecturer in Commerce, for one year, effective February 1, 1974.Mr. Lewis B. Johnson, Jr., as Research Professor of Materials Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974. Mr. Johnson has served as Lecturer in the School of Engineering and Applied Science.Dr. Herbert H. J. Keil as Lecturer in Psychiatry (Parapsychology), for six months, effective March 1, 1974.Captain Egbert E. Lawrence, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Military Science, for two years, effective September 1974.Dr. David E. Longnecker as Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective December 1, 1973.Dr. Jan C. Louw as Associate Professor of Psychiatry, part-time, for one year, effective January 1, 1974.Dr. Elizabeth S. Mann as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for the period November 1, 1973, through June 30, 1974.Mr. John A. McLaughlin as Visiting Assistant Professor of Education, one-half time, for the period October 1, 1973, through August 31, 1974.Mr. John C. Merrill as Visiting Professor of Speech Communication, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Mr. Thomas R. Morris as Visiting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Dr. J. Treacy O'Hanlan as Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, for one year, effective November 1, 1973.Mr. Garland Okerlund, Jr., as Associate Professor of Landscape Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974. Mr. Okerlund served as Assistant Professor during the 1973-74 academic session.Mr. John T. Parsons as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Roger A. Pielke as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for two years, effective July 1, 1974.Mrs. Judith D. Pittard as Instructor in Nursing, one-half time, for the period October 9, 1973, through August 31, 1974.Miss Cheryl Praeger as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Mr. Morris H. Roberts, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Philip A. Sansone as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for the period October 16, 1973, through June 30, 1974.Mr. Glenn E. Stoner as Research Associate Professor of Materials Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974. Mr. Stoner has served as Lecturer in the School of Engineering and Applied Science.Mr. Gresham M. Sykes as Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Sten Thore as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Mr. Anderson Todd as Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Mrs. Katharine M. Webb as Instructor in Pediatrics, for the period October 1, 1973, through June 30, 1974.Mr. Winston R. Weisman as Visiting Professor of Architectural History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.Mr. Ronald R. Workman as Lecturer in City Planning, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Ronald C. Adams as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Malcolm Bell as Assistant Professor of Art, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mrs. Susan E. Bloomberg as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. Joseph A. Bono as Assistant Professor of Surgery, part-time, for two years, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. George Cooper as Visiting Professor of Radiology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Donald A. Danielson as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Thomas H. Dawson as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. James N. Demas as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. Byard S. Deputy as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Gadis J. Dillon as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. Antonio T. Donato as Assistant Professor of Surgery, part-time, for two years, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Richard F. Edlich as Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mrs. Virginia H. Edwards as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective June 1, 1974.Dr. James E. Etheridge as Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Paul M. Fishbane as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. Joseph Fletcher as Visiting Professor of Medical Ethics, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Kenneth R. Hall as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. C. Donald Hammond as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. James E. Holloway as Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Richard N. Johnson as Assistant Professor of Neurology and of Biomedical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. J. Richard Keefe as Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. John L. Knapp as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period January 16, 1974, through June 30, 1975.Mr. Burton J. Litman as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for two years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Michael L. McCartney as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Ronald H. McKnight as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Darren L. Newtson as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Frederick E. Nolting, Jr., as Elis and Signe Olsson Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Nicholas Ozerov as Acting Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. Francis P. Parker as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Herbert M. Phillips as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective January 1, 1974.Dr. Elizabeth M. Ramsey as Mamie A. Jessup Visiting Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, one-fourth time, for one year, effective January 1, 1974.Dr. James C. Sams as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Donald B. Sanders as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective January 1, 1974.Mrs. Edith R. Schwartz as Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. K. L. Seshagiri as Professor of Religious Studies, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. Philip T. Shiner as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, part-time, for one year, effective October 1, 1973.Dr. James G. Simmons as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Stephen S. Skjei as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. Nickolas J. Sojka as Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Miss Lenore Street as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. George C. Theodoridis as Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for the period September 1, 1974, through June 30, 1976.Miss Louise M. Walton as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1974Dr. William B. Wartman as Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mrs. Barbara A. Waswo as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. John H. Whittaker as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Michael G. Wilkins as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mrs. Catherine H. Williamson as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Joseph C. Zieman as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Dr. Donald B. Nolan, Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology, for one year, effective November 1, 1973.Mrs. Patricia M. Rodier, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for the period January 1, 1974, through June 30, 1974.Dr. Philip A. Singer, Research Associate, to Instructor in Neurology, for the period January 1, 1974, through June 30, 1974.Dr. Frederick K. Smith, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Avery Catlin, Professor of Materials Science, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975, for personal reasons.Mr. Carl A. Erdman, Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, to work at Brookhaven National Laboratory on Fast Reactor Safety.Mr. Douglas P. Howard, Associate Professor of Education, for the period February 1, 1974, through December 31, 1974, to serve on a special project in Australia.Mr. Robert M. Hubbard, Professor of Chemical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, for personal reasons.Mr. John J. Norcross, Associate Professor of Marine Science, for the period August 15, 1973, through February 15, 1975, to complete requirements for the Ph.D. degree.Mr. William Rotch, Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, to continue appointment as Visiting Professor at IMEDE, Lausanne, Switzerland.Mr. Herbert Stein, A. Willis Robertson Professor of Economics, for the period March 1, 1974, through August 31, 1974, to continue duties as Chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisors.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Harold W. Berk, from Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, to Research Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Frederick M. Denny, from Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, to Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for the period January 1, 1974, through May 31, 1975.Mrs. Mary Ann Dinger, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for the period November 1, 1973, through June 30, 1974.Mr. Edward G. Dinwiddie, from Instructor, General Faculty, to Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mrs. Deborah Gutschera, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for the period November 21, 1973, through May 31, 1976.Dr. Charles J. Tegtmeyer, from Assistant Professor of Radiology, to Assistant Professor of Radiology and of Anatomy, for three years, effective October 16, 1973.Miss Sharon O. Young, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for the period November 1, 1973, through May 31, 1974.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Dale R. Calder, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, effective August 31, 1973, to accept other employment.Miss Mary E. Hazzard, Associate Professor of Nursing, effective June 30, 1974, to move nearer her family.Mrs. Joann Lazarus, Assistant Professor of Education, effective November 30, 1973, for personal reasons.Mr. Kenneth L. Marcellus, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, effective August 31, 1973, to accept other employment.Mr. George B. Matthews, Assistant Dean of the School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective January 31, 1974, to accept the position of Dean of Admissions.Miss Mona L. Moughton, Associate Professor of Nursing, effective June 30, 1974, because of family responsibilities.Mr. Robert H. Owens as Chairman of the Department of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, effective May 31, 1974, for personal reasons.Dr. David E. Smith, Professor of Pathology, effective December 31, 1973, to assume executive responsibilities with the American Board of Medical Specialties.Mr. S. DeLacy Stith, Instructor in Law and Assistant Dean of Admissions, effective October 31, 1973, to enter private practice.Dr. Paul R. Van Ostenberg, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective January 31, 1974, to accept a position at the University of North Carolina.Mr. H. Conrad Warlick, Assistant Professor of Education and Associate Dean of Admissions, effective January 31, 1974, to accept a position at Mary Washington College.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Dr. Robert M. Blizzard as Chairman, Department of Pediatrics, for the period December 1, 1973, through June 30, 1978.Mr. Roger W. Carter as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two months, effective March 16, 1974.Mr. Martin Havran as Chairman, Department of History, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Charles H. Hudgins as Assistant Director, Computing Activities, Region II Computing Center, State of Virginia, for the period February 1, 1974, through June 30, 1975.Dr. Hubert A. Marshall as Vice-Chairman, Department of Opthalmology, for one year, effective November 1, 1973.Mr. George B. Matthews as Dean of Admissions, for the period February 1, 1974, through June 30, 1979.Mr. Roger A. Pielke as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Benjamin C. Sturgill as Acting Chairman, Department of Pathology, effective January 1, 1974, until a new departmental chairman is appointed.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Dr. Phillip M. Allen as Vice-Chairman, Department of Pathology (Clinical), for one year, effective May 1, 1974.Mr. Roger N. Gaunt as Director, Division of Administrative Systems, Computing Activities, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. David C. Jordan as Chairman, Department of Government and Foreign Affairs, for five years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Frederick T. Kain as Associate Director for Finance Control, Computing Activities, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Bernard A. Morin as Assistant Dean, School of Commerce, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Charles A. Plesums as Director, Division of Academic Computing, Computing Activities, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Nickolas J. Sojka as Director, Vivarium, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Peyton E. Weary as Vice-Chairman, Department of Dermatology, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Donald J. Wright as Director, Computing Activities, and Director, Region II Computing Center, State of Virginia, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.

DEATH OF MR. ALEXANDER N. VYSSOTSKY
-----------------------------------

Mr. Alexander N. Vyssotsky, Professor Emeritus of Astronomy, died on December 31, 1973, at the age of 85. He served on the faculty of the University of Virginia from 1923 to 1958.

RESIGNATION OF MR. NEILL H. ALFORD, JR., AS SPECIAL COUNSEL TO THE PRESIDENT AND LEGAL ADVISER TO THE RECTOR AND BOARD
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Neill H. Alford, Jr., will resign as Special Counsel to the President and Legal Adviser to the Rector and Board effective June 30, 1974. The President expressed warm appreciation for Mr. Alford's dedicated service, both as a faculty member and as Special Counsel and Legal Adviser. Mr. Alford will become the Dean of the Law School of the University of Georgia on July 1, 1974.

REPORT ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE WITH REGARD TO THE ELECTION OF DR. ROBERT M. BLIZZARD AS B. ARMISTEAD SHEPHERD PROFESSOR OF PEDIATRICS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the following resolution was adopted by the Executive Committee on November 29, 1973: RESOLVED by The Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia as authorized by Section 23.75 of the Code of Virginia, that Dr. Robert M. Blizzard be and he is hereby elected as B. Armistead Shepherd Professor of Pediatrics, effective December 1, 1973.

REPORT ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE WITH REGARD TO THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE DORMITORY REVENUE BONDS, SERIES B
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the following resolution was adopted by the Executive Committee on November 15, 1973: RESOLVED by The Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the low bid of 5.85045% submitted at 12:00 Noon on November 15, 1973, by the First National Exchange Bank of Roanoke be and it is hereby accepted for the $500,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Clinch Valley College Dormitory Revenue Bonds, Series B, which are to be issued as authorized by The Rector and Visitors in its resolution of October 26, 1973.

NAMING OF THE NEW SCHOOL OF EDUCATION BUILDING
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the new School of Education Building be and it is hereby named the William Henry Ruffner Hall.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$215,735.59

Free service to Counties and Cities

221,839.19

\------------

$437,574.78

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules totaling $437,574.78, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts$215,735.59Free service to Counties and Cities221,839.19------------$437,574.78

RESOLUTION CONCERNING SITE FOR NEURO-PSYCHIATRIC INSTITUTE
----------------------------------------------------------

A revised plan for the establishment of a Neuro-Psychiatric Institute calls for a facility close to the Medical Center. The previously approved site is not suitable under the new plan. Therefore the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resolution adopted on October 26, 1973, expressing the willingness of the University to convey a parcel of land near the intersection of U.S. Routes 250 and 29 By-pass to the State Hospital Board as a site for a Neuro-Psychiatric Institute, be and it is hereby rescinded.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

The President distributed a list of Gifts and Grants received since the last meeting of the Board. He expressed his personal gratitude for the generousity of individuals and foundations that made contributions to the University.

RENTAL INCREASES FOR PAVILIONS ON THE LAWNS
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that in the face of rising costs, the Finance Committee be and it is hereby directed to investigate and adjust the rental charges of the buildings listed below:Pavilion IPavilion IIPavilion IIIPavilion IVPavilion VPavilion V AnnexPavilion VIPavilion IXPavilion X

RENTAL INCREASES FOR FACULTY AND STAFF RESIDENCES
-------------------------------------------------

Facility

Current Rental Rates Per Mo.

Proposed Increase

Proposed Rate Per Month

Faculty & Staff

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom

$115.00

$15.00

$130.00

2 Bedroom

$120.00

$15.00

$135.00

3 Bedroom (Houses)

$120.00

$20.00

$140.00

Townhouses

3 Bedroom

$195.00

0

$195.00

Facility

Current Rental Rates Per Mo.

Proposed Increase

Proposed Rate Per Month

Farm House (121 Mimosa)

Apt. 1

$ 90.00

$15.00

$105.00

Apt. 2

$110.00

$15.00

$125.00

Apt. 3

$ 85.00

$15.00

$100.00

Apt. 4

$100.00

$15.00

$115.00

Sundry Rentals

Faculty Apts.

Apt. 11

$110.00

$15.00

$125.00

Apt. 12

$110.00

$10.00

$120.00

Apt. 14

$105.00

$10.00

$115.00

Apt. 15

$100.00

$10.00

$110.00

Apt. 21

$ 60.00

$10.00

$ 70.00

Apt. 22

$ 60.00

$15.00

$ 75.00

Apt. 23

$ 60.00

$10.00

$ 70.00

Apt. 24

$ 60.00

$10.00

$ 70.00

Apt. 25

$ 70.00

$15.00

$ 85.00

Apt. 26

$ 70.00

$10.00

$ 80.00

Apt. 27

$ 70.00

$10.00

$ 80.00

Apt. 28

$ 65.00

$10.00

$ 75.00

Apt. 31

$ 75.00

$10.00

$ 85.00

Apt. 32

$ 70.00

$10.00

$ 80.00

Apt. 33

$ 80.00

$15.00

$ 95.00

Apt. 34

$ 85.00

$10.00

$ 95.00

Apt. 35

$ 80.00

$10.00

$ 90.00

Apt. 36

$ 80.00

$10.00

$ 90.00

Monroe Lane

1 Bedroom

$100.00

$10.00

$110.00

2 Bedroom

$140.00

$10.00

$150.00

Efficiency

$ 70.00

$10.00

$ 80.00

Vysotsky Cottage

$ 85.00

$10.00

$ 95.00

South Cottage

$ 85.00

$10.00

$ 95.00

Upper Alden

$110.00

$10.00

$120.00

Lower Alden

$100.00

$10.00

$110.00

Lower Mews

$ 75.00

$10.00

$ 85.00

Upper Mews

$ 68.00

$10.00

$ 78.00

Morea

$ 80.00

$10.00

$ 90.00

McGuffey Cottage

$ 65.00

$10.00

$ 75.00

Farm House

$ 30.00

$10.00

$ 40.00

Facility

Current Rental Rates Per Mo.

Proposed Increase

Proposed Rate Per Month

2400 Stadium Road

$150.00

$10.00

$160.00

2404 Stadium Road

$ 75.00

$10.00

$ 85.00

Faulkner Property

Farm House

$120.00

$10.00

$130.00

Holly House

$110.00

$10.00

$120.00

Hedge House

$115.00

$10.00

$125.00

Snowden

Apt. 1

$100.00

$10.00

$110.00

Apt. 2

$100.00

$10.00

$110.00

Apt. 6

$ 75.00

$10.00

$ 85.00

Apt. 101

$190.00

$10.00

$200.00

Apt. 103

$140.00

$10.00

$150.00

Apt. 201

$100.00

$10.00

$110.00

Apt. 202

$100.00

$10.00

$110.00

Apt. 203

$140.00

$10.00

$150.00

Carr's Hill House (Leake)

$ 50.00

$15.00

$ 65.00

Monroe Hill House (Minor)

$ 75.00

$25.00

$100.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the rental charges for the following housing accommodations be and they are hereby increased as indicated, effective July 1, 1974: FacilityCurrent Rental Rates Per Mo.Proposed IncreaseProposed Rate Per MonthFaculty & StaffPiedmont Estates1 Bedroom$115.00$15.00$130.002 Bedroom$120.00$15.00$135.003 Bedroom (Houses)$120.00$20.00$140.00Townhouses3 Bedroom$195.000$195.00 FacilityCurrent Rental Rates Per Mo.Proposed IncreaseProposed Rate Per MonthFarm House (121 Mimosa)Apt. 1$ 90.00$15.00$105.00Apt. 2$110.00$15.00$125.00Apt. 3$ 85.00$15.00$100.00Apt. 4$100.00$15.00$115.00Sundry RentalsFaculty Apts.Apt. 11$110.00$15.00$125.00Apt. 12$110.00$10.00$120.00Apt. 14$105.00$10.00$115.00Apt. 15$100.00$10.00$110.00Apt. 21$ 60.00$10.00$ 70.00Apt. 22$ 60.00$15.00$ 75.00Apt. 23$ 60.00$10.00$ 70.00Apt. 24$ 60.00$10.00$ 70.00Apt. 25$ 70.00$15.00$ 85.00Apt. 26$ 70.00$10.00$ 80.00Apt. 27$ 70.00$10.00$ 80.00Apt. 28$ 65.00$10.00$ 75.00Apt. 31$ 75.00$10.00$ 85.00Apt. 32$ 70.00$10.00$ 80.00Apt. 33$ 80.00$15.00$ 95.00Apt. 34$ 85.00$10.00$ 95.00Apt. 35$ 80.00$10.00$ 90.00Apt. 36$ 80.00$10.00$ 90.00Monroe Lane1 Bedroom$100.00$10.00$110.002 Bedroom$140.00$10.00$150.00Efficiency$ 70.00$10.00$ 80.00Vysotsky Cottage$ 85.00$10.00$ 95.00South Cottage$ 85.00$10.00$ 95.00Upper Alden$110.00$10.00$120.00Lower Alden$100.00$10.00$110.00Lower Mews$ 75.00$10.00$ 85.00Upper Mews$ 68.00$10.00$ 78.00Morea$ 80.00$10.00$ 90.00McGuffey Cottage$ 65.00$10.00$ 75.00Farm House$ 30.00$10.00$ 40.00 FacilityCurrent Rental Rates Per Mo.Proposed IncreaseProposed Rate Per Month2400 Stadium Road$150.00$10.00$160.002404 Stadium Road$ 75.00$10.00$ 85.00Faulkner PropertyFarm House$120.00$10.00$130.00Holly House$110.00$10.00$120.00Hedge House$115.00$10.00$125.00SnowdenApt. 1$100.00$10.00$110.00Apt. 2$100.00$10.00$110.00Apt. 6$ 75.00$10.00$ 85.00Apt. 101$190.00$10.00$200.00Apt. 103$140.00$10.00$150.00Apt. 201$100.00$10.00$110.00Apt. 202$100.00$10.00$110.00Apt. 203$140.00$10.00$150.00Carr's Hill House (Leake)$ 50.00$15.00$ 65.00Monroe Hill House (Minor)$ 75.00$25.00$100.00

RENTAL INCREASES FOR STUDENT LIVING ACCOMMODATIONS
--------------------------------------------------

Facility

Current Rental Rates

Proposed Increase

Proposed Session Rate

Single Students

Alderman Road

Double

$380.00

$20.00

$400.00

McCormick Road

Double (Unrenovated)

$335.00

$20.00

$355.00

Double (Renovated)

$355.00

$20.00

$375.00

Single

$380.00

$20.00

$400.00

Monroe Hill

Double

$405.00

$20.00

$425.00

Lawns

Single (Small)

$360.00

$20.00

$380.00

Single (Large)

$405.00

$20.00

$425.00

Crackerbox

Double

$355.00

$20.00

$375.00

Ranges

Single

$400.00

$20.00

$420.00

Mary Munford & Gwathmey

Double

$380.00

$20.00

$400.00

Single

$425.00

$20.00

$445.00

Copeley III

$550.00

0

$550.00

Faulkner Property

Double

$400.00

$20.00

$420.00

Single

$450.00

$20.00

$470.00

Lambeth Field

$550.00

Nurses Dormitory

$550.00

Married Students

Per Month

Per Month

Copeley Hill I & II

1 Bedroom

$105.00

$10.00

$115.00

2 Bedroom

$120.00

$10.00

$130.00

3 Bedroom

$135.00

$10.00

$145.00

University Gardens

1 Bedroom

$100.00

$10.00

$110.00

2 Bedroom

$115.00

$10.00

$125.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that rental charges for the following student housing facilities be and they are hereby increased as indicated, effective September 1, 1974: FacilityCurrent Rental RatesProposed IncreaseProposed Session RateSingle StudentsAlderman RoadDouble$380.00$20.00$400.00McCormick RoadDouble (Unrenovated)$335.00$20.00$355.00Double (Renovated)$355.00$20.00$375.00Single$380.00$20.00$400.00Monroe HillDouble$405.00$20.00$425.00LawnsSingle (Small)$360.00$20.00$380.00Single (Large)$405.00$20.00$425.00CrackerboxDouble$355.00$20.00$375.00RangesSingle$400.00$20.00$420.00Mary Munford & GwathmeyDouble$380.00$20.00$400.00Single$425.00$20.00$445.00Copeley III$550.000$550.00Faulkner PropertyDouble$400.00$20.00$420.00Single$450.00$20.00$470.00Lambeth Field$550.00Nurses Dormitory$550.00Married StudentsPer MonthPer MonthCopeley Hill I & II1 Bedroom$105.00$10.00$115.002 Bedroom$120.00$10.00$130.003 Bedroom$135.00$10.00$145.00University Gardens1 Bedroom$100.00$10.00$110.002 Bedroom$115.00$10.00$125.00

AMENDMENT OF RESOLUTION OF JUNE 1, 1973 ESTABLISHING GUIDELINES FOR STUDENT ACTIVITIES FUND ALLOCATIONS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the guidelines for Student Activities Fund Allocations appearing at Minutes, June 1, 1973 at page 718, are amended by the deletion and addition as follows:

On page 718 under Subdivision (4) "curricularly-oriented publications;" delete the semicolon now appearing and add "and a weekly student news magazine" so that Subdivision (4) reads: "curricularly-oriented publications and a weekly student news magazine".

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT ON LEGISLATIVE MATTERS
----------------------------------------------

The President discussed the budget recommendations in Governor Holton's budget and warned the Board that the proposed budget represents a real stringency, and that the cumulative effects of the proposed budget cuts may be serious for the University of Virginia. The President briefly summarized the recently released Report of the General Assembly Commission on Higher Education.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT ON THE COMMONWEALTH CONFERENCE ON HIGHER EDUCATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the second Commonwealth Conference on Higher Education was held in Richmond on November 28, 1973. He expressed appreciation to members of the Board of Visitors who attended the conference. He commented on the excellent program at the conference and praised Governor Linwood Holton for his candid and inspirational address to the conference. Copies of the published proceedings of the conference are available from the Office of Public Affairs, Monroe Hill House.

REPORT ON THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
----------------------------------------

Mr. Neill H. Alford, Jr., reported that an opinion has been prepared by Attorney General Andrew Miller in response to questions about the Freedom of Information Act raised by President Thomas Graves, Jr., President of the College of William and Mary. Mr. Alford advised that as he interprets the opinion, the University of Virginia Board of Visitors is operating within the guidelines approved by Attorney General Miller.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President summarized the University's building program. He advised that the construction of the new Law School building is on schedule, though plagued with shortages of some building materials. It will be occupied on September 1, 1974. The Lambeth Field housing project and the dining hall project are both behind schedule.

INVITATION TO MEET AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------

Dr. Brownie E. Polly, Jr., speaking on behalf of Chancellor Joseph Smiddy of Clinch Valley College, advised that the College would like to be the host for a meeting at the College during the Spring of 1974. It was agreed that the Secretary will poll the Board to determine the preferences of the members. The Rector will name a special committee to meet at Clinch Valley College either on April 11, 1974, the College's Founders Day, or May 22, 1974, the day of Final Exercises at the College.

STATEMENT OF DR. J. HARTWELL HARRISON
-------------------------------------

Dr. J. Hartwell Harrison urged the Board to return to its earlier practice of regularly visiting schools and departments of the University and having discussions with the Deans, faculty, and students about their educational programs. The Rector responded that the Board will give careful consideration to Dr. Harrison's request.

On motion the meeting was adjourned at 3:45 p.m.

RCB:ls