 TEI to HTML

OFFICIAL MINUTES - TENTATIVE Subject to Approval of the Board of Visitors THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA October 8, 1977
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 11:00 a.m., on October 8, 1977, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector William L. Zimmer, III, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and Visitors William C. Battle, Robert P. Buford, Warren B. French, Jr., DuPont Guerry, III, Mrs. Linwood Holton, William E. Leggett, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., George C. Palmer, II, William S. Potter, Donald E. Santarelli, and Hugh Scott. Absent: C. Waller Barrett, William M. Dudley, Edwin K. Mattern, and Howard W. McCall, Jr. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, David A. Shannon, Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Avery Catlin, Ernest H. Ern, John J. Owen, and William H. Muller were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of June 4, 1977, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONSELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTYELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTIONS TO CHAIRS
-------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

CORRECTION IN THE PROMOTION OF DR. PETER I. LOBO
------------------------------------------------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

DEATH OF MR. JESSE W. BEAMS
---------------------------

DEATH OF MR. HERBERT J. STORING
-------------------------------

DEATH OF MISS PHYLLIS J. VERHONICK
----------------------------------

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the construction program. The largest project under way is the Primary Care Center building which is scheduled for completion in May of 1978.

APPROVAL OF CHANGE OF THE NAME OF THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$208,508.01

Free Service

$914,150.16

\---------------

Total

$1,122,658.17

REPORT ON LITIGATION
--------------------

The Legal Adviser, George G. Grattan, IV, presented an information report on litigation in which the University has an interest.

RESOLUTION ON TRANSFER OF THE BLUE RIDGE SANATORIUM
---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE CHANGE IN THE NAME OF THE DEPARTMENT OF RESEARCH METHODOLOGY AND THE ACADEMIC FUNCTIONS OF THE EVALUATION RESEARCH CENTER - SCHOOL OF EDUCATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the Department of Research Methodology and the academic functions of the Evaluation Research Center have been merged into a new unit known as the Department of Educational Research and Evaluation.

APPROVAL OF POLICIES RELATING TO THE SOLICITATION AND ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS AND BEQUESTSA. General Policies Pertaining to Restrictions in Uses of Gifts1. General Restrictions2. Restrictions Involving Student Financial AidB. General Policies Pertaining to Solicitation and Acceptance of Certain Types of Gifts1. Gifts of Tangible Property2. Gifts of Real Property3. Gifts of SecuritiesC. General Policies Pertaining to the Establishment of Funds for Certain Purposes1. Professorships2. Lectureships3. Scholarships4. Fellowships5. Prize Funds6. Book Funds7. Funds for Student Activities8. Funds for Buildings and GroundsD. General Policies Pertaining to Bequests1. Unrestricted Bequests2. Restricted Bequests3. Suggested Language for Specific Purposes(a) Professorships(b) Scholarships or Fellowships(c) Teaching, Research or Lectureships(d) Book FundsE. General Policies Pertaining to Deferred and Other Estate-Related Gifts
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Restrictions based on race, color, religion, creed, sex, or national origin are unacceptable in any gift to the University and should be unacceptable in any gift to a University-related foundation.

An offer of a gift of tangible property may be accepted initially and conditionally on behalf of the President and the Rector and Visitors by deans, directors of libraries and museums, and other authorized officers. The receipt and acceptance of such tangible gifts with estimated value of $250 or more shall be reported to the Vice President for Development for confirmation and formal acceptance by the Rector and Visitors.

Gifts of tangible personal property such as paintings or other works of art or furniture, or collections as such, should not be accepted if made on the condition or expectation that the items will be permanently exhibited, or that the collections will be maintained and shown as such. Any gift offered with such a restriction or condition shall be reported to the Vice President for Development and may be accepted only by vote of the Board of Visitors.

The handling of gifts of securities often has very specific tax consequences to the donor. All gifts of securities to the University must be handled by the Treasurer's Office. The Treasurer of the University will then notify the Office of University Development of all such gifts.

It is the policy of the Rector and Visitors to approve the establishment of funds for certain purposes upon the receipt of gifts or commitments which meet the prescribed requirements. Only the most popular types of funds and their funding requirements are described below. There are many other purposes for funds which offer a variety of gift opportunities. Each school or department may suggest special activities, programs, research, lectures, etc. which can be supported by varying amounts of funding.

Gifts for endowment are usually pooled for investment with the University's general endowment funds and the individual funds are credited with their pro rate share of the earnings at the annual rate as determined by the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors. A new endowment fund may be established by the University with a principal amount of not less than $5,000.

An endowment fund may be established, however, even though the principal amount may not have reached the required minimum, if the donor will undertake a binding obligation to supplement the income of the fund with annual gifts sufficient to provide a total income which is equal to at least 5 percent of the principal required for the establishment of the endowment fund. The donor must also agree to complete the endowment within a reasonable period of time.

A named endowed professorship may be established to supplement the available State support for an existing professorship in a school or a field of study. Such an endowment fund may be established with gifts to total $100,000 where such a fund is submitted for matching under the Eminent Scholars program or under an equivalent matching program. Gifts should total $200,000 if terms of the gift fail to qualify for matching or if matching funds are not available.

A named endowment fund to provide a lecture program (i.e., one which may be used for the honorarium and expenses of a special guest lecturer) may be established with a fund of not less than $10,000

A named endowed scholarship may be established with a fund of not less than $25,000 or a guarantee of annual support for one or more recipients totaling at least $1,200 but with no award being made which is less than $300 to a recipient.

A named endowed fellowship may be established with a fund of not less than $100,000 or a guarantee of annual support for one or more recipients totaling at least $5,000 but with no award being made which is less than $1,000 to a recipient.

A named financial award for outstanding accomplishment may be provided through the establishment of a prize fund with an endowment of not less than $5,000 to furnish awards of approximately $200 or more to one or more students each year.

The earnings from an endowed book fund may be used for the purchase of books or other materials in a particular field or library and also may be used as specified by the donor for other expenses of the library. Such a fund may be established with not less than $5,000.

Gifts and funds will be accepted for the support of recognized student activities only if such activities have the approval of the Vice President for Student Affairs.

Whenever a donor, in making a gift to the University for a building, wishes to have the building named for one whom he designates, it is the policy of the Rector and Visitors to require that at least fifty-one percent of the announced cost of the building be given by the donor. When gift opportunities are offered for parts of a building or for landscape features, a donor may name such designated portions of buildings and grounds by contributing the entire announced cost. There may be exceptions to this policy but in no case shall any agreement or understanding in this regard be reached without the Rector and Visitors first being advised.

Any bequest to the University of Virginia should be made to "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia public corporation, located at Charlottesville." This is the legal name of the corporate body.

An unrestricted bequest is of special value because of the freedom to use it wherever and however needed. An unrestricted bequest intended for the general purposes of the University, one which the Rector and Visitors are free to use to establish an endowment fund or to expend in whole or in part as they deem best, might read simply: "I hereby devise and bequeath to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia public corporation, located at Charlottesville (the sum of $. . . .) (all the rest, residue and remainder of my estate) (. . . . percent of my residuary estate)."

Depending upon the size of such a bequest it will, under present practices of the Rector and Visitors, be added to a general endowment fund if it is relatively small, or used to establish an endowment fund in the name of the testator or in whatever other name he or she may direct. If the bequest meets the stated minimum dollar requirements and the testator wishes to assure that the principal will be used to establish an endowment fund and remain as such permanently and not be expended, the will might read as follows: "I hereby devise and bequeath to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia public corporation, located at Charlottesville (the sum of $. . . .) (all the rest, residue, and remainder of my estate) (. . . . percent of my residuary estate) to establish the . . . . Fund, the earnings only to be used for the general purposes of the University as the Rector and Visitors may determine."

Many donors understandably have special interests which they may desire to promote or support. Bequests for these restricted purposes may be expressed as follows: "I hereby devise and bequeath to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia public corporation, located at Charlottesville (the sum of $. . . .) (all the rest, residue, and remainder of my estate) (. . . . percent of my residuary estate) for the benefit of the (College) (School) to be used for (the library) (for publications) (for research) (for scholarships)."

If the endowment fund is for a limited or restrictive purpose, it is advisable to provide an "escape" clause. Those who administer the University's affairs in the future should be left free to make use of the funds in the best interests of the University and the public under changed conditions. This can be accomplished by the statement: "If, in the opinion of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, all or part of the earnings of this fund cannot be usefully applied to the above purpose (or in the above manner), they may use the same for any purpose within the general corporate powers of the University" or, if it is desired to restrict the gift to a particular School or Department, ". . . . for any other purpose related to the College or School which in its opinion will most nearly accomplish my wishes and purposes."

It is recommended that specified purposes be described as broadly as possible, and that detailed limitations and restrictions be avoided. The Vice President for Development must be consulted before a detailed plan for a specified purpose is approved.

To establish a professorship at the University of Virginia, either by an inter vivos gift or through a bequest, the following statement is suggested: "I hereby (give), (devise and bequeath) to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia public corporation, located at Charlottesville (the sum of $ . . . .) (all the rest, residue and remainder of my estate) (. . . . percent of my residuary estate) to establish the . . . . Fund. This Fund shall be added to the University's Eminent Scholars Endowment Fund and the income therefrom shall be used to attract and retain eminent scholars in the field of . . . . . at the University through the establishment of the . . . . Professorship in the (College, School) of . . . . . Such income is to be matched by State appropriation when and if such funds are provided by the Commonwealth of Virginia for such purposes.

The following form will create by bequest a scholarship or fellowship fund which will be efficient to administer: "I hereby devise and bequeath to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia public corporation located at Charlottesville (the sum of $ . . . .) (all the rest, residue, and remainder of my estate) (. . . . percent of my residuary estate) to establish the . . . . Fund, the earnings only from which shall be used for (scholarship) (fellowship) to students in the University of Virginia (College of Arts and Sciences) or (other school within the University). Awards from this fund are to be designated (. . . . Scholarships) (. . . . Fellowships). The earnings of this fund may be used each year, or if not so used, may be used in a subsequent year or years, or added to the principal of the fund as the Rector and Visitors may determine."

Funds endowed for these purposes should be established with the provision of the "escape" clause suggested above so as to permit the use of the funds in a manner which will most nearly accomplish the wishes of the donor.

Funds may be given for teaching, for research or for lectureships in specific areas. While it may be desired to refer to the academic area of the teaching or lectureship, or to the subject matter or field of research, provision should be made to permit discretionary use in a different academic area, subject or field: "I hereby devise and bequeath to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia public corporation, located at Charlottesville (the sum of $. . . .) (all the rest, residue, and remainder of my estate) (. . . . of my residuary estate) to establish the . . . . (Fellowship) (Research Fund) (Lectureship). The earnings only from the fund may be used for the stipend and support of (a teaching fellow) (a research fellow) (for a research program in . . . .) (for the support of a member of the teaching staff with the rank of lecturer or a visiting professor in . . . .)."

Funds endowed for these purposes should be established with the provision of the "escape" clause suggested above so as to permit the use of the funds in a manner which will most nearly accomplish the wishes of the donor.

"I hereby devise and bequeath to The Rector and Visitors of the University, a Virginia public corporation, located at Charlottesville (the sum of . . . .) (all the rest, residue, and remainder of my estate) (. . . . percent of my residuary estate) to establish the . . . . Fund. The earnings only may be used to the purchase of books or other materials (in the field of . . . .) and for other purposes of the (University of Virginia Library) (the Law School Library, etc.)."

If the fund is restricted to a particular field it would be desirable to permit alternative use in other fields at the discretion of the Librarian.

The terms and conditions of gifts to create charitable remainder unitrusts, charitable remainder annuity trusts, charitable income ("lead") trusts, or charitable gift annuities, and the terms and conditions of gifts which are acceptable for a pooled income fund trust shall be submitted by the Vice President for Development to the Vice President for Business and Finance before the acceptance of such gifts by the University.

A pooled income fund gift or a charitable gift annuity provides the means whereby a donor, who cannot afford to make a large enough gift for a separately invested trust, can support the University and receive the benefits offered by a life income gift. The Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors has authorized the establishment of the University of Virginia Pooled Income Fund. A gift to this Fund will be commingled with the gifts of others as in a mutual fund, and will be managed by a Trustee. The gift may be unrestricted or designated for a purpose specified by the donor.

The income from a gift to the Pooled Income Fund will be paid quarterly to the first beneficiary, and may also be paid to a second beneficiary, for his or her lifetime. At the termination of the life income contract the share of the trust fund attributable to the donor's contribution is transferred to the University or to a University-related foundation.

INCREASE IN RENTAL FEE FOR POST OFFICE BOXES
--------------------------------------------

RENTAL RATES FOR HOUSING FACILITIES FOR THE SUMMER 1978
-------------------------------------------------------

FACILITY

CURRENT RATE

PROPOSED RATE SUMMER 1978

Alderman-Observatory

per student per week double occupancy

$15

$18

per student per week single occupancy

n/a

$24

Nurses Apartment Complex

per student per week double occupancy

$21

$22

per student per week single occupancy

n/a

$30

Monroe Hill Houses

per student per week double occupancy

n/a

$22

per student per week single occupancy

n/a

$30

SUMMER CONFERENCE RATES

Lambeth Field, Copeley III, and Nurses

per person per night double occupancy

$ 9

$9

per person per night single occupancy

$ 11

$11

Family rates per week two bedroom apts.

$70

$70

Family rates per week three bedroom apts.

$70

$84

Monroe Hill Houses

per person per night double occupancy

$ 7

$ 7

per person per night single occupancy

$10

$10

Alderman-Observatory Houses

per person per night double occupancy

$ 6

$ 6

per person per night single occupancy

$ 7

$ 8

McCormick Road Houses

per person per night double occupancy

$ 5

$ 5

per person per night single occupancy

$ 6

$ 7

Guest Facilities at McCormick Houses

per person for first night

$ 6

$ 6

per person per night thereafter

$ 4

$ 4

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

The President distributed reports of gifts covering the period May 19 - September 15, totalling $12,268,100.00, and for Sponsored Programs from May 1, 1977 - August 30, 1977, totaling $13,731,700.00. The Board, by unanimous consent, accepted these gifts and grants.

NAMING OF BUILDING AT #4 DAWSON'S ROW THE LUTHER P. JACKSON HOUSE
-----------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF PRATT FUNDS, SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
-------------------------------------------

NAMING OF THE HEALTH SCIENCES LIBRARY
-------------------------------------

AAU Salary Scale
----------------

The President reported on the 1976-1977 salary scales for the member institutions of the Association for American Universities.

REORGANIZATION OF CERTAIN DEPARTMENTS WITHIN THE SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT BY THE RECTOR REGARDING THE BURKETT MILLER CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the President has appointed a committee to recommend a director of the Miller Center to succeed Mr. Frederick Nolting, who retires as director June 30, 1978.

In addition, the Rector reported that the By-Laws for the Miller Center which describe the plan of operation for the Center, was adopted by the Council of the Center on March 25, 1977. A copy of such By-Laws was certified to the Rector by the Secretary of the Council in accordance with a requirement of the By-Laws. These By-Laws are now in effect and constitute a formal plan for the operation of the Center.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE MEETING OF THE COUNCIL OF VISITORS ON SEPTEMBER 26, 1977
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector made a report on the September 26th meeting of the Council of Visitors. He advised that a discussion of the forthcoming bond referendum was included in the agenda. Visitors Palmer and Dudley attended the meeting in addition to Rector William L. Zimmer.

REPORT FROM THE EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEE ON THE STATE COUNCIL OF HIGHER EDUCATION REPORT ON FACULTY TENURE AND ACTIVITYREPORT OF THE EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEE ON THE STATE COUNCIL OF HIGHER EDUCATION FOR VIRGINIA REPORT ON FACULTY TENURE AND ACTIVITY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On behalf of Mr. C. Waller Barrett, Chairman of the Educational Policy Committee, who was unavoidably absent, the President distributed a report of the Educational Policy Committee which was prepared as directed by the Board in its resolution of April 2, 1977. The resolution directed the Educational Policy Committee to review the recommendations of the State Council of Higher Education in its report "Faculty Tenure and Activity in Virginia" and to report back to the Board at the October 1977 meeting.

The report is as follows:

The Educational Policy Committee has carefully reviewed the Faculty Tenure and Activity report. A preliminary study of the report was undertaken at the Educational Policy Committee's October 13, 1976 meeting and on September 14, 1977 the Committee held a special meeting for the purpose of reviewing the report.

The report urged boards of visitors to ensure that careful planning and management of personnel systems are given high priority by institutional administrators and that the boards and administrators should at all times be alert to faculty staffing plans.

At the University of Virginia the administration reviews the faculty staffing plan annually in conjunction with the preparation of the budget for each succeeding year. For the past several years, the Provost has reported annually to the Board of Visitors on the tenured percentage for each individual school at the University. Committee and Board minutes show seven reports by the Provost on faculty staffing and on policies and procedures related thereto since May of 1974. A large portion of the docket of each Board meeting is taken up by faculty personnel matters. There is little doubt that these matters receive a high priority by the Board.

Further recommendations were then discussed:

To assist boards of visitors in this regard (i.e., the problem of increasing tenure percentage), Council's report identifies some possible modifications of tenure systems. Boards of visitors were urged to consider these.

First, as reported at the June, 1977 meeting, the tenure percentage at the University is at a comfortably low level of 60 percent. However, recognizing the implications of the steady state enrollment projected beyond 1980, President Shannon in 1973, following Provost Shannon's recommendation, appointed a special faculty committee, under the chairmanship of Professor William L. Duren, to study the issue and report to him. This report, which was received after Mr. Hereford had taken office, analyzed the problem, concluded that the current tenure percentage was satisfactory, and proposed a lowering of the mandatory retirement age to sixty-five to insure an effective turnover of faculty in the future. With this in mind, the following comments were considered in response to the specific suggestions contained in the main text of the State Council of Higher Education report (they are cited by reference in its Conclusions and Suggestions).

It is suggested that all institutions ensure that policies and procedures governing faculty personnel decisions are developed by faculties, administrators, and boards of visitors, and have these policies and procedures published. Final authority for these policies and procedures rests with the boards of visitors.

The Educational Policy Committee has reviewed a document prepared by the Vice President and Provost called "Appointment, Reappointment, and Appointment Without Term", and has reviewed more detailed statements of procedures followed in each of the schools. This included sample records, letters of recommendations and other kinds of information normally considered for each faculty member when promotion to tenure is contemplated.

The Committee gave special consideration to the seven suggestions listed on pages 160 and 161 of the State Council of Higher Education report. Lists of procedures have been sent to each member of the Board, and they are presently incorporated into institutional policies. These are available to faculty members.

The Committee discussed procedures for dismissal actions during a term of appointment. These are a part of the AAUP 1940 statement which the administration has followed. As far as the University at Charlottesville is concerned, there has been no occasion for such a dismissal during the past 20 years, but there was such occasion at the Eastern Shore Branch before it was separated from the University and became part of the Community College System.

Internal provision for "due process" includes possible appeal to the Faculty Senate's Committee on Faculty Relations. These provisions were sanctioned by the Board of Visitors in 1972 and again after amendment in 1973.

At the University, faculty members are regularly notified of the review process. The Board of Visitors notifies faculty members of reappointment decisions by letter. Final authority for tenure decisions rests with the Board of Visitors with detailed administration of the tenure system delegated to the University.

With respect to the privileges and responsibilities of tenure, the Committee and the President expressed reluctance to issue any formal statement about these to faculty members. Since the University is so very selective in determining which faculty members will be tenured, it follows that only very responsible persons are likely to receive tenured appointments. The President observed that the need to advise faculty members of improper actions has arisen in remarkably few cases. He said that about once or twice a year it has been necessary for the President to advise against the use of official University stationery in expressing personal opinion about controversial issues, but generally tenured faculty members here are very responsible.

The Committee observed that all faculty members, whether tenured or not, are evaluated annually in the preparation of departmental annual reports, and that these evaluations are used in making salary determinations each year.

Policies and procedures dealing with academic due process are carefully and regularly reviewed with the advice of the legal adviser who represents the Attorney General of the Commonwealth.

In the preface of the State Council of Higher Education report, the opinion was expressed that boards of visitors should meet more frequently. The University of Virginia Board of Visitors has examined this question carefully. It has been determined that four meetings, each extending over two days, are more effective than eight one-day meetings. In addition to the four regular Board meetings, there are two Finance Committee meetings each odd year and one each even year for consideration of our annual operating budgets and biennial budget requests. Also, the Buildings and Grounds Committee holds an extra meeting about once a year, when the need for approval of plans for a capital outlay project cannot be delayed until the next regular meeting. On an ad hoc basis special committees have met just about every year on such matters as communication between the Board and the student body and revision of the Manual. In addition, nearly all members of the Board attend special events at the University. These include alumni events, convocations, graduating exercises, the student-faculty-administrator retreat and others. The time devoted to University affairs by members of the Board is already extensive and it is believed to be adequate.

The Committee concluded its review of the report by noting that at the present time the procedures are effective and adequate, but is recognizes that in the future, changes will be needed, and that there will be a continuing review of its policies and procedures relating to tenure and faculty staffing.

The Committee recommends the continuation of policies making tenure and associated matters a primary consideration for the Board of Visitors. Annually at the June meeting the practice of having a report to the Educational Policy Committee on tenure percentages by schools should be continued. Also, at this meeting any changes in policies related to elections, reelections, elections without term and similar matters should be brought to the Board. Copies of the current statements of these policies will be available to any member of the Board who might request them.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERS - CONTINUEDRE-ELECTIONS
-----------------------------------------------------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERS - CONTINUEDAPPOINTMENTS
-----------------------------------------------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERAPPOINTMENT
--------------------------------------------------

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSELECTION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PROMOTION
---------

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 12:18 p.m.

RCB:jb