 TEI to HTML

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA March 31, 1979
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:30 a.m., on March 31, 1979, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector William L. Zimmer, III, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and Visitors William C. Battle, Robert P. Buford, William M. Dudley, Warren B. French, Jr., DuPont Guerry, III, Mrs. Linwood Holton, William E. Leggett, Stephen C. Mahan, Howard W. McCall, Jr., George C. Palmer, II, Frank S. Royal, D. French Slaughter, Jr., Glenn B. Updike, Jr., and E. Massie Valentine. Absent: Robert V. Hatcher, Jr. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, David A. Shannon, Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Avery Catlin, John J. Owen, Ernest H. Ern, and William H. Muller were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of January 27, 1979, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

EXPRESSION OF APPRECIATION TO RETIRING VISITORS
-----------------------------------------------

The Rector expressed his appreciation for the services of Messrs. C. Waller Barrett, William S. Potter and Hugh Scott who served the University with great distinction during their terms of service on the Board.

WELCOMING OF NEW BOARD MEMBERS
------------------------------

Rector William L. Zimmer, III, welcomed Mr. E. Massie Valentine and Dr. Glenn B. Updike, Jr., whose appointments to the Board of Visitors were announced by Governor Dalton on February 7, 1979. He explained that Mr. Robert V. Hatcher, also a new Member, was unavoidably absent from the meeting.

ELECTION TO FILL VACANCY ON THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
---------------------------------------------------

Mr. D. French Slaughter, Jr., was unanimously elected to fill the unexpired term of Mr. C. Waller Barrett on the Executive Committee as prescribed in Section 3.1 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1975. The Executive Committee consists of the following: Rector William L. Zimmer, III, Robert P. Buford, Warren B. French, Jr., William E. Leggett, and D. French Slaughter, Jr.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESFinance CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeHealth Affairs CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTIONS
---------

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

CANCELLATION OF ELECTION OF MISS JULIA F. DAVIS
-----------------------------------------------

ACTION RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDER
------------------------------

RETIREMENTS OF CHAIRHOLDERS
---------------------------

RESIGNATION OF CHAIRHOLDER
--------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

RETIREMENTS
-----------

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

CHANGE IN EFFECTIVE DATE OF APPOINTMENT OF MR. SIDNEY M. HECHT
--------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the effective date of the appointment of Mr. Sidney M. Hecht as a member of the Center for Advanced Studies as approved by the Board on June 2, 1978, be changed from September 1, 1978, to June 1, 1979.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

DEATH OF DR. WALTER BUCKNER
---------------------------

DEATH OF MR. GUY ESTES
----------------------

DEATH OF DR. PETER BROWNING HOFFMAN
-----------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. JOSEPH B. TAVORMINA
--------------------------------

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

Mr. Avery Catlin, Executive Vice-President, distributed a report on the status of construction projects. He noted that the Student Recreation Building is now open for use, and that the project is essentially complete. Law School (Phase II) has been accepted subject to "punch list" corrections. The Primary Care Center is now also undergoing "punch list" corrections, and some space is now occupied in that facility.

REPORT ON LEGISLATIVE MATTERS
-----------------------------

Mr. Hereford summarized the actions of the 1979 General Assembly actions that affect the University. He expressed satisfaction with the actions which will affect graduate teaching assistants, and improve the University's competitive position in recruitment of them. Prior to the enactment of this new legislation, graduate teaching assistants were required by law to pay the full out-of-State tuition charge unless they are State residents.

There was also some discussion of the amended Freedom of Information Act.

REPORT ON LITIGATION
--------------------

The Legal Adviser, George G. Grattan, IV, presented an information report on litigation in which the University has an interest.

REPORT ON THE 1980-1982 BIENNIAL BUDGET
---------------------------------------

Mr. Ray Hunt advised that the State will provide the guidelines for preparing the Biennial Budget on April 15, and that the preparation of the Budget can begin then.

SCHEDULE OF BOARD MEETINGS FOR 1980
-----------------------------------

SPECIAL CONTRIBUTION TO THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
----------------------------------------------

NAMING OF THE NEW ADDITION TO THE LAW SCHOOL (PHASE II)
-------------------------------------------------------

NAMING OF THE COURTYARD BETWEEN PHASE I AND PHASE II OF THE LAW SCHOOL
----------------------------------------------------------------------

NAMING OF THE AUDITORIUM IN THE LAW SCHOOL (PHASE II)
-----------------------------------------------------

REPORT ON SETTLEMENT OF HEW COMPLAINT
-------------------------------------

The President reported that the Office of Civil Rights of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, after careful investigation of a race discrimination complaint by Mr. Kendrix Easley against the University, determined that the complaint was without merit.

REPORT ON THE FINAL APPROVAL BY HEW OF THE COMMONWEALTH'S EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PLAN
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President advised the Board that the Virginia Plan for Equal Opportunity in State Supported Institutions of Higher Education has been unconditionally accepted by the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad Debts

$ 551,031.20

Free Service to Counties and Cities

510,422.25

\--------------

Total

$1,061,453.45

ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
-----------------------------------------

The Board accepted gifts totaling $702,000 and sponsored programs totaling $4,196,300.00, for the period January 1, 1979, through February 28, 1979. This brings the total thus far in the fiscal year which began July 1, 1978, to $3,568,200 for gifts and $27,464,400 for sponsored programs.

REQUEST BY STUDENT COUNCIL FOR FEE FOR WEEKEND BUS SERVICE
----------------------------------------------------------

A document requesting an additional $5 fee for weekend bus service dated March 30, 1979, from the Student Council was brought by the Council officers to the meeting of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee. This request was received too late for analysis by the University's financial officers prior to the meeting of the Board. Consequently the proposal will be studied and a cost analysis will be prepared, and the proposal will be brought to the Board at the June 1979 meeting.

PROPOSED ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES
------------------------------------

1978-79

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 1979-80

Pledged for amortization of bond issue for University Hall

$ 15.00

$ -

\-

$ 15.00

Pledged for amortization of bond issue for library structure

2.00

\-

\-

2.00

University Transit

22.00

\-

\-

22.00

Pledged to support capital outlay for student commons areas

25.00

\-

\-

25.00

Faculty TIAA

105.00

\-

\-

105.00

Athletics

30.00

20.00

66.7%

50.00

Student Health

80.00

5.00

6.3%

85.00

University Union

14.00

5.00

35.7%

19.00

University Union Programs

5.00

\-

\-

5.00

Class Affiliation

4.00

\-

\-

4.00

Pledged for amortization of Recreational Facilities

10.00

\-

\-

10.00

TOTAL

$312.00

$ 30.00

9.6%

$342.00

INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES
-------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

1978-79

Amount of Increase

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1979-80

1978-79

Amount of Increase

Percent of Inc.

Propos 1979-8

Tuition and Required Fees

Undergraduate Schools

Arch., Engineering

887

60

6.8%

947

2,012

130

6.5%

2,142

A&S, Commerce, Educ., and Nursing

837

60

7.2%

897

2,012

130

6.5%

2,142

Medical Technology

\* \*Previously approved by The Board of Visitors on April 1, 1978. 200

100

50.0%

300

200

100

50.0%

300

Professional Schools

Graduate Bus.-MBA

1,472

60

4.1%

1,532

3,172

130

4.1%

3,302

Law - JD

1,122

60

5.3%

1,182

2,672

130

4.9%

2,802

Medicine - MD

\*\* \*\*Previously approved rates apply to all medical school students in 1979-80. 2,712

30

1.1%

2,742

5,712

30

0.5%

5,742

Graduate Schools

Full Time

897

60

6.7%

957

2,012

130

6.5%

2,142

Other Charges

Student Act. Fee

12

0

\-

12

12

0

\-

12

Arch.- Act. Fee

5

0

\-

5

5

0

\-

5

Commerce-Act. Fee

5

0

\-

5

5

0

\-

5

Commerce-Computer & Publication Fee

\-

45

(New)

45

\-

45

(New)

45

Education-Act. Fee

2

0

\-

2

2

0

\-

2

Engineering-Act. Fee

4

0

\-

4

4

0

\-

4

Grad. Bus.-Comp. Fee

50

0

\-

50

50

0

\-

50

Law School-Act. Fee

12

0

\-

12

12

0

\-

12

Law School - "Barrister" Fee

5

0

\-

5

5

0

\-

5

Medicine-Microscope Fee

40

0

\-

40

40

0

\-

40

Nursing-Student Fee

70

0

\-

70

70

0

\-

70

Previously approved by The Board of Visitors on April 1, 1978.

Previously approved rates apply to all medical school students in 1979-80.

INCREASE IN FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR THE UNIVERSITY
---------------------------------------------------

1978-79 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis unless otherwise indicated.

1979-80 Proposed

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Maximum Compensation (1)

Normal Increment

Amount

Interval

General Faculty

Professor

$19,500

$20,800

\-

(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

16,000

17,000

\-

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

13,000

13,800

\-

(2)

1 year

Instructor

9,200

9,800

\-

(2)

1 year

Pre-Clinical Faculty (3) (3)Amounts in this category are stated on an annual (12-month) basis.

Department Head

$26,000

$27,500

\-

(2)

1 year

Professor

22,500

24,000

\-

(2)

1 year

Associate Professor

19,000

20,000

\-

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

15,000

16,000

\-

(2)

1 year

Instructor

12,000

12,500

\-

(2)

1 year

Junior Staff (3)

Research Assistant A

$ 9,600

$10,032

$13,728

(4) (4)The normal increments are consistent with the standard salary steps used in the State Classified System.

1 year

Research Assistant B

13,128

13,728

18,700

(4)

1 year

Research Associate

13,728

14,328

19,600

(4)

1 year

Senior Astronomy & Physics

13,728

14,328

20,500

(4)

1 year

Research Assistant

Research Statistician A

8,040

8,400

12,000

(4)

1 year

Research Statistician B

10,032

10,512

15,000

(4)

1 year

Research Statistician C

12,528

13,128

18,700

(4)

1 year

Sponsored Programs (3)

Research Assistant

$ 9,000

$ 9,500

$17,000

$ 500

1 year

Research Associate

10,500

11,000

20,500

500

1 year

Research Scientist/Engineer A (5) (5)Positions applicable to Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences (RLES) only.

12,500

13,000

18,000

500

1 year

Research Scientist/Engineer B (5)

15,800

16,500

22,100

700

1 year

Research Scientist/Engineer C (5)

16,200

17,000

25,000

800

1 year

Senior Scientist/Engineer A (5)

14,800

15,200

24,000

400

1 year

Senior Scientist/Engineer A-1 (5)

12,000

12,500

19,000

500

1 year

Research Director A (5)

17,400

18,200

29,400

800

1 year

Senior Scientist/Engineer B (5)

17,400

18,200

27,000

800

1 year

Research Director B (5)

24,000

25,000

36,000

1,000

1 year

Principal Scientist/Engineer (5)

22,500

23,500

35,500

1,000

1 year

Senior Scientist/Engineer C (5)

21,000

22,000

33,000

1,000

1 year

Amounts are stated on a session basis unless otherwise indicated.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

Amounts in this category are stated on an annual (12-month) basis.

The normal increments are consistent with the standard salary steps used in the State Classified System.

Positions applicable to Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences (RLES) only.

(Increase in Faculty Salary Scale for the University - continued)

SCHOOL OF COMMERCE FEE
----------------------

REPORT OF AD HOC COMMITTEE TO HEAR CAVALIER DAILY APPEAL
--------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Stephen C. Mahan, Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee to Hear The Cavalier Daily Appeal, reported that his Committee met on March 5, 1979, and at that meeting conducted a Hearing on the Appeal made byThe Cavalier Daily from the decision of the President to uphold the decision of the Student Activities Committee to deny funding to The Cavalier Daily if salary payments are made to Cavalier Daily staff members. The Committee recommended that the Board of Visitors deny the appeal.

ACTION ON THE CAVALIER DAILY APPEAL
-----------------------------------

COMPLAINT OF THE MEDIA BOARD AGAINST THE CAVALIER DAILY
-------------------------------------------------------

The President outlined a complaint brought to the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee by the Media Board.

Under its statutory authority the Board of Visitors set forth guidelines, by resolutions dated March 26, 1976 and amended January 22, 1977, which established the Media Board of Directors, and delegated to that Board authority and responsibility for supervision of all student operated publications and electronic media at the University.

The guidelines adopted by the Board of Visitors explicitly include The Cavalier Daily among the student media organizations under the Media Board's jurisdiction. Before the establishment of the Media Board, The Cavalier Daily was subject to the jurisdiction of the Board of Directors of The Cavalier Daily created by the Board of Visitors in June, 1958. The student Vice Presidents of the several schools of the University were designated by the Board of Visitors to serve as the apolitical Directors of The Cavalier Daily in addition to their responsibilities with the Honor Committee. In the ensuing years the Vice Presidents' participation in the day-to-day functioning of the Honor Committee increased to the extent that The Cavalier Daily contended that an unresolvable conflict of interest existed. In 1976, a student-faculty committee chaired by Mr. William A. Elwood, Associate Professor of English, made a comprehensive study of this problem and the subject of student media in general and recommended that the Board of Visitors establish a Media Board of Directors to which all student media would be accountable. The Cavalier Daily has stated, however, in a March 26, 1979, letter to President Hereford that it "does not recognize the authority of the Media Board" and has refused to abide by the resolutions of the Board of Visitors applicable to student media organizations.

Having reviewed the previous resolutions of the Board of Visitors of March 26, 1976 and January 22, 1977 establishing the authority of the Media Board for The Cavalier Daily and being convinced that such resolutions are lawful and, in particular are consistent with the First Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, and that The Cavalier Daily has refused to comply with the requirements of such resolutions, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be, and he hereby is, directed to confer with the new Managing Board of The Cavalier Daily to determine whether that Board will refuse to abide by the resolutions of the Board of Visitors establishing the Media Board. If the Managing Board refuses, the President is directed to take appropriate steps to withdraw the University's support of the newspaper, including the withdrawal of permission to use University space and to use University furniture and equipment, and the revocation of The Cavalier Daily's position as a University Affiliated Organization.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors reaffirms the authority of the Media Board set forth in its resolutions of March 26, 1976 and January 22, 1977, has considered the complaint received from the Media Board regarding The Cavalier Daily's actions with respect to Mr. John Davies, and defers action on the complaint pending resolution of the broader issue of whether the newly-elected Managing Board of The Cavalier Daily will recognize the authority of the Media Board.

AUTHORIZATION FOR TRANSFER OF CONTRIBUTIONS
-------------------------------------------

In order to encourage donors to contribute private funds for the benefit of the University through matching gift plans and the University of Virginia Pooled Income Fund, and in order to facilitate the administration of such contributions in accordance with the expressed wishes of donors, the Finance Committee, upon recommendation of the President, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Vice President for Business and Finance of the University be and he is hereby authorized to transfer contributions received by the University through matching gift plans and income interests or remainder interests in the University of Virginia Pooled Income Fund, and the proceeds or other property resulting from such contributions, to a tax-exempt University-related foundation, whenever it is determined that the donor specified in writing that he preferred to have his contribution ultimately held, invested, managed and expended for the use and benefit of the University by such foundation in accordance with the terms of the gift and the charter of that foundation.

APPROVAL OF VEPCO EASEMENT
--------------------------

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSPROMOTIONSPROPOSED INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEINCREASE IN FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginians

Non-Virginians

1978-79

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 79-80

1978-79

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 79-80

Tuition & Required Fees

Full-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate

630.00

50.00

7.9%

680.00

880.00

100.00

11.4%

980.00

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below.

Part-time Students (less than 12 semester hours per semester) Rate per semester hour

23.00

2.00

8.7%

25.00

33.00

4.50

13.6%

37.50

Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour

23.00

2.00

8.7%

25.00

33.00

4.50

13.6%

37.50

Non-Credit Courses-Rate per CEU

15.00

2.00

13.3%

17.00

22.00

3.00

13.6%

25.00

Dormitory Rent

448.00

16.00

3.6%

464.00

448.00

16.00

3.6%

464.00

1978-79 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis.

Proposed 1979-80

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Normal Increment

Rank

Amount

Interval

Professor

$15,000

$16,000

(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

13,000

13,800

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

11,000

11,600

(2)

1 year

Instructor

9,000

9,600

(2)

1 year

Amounts are stated on a session basis.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSELECTION
------------------------------------------------

INCREASE IN FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

1978-79 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis.

Proposed 1979-80

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Normal Increment

Rank

Amount

Interval

Professor

$15,000

$16,000

(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

13,000

13,800

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

11,000

11,600

(2)

1 year

Instructor

8,800

9,400

(2)

1 year

Amounts are stated on a session basis.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

INCREASE IN TUITION FOR THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION
------------------------------------------------------------

Current 1978-79

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1979-80

Continuing Education Credit Courses - Undergraduate Per Semester Hour

$ 29.50

$ 1.50

5.1%

$ 31.00

Continuing Education Credit Courses - Graduate Per Semester Hour

31.50

1.50

4.8%

33.00

Graduate Courses as Part of Off-Campus Degree Programs Per Semester Hour

45.00

5.00

11.1%

50.00

Special Students Registering through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds Courses

1-3 Credit Hours Per Semester

82.50

1.50

1.8%

84.00

4-8 Credit Hours Per Semester

160.00

\-

\-

160.00

Admission Fee in Certificate and Special Programs

10.00

\-

\-

10.00

Registration Fee - Northern Virginia Only

5.00

\-

\-

5.00

Change of Status Fee

5.00

\-

\-

5.00

Transcript Fee

2.00

\-

\-

2.00

Late Exam Fee

5.00

\-

\-

5.00

TIAA Fee for Students Registered in Off-Campus Degree Programs Per Registration

10.00

\-

\-

10.00

Other Miscellaneous Fees as Established to Recover Expenses such as Laboratory, Materials, etc., on a Basis of Estimated Cost

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 12:45 p.m.

RCB:jb