 TEI to HTML

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA October 10, 1981
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:30 p.m., in Open Session on October 8, 1981, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector D. French Slaughter, Jr., President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., William M. Dudley, DuPont Guerry, III, Mrs. Linwood Holton, Stephen C. Mahan, David N. Montague, George C. Palmer, II, Ferman W. Perry, Fred G. Pollard, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., and E. Massie Valentine. Absent: C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., Howard W. McCall, Jr., Frank S. Royal and Carl W. Smith. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., William H. Muller, Ernest H. Ern, Edwin E. Floyd, and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia reconvened in Open Session on October 10, 1981, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector D. French Slaughter, Jr., President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and William M. Dudley, DuPont Guerry, III, Mrs. Linwood Holton, Stephen C. Mahan, Howard W. McCall, Jr., David N. Montague, George C. Palmer, II, Ferman W. Perry, Fred G. Pollard, Carl W. Smith, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., and E. Massie Valentine. Absent were C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., and Frank S. Royal. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Avery Catlin, William H. Muller, Marion B. Peavey, Ernest H. Ern, Edwin E. Floyd, and George G. Grattan, IV, were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of June 5, 1981, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

The following motions were unanimously adopted by vote of all Visitors present:

(a) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the discussion of legal matters and for discussion of the evaluation of schools or departments.

(b) That the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss the investment of public funds where competition or bargaining is involved.

(c) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the discussion of gifts, bequests and fund raising activities, for the discussion of the investment of publicly held funds where competition and bargaining is involved, and for the discussion of the disposition of publicly held property.

(d) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the consideration of personnel matters involving assignment, promotion, salaries, and resignation of public employees and for the evaluation of University departments or schools.

(e) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the discussion and evaluation of University schools and departments.

Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Opening Session continued at 11:35 a.m.

RESCINDING THE RESOLUTION ESTABLISHING THE OFFICE OF UNIVERSITY CHANCELLOR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the action of the Board on October 4, 1980 establishing the Office of University Chancellor under the President of the University be and it is hereby rescinded.

ELECTION OF MR. RAY C. HUNT, JR., VICE-PRESIDENT FOR BUSINESS AND FINANCE, AS CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Vice-President for Business and Finance, be and he is hereby elected Chief Operating Officer of the University of Virginia to serve at the pleasure of the Board, effective October 1, 1981.

STATEMENT BY THE RECTOR
-----------------------

The University of Virginia recently engaged Cambridge Associates, Inc., to carry out a study and make recommendations regarding the administrative structure of the University at the Vice-Presidential level and above.

Several considerations prompted this study. A year ago the Board of Visitors established a Chancellorship for the purpose of relieving the President of certain internal management details in order that he devote a greater portion of his time to fund raising. However, the Board's efforts to identify a person for this position and elect a Chancellor during the past academic year were not successful. Also, last spring a faculty task force recommended certain changes in the Vice-Presidencies, and the Executive Planning Group established by the President last spring recommended that the entire administrative structure be studied. Finally, the last such study was carried out in 1967, when the student body and faculty were only one-half as large as they are today.

The President has received and distributed to the Board of Visitors a preliminary report from Cambridge Associates containing convincing arguments concerning the Chancellorship. Specifically, it is recommended that efforts to elect a Chancellor be terminated, and that the Vice-President for Business and Finance be designated Chief Operating Officer on an interim basis. The intent is that he would serve in this capacity during that period in the years ahead when the Board expects the President to devote a major portion of his time to University development.

Accordingly, the President has recommended and the Board has approved the election of Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., as Vice-President for Business and Finance and Chief Operating Officer for a term beginning October 1, 1981. The position of Chancellor has been disestablished effective October 1, 1981.

As Chief Operating Officer he will have the authority to (a) set priorities for the initiation, discussion, and resolution of internal University issues; (b) execute day-to-day decisions which bear upon the internal operations of the University as distinct from its external relations; and (c) resolve any issues which are not of such importance that presidential involvement is required. He would, of course, report directly to the President, and therefore, reflect the President's priorities on any matters which may arise.

Cambridge Associates is continuing the study of the University's Plan of Organization with regard to the possible reassignment of a number of offices among the Vice-Presidents and with regard to the need for a more comprehensive and integrated management and planning process.

SELECTION OF JONES AND STRANGE-BOSTON AS ARCHITECTS FOR THE HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY PROJECT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the firm of Jones and Strange-Boston of Richmond, Virginia, be and it is hereby approved as the architects for the Hazardous Materials Handling Facilities Project.

MODIFICATION OF FACULTY MORTGAGE LOAN REGULATIONS
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the regulations governing the Faculty Home Mortgage Loan Program be amended effective October 10, 1981 as follows:(a) At present money rates, no loan will be made at less than 13%.(b) A service charge due and payable at the time of the closing of the loan shall be 1/2 of 1% of the principal amount of the loan.(c) Loans shall be limited to one per faculty member during the period of employment.(d) The outstanding principal balance of mortgage loans shall not exceed an aggregate amount of $32,000,000.The University will maintain a waiting list for mortgage loans at such time as the principal amount of mortgage loans outstanding reaches the $32,000,000 limit.(e) There shall be an appraisal fee of $100 each for residential properties.(f) The program regulations will be reviewed by the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors on an annual basis or more frequently if necessary.

INCREASE IN FUNDING REQUIRED FOR ESTABLISHING PROFESSORSHIPS
------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the level of funding required for establishing a professorship (exclusive of matching funds) be and it is hereby increased to $200,000, effective July 1, 1982.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. George F. Alheid as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Wayne M. Alves as Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for the period June 1, 1981 through November 30, 1981.Mr. Anthony M. Ames as Visiting Associate Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert M. Anderson as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. William H. Anderson, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. William G. Anlyan, Jr. as Lecturer, General Faculty, The Darden School, for one year, effective June 1, 1981.Mr. James A. Aune as Assistant Professor of Speech Communication, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Bruce G. Bateman as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Robert D. Batey as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Richard S. Benner as Acting Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. David S. Birdsell as Lecturer in Speech Communication, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Mario A. Blanco as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Elsa B. Brown as Lecturer in History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Harold H. Bruff as Visiting Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Guillermo Cabrera Infante as Visiting Professor of Spanish, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Dr. James P. Caldwell as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mrs. Marie L. Callahan as Instructor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Terry Calvani as Visiting Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. James A. Canfield as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Paul P. Craig as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. Carl E. Creutz as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective August 1, 1981.Mr. Jack W. Davidson as Acting Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for one academic year, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. Aubrey L. Diamond as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Dr. P. Laurence Doeblin as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Leigh G. Donowitz as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mrs. Nancy S. Ehrenreich as Lecturer in Law, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Thomas H. Eldridge as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for two years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Robert Fatton, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Thomas J. Fields as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Renee E. Fleming as Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 20, 1981.Mr. Jerome T. Fosselman as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective October 16, 1981.Mr. Anthony Frankfurter as Research Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mrs. Lydia Gasman as Assistant Professor of Modern Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Robert S. Gibson as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mrs. Marion G. Gillis-Olion as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Lawrence O. Goedde as Acting Assistant Professor of Art History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Spencer J. Golub as Assistant Professor of Drama, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Roy E. Graham as Associate Professor of Architectural History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Richard T. Gray as Assistant Professor of German, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. John F. Harlan as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Carl M. Harris as Visiting Professor of Engineering Science and Systems, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert B. Hitchner as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. James M. Hogan as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech Communication, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. David M. Holt as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Peter B. Huber as Visiting Associate Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Claire P. Hume as Lecturer in Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Susan O. Ianna as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Ali Iranmanesh as Assistant Professor of Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. William E. Jackson as Associate Professor of German, for five years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Ervin L. Jordan, Jr. as Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period September 16, 1981 through June 30, 1982.Mr. Clinton W. Kersey, Jr. as Lecturer in Commerce, for an academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Andrew F. Kirby as Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Janet R. Kirby as Instructor, Alderman Library, General Faculty, for the period August 16, 1981 through June 30, 1982.Mr. Peter T. Kleeman as Assistant Professor of Engineering Science and Systems, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. John C. Knight as Associate Professor of Computer Science, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Marianne M. Kosiewicz as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Jacquelin Lichtman as Associate Professor, General Faculty, Law Library, for three years, effective August 16, 1981.Ms. Delois Lindsay-Newton as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1981.Mr. Charles D. Little, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective August 1, 1981.Mrs. Brenda H. Loyd as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Thomas K. Marshall as Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mrs. Marita P. McClymonds as Assistant Professor of Music, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Glenn E. Miller as Acting Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Richard L. Needham as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Douglas L. Nelson as Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Miss Mary D. Neufeld as Assistant Professor of Drama, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Steven A. Newman as Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. William A. O'Brien as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Ranajit Pal as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Robert L. Parks as Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Roderic A. Parnell as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Thomas L. Pearce as Associate Professor, General Faculty, and Lecturer in Biology, for five years, effective August 17, 1981.Sir Rudolf E. Peierls, FRS as Visiting Professor of Physics, for the period October 16, 1981 through November 30, 1981.Mr. Steven W. Peltier as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Peter J. Petkas as Scholar-in-Residence, Miller Center of Public Affairs, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Thomas A. Pitt as Lecturer, General Faculty, Office of Development, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mrs. Claire O. Pullin as Visiting Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for the period May 1, 1981 through June 30, 1981.Mr. Theodore G. Roefs as Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Murray Roston as Visiting Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Paula W. Sage as Acting Assistant Professor of Classics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Shirl S. Schiffman as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Joachim Schwalbach as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. Gary T. Schwartz as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Peter P. Sforza as Assistant Professor of Radiology, Roanoke Program, for two years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Jonathan Skinner as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Edward A. Smith, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. William M. Speidel as Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Burton Spivak as Associate Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Frances L. Stier as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. William E. Studdard, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Timothy J. Sullivan as Visiting Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. William M. Sutherland as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. James L. Sutphen as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective October 1, 1981.Dr. Christopher Y. Thomas, IV as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective August 16, 1981.Mr. David J. Toscano as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. M. Kirk Train as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Derek E. Tynan as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Milford S. Tysseland as Visiting Professor of Commerce, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Miss Lois A. Weithorn as Assistant Professor of Law, General Faculty, and Assistant Professor of Psychology, General Faculty, for the period July 13, 1981 through September 30, 1981.Mr. Van D. Westervelt as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Christina T. Wilhelm as Instructor, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective June 1, 1981.Mr. Michael J. Wirtz as Instructor in Electrical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Houston G. Wood, III as Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Kwamena A. Woode as Lecturer in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Timothy Woodman as Lecturer in Art, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF MR. ANTHONY NORICO
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Anthony Norico as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981, as approved by the Board on June 5, 1981, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF MR. JOSEPH V. ANDERSON
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Mr. Joseph V. Anderson as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, be and it is hereby changed from September 1, 1981 to January 16, 1982.

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the named chairs as shown below:Dr. Rayford S. Jones as Stephen H. Watts Professor of Surgery, effective January 1, 1982.Mr. Miles A. Townsend as Alice M. and Guy A. Wilson Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective January 1, 1982.(b) Leave of Absence for ChairholdersMr. Edwin Burmeister, Commonwealth Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, to accept a visiting position at Duke University.Mr. Edwin S. Cohen, Joseph M. Hartfield Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to serve as Counsel to the Covington and Burling Law Firm.Mr. Ernest A. Gellhorn, T. Munford Boyd Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to enable him to be partially supported by a Guggenheim Fellowship.(c) Change of Title for ChairholderDr. Peter J. Quesenberry, from Byrd Stuart Leavell Professor of Medicine, to Byrd Stuart Leavell Professor of Medicine and Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Ms. Janet H. Allaire as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Howard W. Allen as Associate Professor, General Faculty, School of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Howard W. Allen as Associate Professor of Education, General Faculty, for the period July 1, 1981 through August 15, 1981.Ms. Varnell Armstrong as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. William P. Arnold as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Robert A. Bageant as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Tyler A. Baker, III as Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Martha D. Ballenger as Associate Professor of Law, General Faculty, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Miss Barbee Bancroft as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one month, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Frank E. Barham as Associate Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. James J. Barnette as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Luiz Belardinelli as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Richard O. Bell as Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective January 1, 1982.Dr. James I. Bernhardt as Assistant Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. David W. Bishop as Assistant Professor of Dentistry and Pediatrics, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Gene D. Block as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Armistead P. Booker as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. James C. Boyd as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Ms. Larissa V. Brown as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert L. Brown as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert S. Brown as Professor of Education, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. John B. Bunch as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Mortimer M. Caplin as Visiting Professor of Law, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Dr. Abdulkadir Cevik as Visiting Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Robert L. Chevalier as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective June 1, 1981.Dr. William L. Clarke as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mrs. Jane C. Clarke as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. James J. Condon as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Philip H. Cooper as Associate Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Maximo L. Cuesta as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Raymond F. Dallin as Visiting Lecturer in Commerce, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Donal B. Day as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Richard L. Delanoy as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Terrence M. Dempsey as Assistant Professor of Education, General Faculty, for the period July 1, 1981 through August 15, 1981.Dr. Byard S. Deputy as Professor, General Medical Faculty, for four years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. John M. Dickey as Research Associate Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Mara E. Donaldson as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Gerald R. Donowitz as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. A. Bruce Dotson as Associate Professor of Planning, School of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Rufus R. Duffer as Assistant Professor of Family Practice, Lynchburg Program, for one year, effective January 1, 1981.Ms. Ann D. Dunn as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective January 1, 1982.Ms. Francesca C. Fay as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Philip S. Fogg as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Ernesto I. Freire-Hoyle as Visiting Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective August 1, 1981.Dr. Carl J. Friedman as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for two years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Jacques S. Gansler as Visiting Professor of Engineering Science and Systems, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Joseph Gieck as Assistant Professor of Education, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Galen R. Gisler as Research Associate Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Jean Goeppinger as Associate Professor of Nursing, for the period September 30, 1981 through May 31, 1982.Mr. Theodore W. Graves, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Margaret E. Gray as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Dieter H.M. Groschel as Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mrs. Mary A. Gunter as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Patrice G. Guyenet as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert J. Hall as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Joyce L. Hamlin as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective June 1, 1981.Dr. Carol R. Hassler as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective August 1, 1981.Mr. Herbert Hausmaninger as Professor of Law, for the period January 16, 1982 through March 20, 1982.Mr. Robert J. Havlen as Research Associate Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Frederick G. Hayden as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Richard B. Hays as Assistant Professor of Family Practice, for three years, effective January 1, 1981.Mr. David S. Heeschen as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Peter W. Heymann as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Brian C. Hoard as Assistant Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. William R. Hobbs as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective December 16, 1981.Mr. Brian C. Hocking as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part-time, for one month, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Robert H. Hodge, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. David E. Hogg as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Roger G. Hood as Professor of Law, for the period January 16, 1982 through March 20, 1982.Mr. Douglas P. Howard as Associate Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. John W. Hoyt as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Dennis T. Hu as Assistant Professor of Chinese, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Janette C. Hudson as Assistant Professor of German, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Irving L. Hutcherson as Assistant Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Jon K. Hutchison as Assistant Professor of Planning, School of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Michael H. Kaplan as Associate Professor of Education, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Lawrence D. Kavanagh as Visiting Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Peggye G. Lassiter as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. William B. Levy as Research Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Joel M. Linden as Research Assistant Professor of Physiology and Pharmacology, for the period July 1, 1981 through March 31, 1983.Mr. Harvey S. Liszt as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. John Lloyd as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Monica C. Lobo as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, and Physician, Department of Student Health, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Ms. Ann B. Loper as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Allen D. Majewski as Assistant Professor of Family Practice, Lynchburg Program, for one year, effective February 1, 1981.Dr. Cyrus Makoui as Assistant Professor of Pathology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Andrew B. Martof as Assistant Professor of Dentistry and Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Frank W. McCulloch as Scholar-in-Residence in Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Robert M. McLeod as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Frank D. Nidiffer, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Ralph G. O'Brien as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Mustafa F. Ozerengin as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Neal I. Payton as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Leo Pepa as Associate Professor of Radiology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. William D. Poe as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mrs. Patricia B. Porterfield as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective November 1, 1981.Mr. Thomas L. Prestwich as Assistant Professor of Commerce, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Yale Rabin as Associate Professor of Planning, School of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Adelle M. Renzaglia as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Stephen P. Reynolds as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. John Ritchie, III, as Scholar-in-Residence in Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Morton S. Roberts as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. David W. Robinson as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Jorge Roman as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Elliott M. Ross as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology and Biochemistry, for two months, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. John A. Rotondo as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. John C. Rowlingson as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Harishankar L. Sanghi as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Miss Nancy F. Santilli as Assistant Professor of Neurology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Charles F. Schmidt as Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for the period July 1, 1981 through December 31, 1981.Mrs. Elizabeth S. Scott as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Alan K. Scouten as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Catherine H. Seaman as Associate Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Covie E. See as Assistant Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Mehrdad Shahshahani as Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Gregory B. Shasby as Assistant Professor of Education, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Christopher Slobogin as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for the period August 1, 1981 through June 30, 1982.Mr. Willis J. Spaulding as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for the period October 1, 1981 through June 30, 1982.Mr. Supramaniam Srinivasan as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, for one year, effective June 1, 1981.Ms. Frances A. Stephenson as Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Frederick C. Steward as Scholar-in-Residence in Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Jerome W. Stokes as Assistant Professor of Law, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Graham B. Strong as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Kuldeep Teja as Associate Professor of Pathology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Joel L. Telles as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Mano J. Thubrikar as Research Assistant Professor of Surgery, for two years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Stephen W. Tonelson as Assistant Professor of Neurology, General Medical Faculty, and Assistant Professor of Education, for the period June 1, 1981 through December 31, 1981.Mr. Harry E. Turner as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Sterling N. Vines as Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Diane K. Wakat as Assistant Professor of Education, part-time, for the period September 1, 1981 through March 31, 1982.Mr. Robert C. Walker as Research Associate Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Carolyn C. Walker as Assistant Professor of Biology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Charles Warner as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Sander Weinreb as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Peter G. Whiteman as Professor of Law, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. R. Roy Whitney as Research Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. John D. Wilkes as Visiting Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. John J. Yazel as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective October 1, 1981.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Mrs. Sharon J. Beckman-Brindley from Instructor in Pediatrics to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. William R. Fendley from Assistant Professor, General Faculty to Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Joan E. Gore from Lecturer in Speech Communication to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. William A. MacIlwaine from Lecturer in Medicine to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Larry Richards from Research Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Research Associate Professor, General Faculty, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective June 1, 1981.Mr. George A. Stovall from Assistant Professor, General Faculty, to Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University or Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Amir H. Assadi, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, for research.Mr. Tyler A. Baker, Assistant Professor of Law, for the period September 1, 1981 through August 31, 1982, to serve as Special Assistant to the Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice.Mr. William F. Beazer, Associate Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982, to visit Louis Pasteur University, Strasburg.Mr. Leonard L. Berry, Professor of Commerce, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, for research.Miss Gladys E. Deters, Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to accept a fellowship at the University of Alabama.Mr. Charles E. Echols, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. R. Lavar Huntzinger, Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to visit the Center for Naval Analysis.Mr. Robert E. Johnson, Associate Professor of Engineering Physics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, for research.Mr. Glenn P. Kessler, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to do research.Ms. Susan G. Landin, Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. Eugene A. Lovelace, Associate Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to accept a Research Fellowship at Duke University.Mr. Bennett T. McCallum, Professor of Economics and Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to accept a visiting appointment at the Carnegie-Mellon University.Mr. James A. McPherson, Associate Professor of English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, to accept a MacArthur Fellowship.Dr. Ferid Murad, Professor of Medicine and Professor of Pharmacology, for the period September 1, 1981 through December 31, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. Joseph J. Murray, Professor of Biology, for the period September 1, 1981 through September 30, 1981, to lecture in India.Mr. Steven E. Rhoads, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982, to accept a Fellowship from the Institute for Educational Affairs.Mr. Richard G. Wilson, Associate Professor of Architectural History, for the period September 1, 1981 through December 31, 1981, to teach at the Polytechnic, London, England.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University or Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Richard R. Abidin, Jr. from Professor of Education to Professor of Education and Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. William Anderson from Assistant Professor of Education to Assistant Professor of Education and Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Miss Janet L. Beizer from Acting Assistant Professor of French to Assistant Professor of French, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. John D. Boyd, II, from Associate Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education and Associate Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. David R. Bradley from Acting Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering to Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. David D. Brydges from Professor of Mathematics to Professor of Mathematics and Physics, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Kenneth J. Burger from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Carolyn M. Callahan from Associate Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education and Associate Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Deborah N. Conway from Assistant Professor of Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Frank T. D'Alessandro from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty to Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for the period October 1, 1981 through June 30, 1982.Mr. Harry D. Dickinson from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the period September 1, 1981 through January 15, 1984.Ms. Marjorie A. Flavin from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics to Assistant Professor of Economics, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Sherwood C. Frey, Jr. from Associate Dean for Administration, The Darden School to Associate Dean for Academic Programs, The Darden School, for two years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Russell M. Grieger from Associate Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education and Associate Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Daniel P. Hallahan from Associate Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education and Associate Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Albert L. Huber from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective August 1, 1981.Mr. James M. Kauffman from Professor of Education to Professor of Education and Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Rebecca D. Kneedler from Associate Professor, General Faculty, School of Education to Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Sherry P. Kraft from Assistant Professor of Education to Assistant Professor of Education and Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Samuel T. Lloyd, III from Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies to Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert S. Marvin from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, and Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Wesley E. McDonald from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, General Faculty to Assistant Professor of Education, General Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Colin A. McLaurin from Research Professor of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation to Research Professor of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation and Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Wallace C. Nunley, Jr. from Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Assistant Professor of Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Robert L. Parks from Acting Assistant Professor of Physics to Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Ronald E. Reeve from Associate Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education and Associate Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Steven I. Reger from Associate Professor of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, and Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Herbert C. Richards from Associate Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education and Associate Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Peter L. Sheras from Associate Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education and Associate Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Jerry G. Short from Professor of Education to Professor of Education and Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Mark Siegler from Visiting Scholar in Religious Studies to Visiting Scholar in Religious Studies and Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Charles A. Singhas from Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Research Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Harold R. Strang from Associate Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education and Associate Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. John Strauss from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics to Assistant Professor of Economics, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Larry A. Wolfe from Assistant Professor of Education and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Education and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Dr. Oliver B. Bobbitt, Professor of Pathology, effective June 30, 1982. Dr. Bobbitt has been a member of the faculty since 1947.Mr. John P. Davison, Associate Professor of Pathology, effective June 30, 1982. Mr. Davison has been a member of the faculty since 1958.Dr. Nina G. Magier, Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke Program, effective June 30, 1981. Dr. Magier has been a member of the faculty since 1974.Dr. William I. Neikirk, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective August 31, 1981. Dr. Neikirk has been a member of the faculty since 1966.

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Dr. Oliver B. Bobbitt, Professor of Pathology.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mrs. Carole J. Adams, Assistant Dean, School of Commerce, effective August 15, 1981, to pursue a doctorate.Dr. Alvin K. Aronoff, Assistant Professor of Dentistry and Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery, effective August 31, 1981, to enter private practice.Mr. W. Scott Bauman, Professor of Business Administration, effective May 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mrs. Carolyn M. Beckham, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective August 31, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. Francis L. Belloni, Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, effective July 31, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. Leonard L. Berry, Professor of Commerce, effective January 16, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. Rodney L. Biltonen, Associate Dean, School of Medicine, effective August 31, 1981, to remain as Associate Provost for Research and Professor of Pharmacology.Mr. Gary Brooker, Professor of Pharmacology, effective August 31, 1981, to accept another position.Dr. Blase A. Carabello, Assistant Professor of Medicine, effective June 30, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Gerald Cook, Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective August 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Robert J. Douglass, Jr., Assistant Professor of Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective August 31, 1981, for personal reasons.Dr. Peyton A. Eggleston, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective August 31, 1981, to accept another position.Ms. Wanda B. Elder, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective August 31, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. Robert R. Garnett, Assistant Dean of Admissions, effective August 31, 1981, to accept another position.Dr. Alfred G. Gilman, Jr., Professor of Pharmacology, effective June 30, 1981, to accept another position.Mrs. Mary L. Greene, Assistant Professor of Social Work, General Medical Faculty, effective July 31, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. Hubert P. Hooper, Associate Professor of Commerce, effective August 13, 1981, to accept another position.Dr. Marius M. Hubbell, Jr., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Alan L. Huddleston, Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective August 31, 1981, to accept another position.Ms. Jane D. Hurst, Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1, 1981, to accept another position.Dr. Hallam H. Ivey, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective June 30, 1981, to leave area.Dr. Dietrich Kettler, Visiting Professor of Anesthesiology, effective October 31, 1981, for personal reasons.Dr. Karen S. Kuehl, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty and Assistant Professor of Physiology, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1981, to accept another position.Ms. Charlotte R. Lambeth, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Education, effective July 13, 1981, to accept another position.Ms. Susan G. Landin, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective January 15, 1982, for personal reasons.Ms. Patricia A. McClung, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective June 30, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. Gary B. Melton, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, and Department of Psychology, Director of Research, Institute of Law, Psychiatry and Public Policy, effective August 31, 1981, to accept another position.Dr. Dennis H. Novack, Assistant Professor of Medicine and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective June 30, 1981, to accept another position.Dr. John V. Phillips, Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective June 30, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Frank Pike, Jr., Assistant Professor of Drama, effective September 14, 1981, for personal reasons.Dr. William E. Reefe, Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, effective June 30, 1981, to accept another position.Dr. Randy F. Rizor, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, effective August 31, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. Elliott M. Ross, Assistant Professor of Pharmacology and Biochemistry, effective August 31, 1981, to accept another position.Dr. Charles J. Schleupner, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, effective July 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. William J. Serow, Associate Professor, The Darden School, effective August 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Murray D. Smigel, Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, effective June 30, 1981, to accept another position.Ms. Margaret J. Spalding, Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, effective August 15, 1981, for personal reasons.Ms. Sondra Stallard, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Education, effective July 6, 1981, to accept another position at the University of Virginia.Mr. Stephen W. Tonelson, Assistant Professor of Neurology and Education, effective July 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Robert F. Turner, III, Assistant Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1981, to accept another position.Captain Evan J. Vaughan, Professor of Naval Science, effective June 30, 1981, to retire from the U.S. Navy.Mr. Robert H. Willoughby, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective June 30, 1981, to enter private practice.Ms. Ellen D. Zide, Assistant Professor, Office of Student Affairs, effective July 31, 1981, for personal reasons.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Bruce J. Abbey as Co-Chairman of the Division of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Marjorie H. Andrews as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Maurice Apprey as Assistant Dean, Student Affairs, School of Medicine, for the period January 1, 1982 through April 30, 1982.Mr. Rodney L. Biltonen as Associate Provost for Research, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. William C. Boynton as Acting Associate Dean, School of Commerce, for the period September 1, 1981 through June 30, 1982Mr. Robert R. Fair as Associate Dean for External Relations, The Darden School, for five years, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Jessica R. Feldman as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. William R. Fendley as Associate Director, Office of Resource and Policy Studies, for three years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Thomas J. Fields as Assistant to the Vice President and Provost, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Renee E. Fleming as Assistant Director, Office of Career Planning and Placement, for one year, effective July 20, 1981.Mr. Jerome T. Fosselman as Associate Director for Finance, University of Virginia Hospital, for three years, effective October 16, 1981.Mr. David T. Gies as Acting Chairman, Department of Spanish, Italian and Portuguese, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. John F. Harlan, Jr. as Assistant Vice President for Allied Health Affairs, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Robert H. Hodge, Jr. as Medical Director of Ambulatory Care Services, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. William E. Jackson as Associate Director for Research and Fellowships, Institute of Afro-American and African Studies, for five years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Rayford S. Jones as Chairman, Department of Surgery, for five years, effective January 1, 1982.Mr. James M. Kauffman as Associate Dean for Research, School of Education, for four years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. K. Edward Lay as Associate Dean for Administrative and Student Affairs, School of Architecture, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Delois Lindsay-Newton as Director, Black Culture Center, for one year, effective August 1, 1981.Mr. Burton J. Litman as Assistant Dean, School of Medicine, for the period September 1, 1981 through April 30, 1982.Mr. Thomas K. Marshall as Program Coordinator, University Union, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Bennett T. McCallum as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two academic years, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. Keith P.F. Moxey as Acting Chairman, Department of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Lois S. Owens as Assistant Director, Institute of Afro-American and African Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Thomas L. Pearce as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective August 17, 1981.Sir Rudolf E. Peierls, FRS as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for the period October 16, 1981 through November 30, 1981.Mr. Yale Rabin as Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Architecture, for two years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Edward A. Smith, Jr. as Associate Director for Services, University of Virginia Hospital, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Neil H. Snyder as Assistant Dean of Commerce, for the period August 16, 1981 through June 30, 1983.Mr. Paul B. Stephan, III as Associate Director of the Center for Law and National Security, for two years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. George A. Stovall as Director, Office of Resource and Policy Studies, for three years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Miles A. Townsend as Chairman of the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for five academic years, effective January 1, 1982.Mr. W. Garrett Walton, Jr. as Assistant to the Provost, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.

CORRECTION IN THE APPOINTMENT OF MR. RANDALL R. SMITH
-----------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the appointment of Mr. Randall R. Smith as announced to the Board on June 5, 1981 be changed to read as follows: Mr. Randall R. Smith as Assistant Dean of Commerce, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Dr. Ernst O. Attinger as Chairman, Department of Biomedical Engineering, for five years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Frank E. Barham as Chairman of the Department of Administration and Supervision, School of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Staige D. Blackford as Special Assistant to the President and Editor, Virginia Quarterly Review, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Ralph C. Bralley as Chairman, Department of Speech Pathology and Audiology, School of Education, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Barbara M. Brodie as Assistant Dean for Graduate Programs, School of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Michael S. Caldwell as Chairman of the Department of Educational Research and Evaluation, and Director of the Bureau of Education Research, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Richard C. Collins as Chairman of the Division of Planning, School of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert D. Dripps, III, as Co-Chairman of the Division of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Priscilla O. Jobe as Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, School of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Richard W. Kesler as Vice-Chairman, Department of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Glenn P. Kessler as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for two years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. James E. Kinard as University History Officer, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. David B. Lawall as Curator, Bayly Museum, for three years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. K. Edward Lay as Assistant Dean of Architecture, for the period July 1, 1981 through August 31, 1982.Dr. Jacob A. Lohr as Vice-Chairman, Department of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. James O. McDowelle as Associate Dean of Afro-American Affairs, for the period August 1, 1981 through July 31, 1982.Mr. Harry W. Porter as Chairman of the Division of Landscape Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Cynthia F. Raines as Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Programs, School of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Jerome W. Stokes as Assistant Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, School of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.

DEATH OF CECIL A. HUTCHINSON
----------------------------

DEATH OF DR. JAN LANGMAN
------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BROWN-FORMAN PROFESSORSHIP IN ONE OF THE FIELDS OF ECONOMICS, ENGLISH, HISTORY, OR PSYCHOLOGY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences a Chair in any one of the Departments of Economics, English, History or Psychology, to be known as the Brown-Forman Professorship in the field of the occupant chosen for the Chair. The Board is grateful to the Brown-Forman Distillers Corporation who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WILLIAM S. POTTER PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Law a Chair to be known as the William S. Potter Professorship in Law. The Board is grateful to the family of Mr. Potter who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WHITNEY STONE PROFESSORSHIP IN NUCLEAR ENGINEERING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Engineering and Applied Science a Chair to be known as the Whitney Stone Professorship in Nuclear Engineering. The Board is grateful to Mrs. Whitney Stone, Stone and Webster, Incorporated, of New York City, and the Janet Stone Jones Foundation who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOHN STEWART BRYAN PROFESSORSHIP IN ENGLISH
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the John Stewart Bryan Professorship in English. The Board is grateful to members of the Bryan family who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LEWIS F. POWELL, JR. PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Law to be known as the Lewis F. Powell, Jr. Professorship in Law. The Board is grateful to anonymous donors who made this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ARTHUR J. MORRIS PROFESSORSHIP IN COMMERCE
---------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Commerce a Professorship to be known as The Morris Plan Chair of Consumer Banking. The Board is grateful to the late Arthur J. Morris, a distinguished alumnus, who made this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OSCAR SWINEFORD, JR. PROFESSORSHIP IN ALLERGY (INTERNAL MEDICINE)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the Oscar Swineford, Jr. Professorship in Allergy (Internal Medicine). The Board is grateful to former students, residents, and allergy patients of Dr. Oscar Swineford, Jr.

RENTAL RATES FOR HOUSING FACILITIES FOR THE SUMMER 1982
-------------------------------------------------------

FACILITY

Approved Summer 1981

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rate Summer 1982

SUMMER SESSION RATES (Including PHD Institute)

Alderman-Observatory

Per student, per week, double occup.

$ 24.00

$ 3.00

13%

$ 27.00

Per student, per week, single occup.

30.00

4.00

13%

34.00

Nurses Apartment Complex

Per student, per week, double occup.

$ 30.00

$ 3.00

10%

$ 33.00

Per student, per week, single occup.

38.00

4.00

11%

42.00

SUMMER CONFERENCE RATES

Lambeth Field, Copeley III, & Nurses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 12.00

$ 1.50

13%

$ 13.50

Per person, per night, single occup.

16.50

2.50

15%

19.00

Family rates, per week 2 bdrm apt

$110.00

Not Applicable\* \*The proposed rate for 1982 results from a restructuring of the rate to more accurately assess the charge on the basis of costs incurred and services rendered to families.

$150.00

Family rates, per week 3 bdrm apt

125.00

Not Applicable\*

200.00

Monroe Hill Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 10.00

$ 1.50

15%

$ 11.50

Per person, per night, single occup.

14.50

2.00

14%

16.50

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 8.00

$ 1.00

13%

$ 9.00

Per person, per night, single occup.

12.00

1.00

8%

13.00

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per night, double occup., without linen

$ 5.50

$ 1.00

18%

$ 6.50

Per person, per night, double occup.

6.50

1.50

23%

8.00

Per person, per night, single occup.

11.00

1.00

9%

12.00

Graduate Advisor Suites in Alderman and McCormick Road Houses

Per suite, per week

$ 55.00

$ 10.00

18%

$ 65.00

GUEST FACILITIES

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, for first night

$ 9.00

$ 1.00

11%

$ 10.00

Per person, for night thereafter

7.00

1.00

14%

8.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following rental rates for housing facilities for Summer 1982, be and they are hereby approved: FACILITYApproved Summer 1981Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rate Summer 1982SUMMER SESSION RATES (Including PHD Institute)Alderman-ObservatoryPer student, per week, double occup.$ 24.00$ 3.0013%$ 27.00Per student, per week, single occup.30.004.0013%34.00Nurses Apartment ComplexPer student, per week, double occup.$ 30.00$ 3.0010%$ 33.00Per student, per week, single occup.38.004.0011%42.00SUMMER CONFERENCE RATESLambeth Field, Copeley III, & NursesPer person, per night, double occup.$ 12.00$ 1.5013%$ 13.50Per person, per night, single occup.16.502.5015%19.00Family rates, per week 2 bdrm apt$110.00Not Applicable\* \*The proposed rate for 1982 results from a restructuring of the rate to more accurately assess the charge on the basis of costs incurred and services rendered to families. $150.00Family rates, per week 3 bdrm apt125.00Not Applicable\*200.00Monroe Hill HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ 10.00$ 1.5015%$ 11.50Per person, per night, single occup.14.502.0014%16.50Alderman/Observatory HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ 8.00$ 1.0013%$ 9.00Per person, per night, single occup.12.001.008%13.00McCormick Road HousesPer person, per night, double occup., without linen$ 5.50$ 1.0018%$ 6.50Per person, per night, double occup.6.501.5023%8.00Per person, per night, single occup.11.001.009%12.00Graduate Advisor Suites in Alderman and McCormick Road HousesPer suite, per week$ 55.00$ 10.0018%$ 65.00GUEST FACILITIESMcCormick Road HousesPer person, for first night$ 9.00$ 1.0011%$ 10.00Per person, for night thereafter7.001.0014%8.00

The proposed rate for 1982 results from a restructuring of the rate to more accurately assess the charge on the basis of costs incurred and services rendered to families.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

University of Virginia Hospital:

Bad Debts

$1,623,808.38

Free Service

5,453,748.07

\---------------

Total

$7,077,556.45

Blue Ridge Hospital Division:

Bad Debts

$1,260.19

Free Service

780,210.84

\----------------

Total

$781,471.03

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts listed on University of Virginia Hospital schedule numbers 407 through 412 for the months of April through July, 1981, totaling $7,077,556.45, and Blue Ridge Hospital Division schedule numbers 459 through 468 for the months of April through July, 1981, totaling $781,471.03, consisting of the following: University of Virginia Hospital:Bad Debts$1,623,808.38Free Service5,453,748.07---------------Total$7,077,556.45Blue Ridge Hospital Division:Bad Debts$1,260.19Free Service780,210.84----------------Total$781,471.03 RESOLVED FURTHER, that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of the debts represented by such accounts.

APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL REPORT PERTAINING TO EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATEUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA JOHN LEE PRATT FUNDS AS OF JUNE 30, 1981
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unexpended Balance 06/30/80

Board Approval Allocations

1980-81 Expenditures

Unexpended Balance 06/30/81

Arts and Sciences Biology

Student Support

$ 37,004.30

$ 33,000.00

$ 47,698.00

$ 22,306.30

Faculty Salary Supplement

3,904.16

1,200.00

4,358.75

745.41

Research and Equipment

100,070.09

71,200.00

65,820.77

105,449.32

$ 140,978.55

$ 105,400.00

$ 117,877.52

$ 128,501.03

Chemistry

Student Support

$ 24,189.44

$ 42,000.00

$ 21,613.68

$ 44,575.76

Faculty Salary Supplement

4,611.67

0.00

0.00

4,611.67

Research and Equipment

301,290.67

42,500.00

229,066.41

114,724.26

$ 330,091.78

$ 84,500.00

$ 250,680.09

$ 163,911.69

Mathematics

Student Support

$ 34,899.90

$ 68,000.00

$ 44,058.35

$ 58,841.55

Faculty Salary Supplement

46,249.48

54,400.00

32,775.99

67,873.49

Research and Equipment

46,600.00

(36,000.00)

2,600.00

8,000.00

$ 127,749.38

$ 86,400.00

$ 79,434.34

$ 134,715.04

Physics

Student Support

$ 27,422.60

$ 20,000.00

$ 24,075.76

$ 23,346.84

Faculty Salary Supplement

0.00

25,700.00

1,710.02

23,989.98

Research and Equipment

113,697.25

151,700.00

39,701.46

225,695.79

$ 141,119.85

$ 197,400.00

$ 65,487.24

$ 273,032.61

School of Medicine

Student Support

$ 94,945.81

$ 85,000.00

$ 65,966.74

$ 113,979.07

Research and Equipment

879,496.28

216,922.00

331,488.58

764,929.70

$ 974,442.09

$ 301,922.00

$ 397,455.32

$ 878,908.77

$ 1,714,381.65

$ 775,622.00

$ 910,934.51

$ 1,579,069.14

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the financial report pertaining to funds received from the Estate of John Lee Pratt for the period ended June 30, 1981, be and it is hereby approved.

Unexpended Balance 06/30/80Board Approval Allocations1980-81 ExpendituresUnexpended Balance 06/30/81Arts and Sciences BiologyStudent Support$ 37,004.30$ 33,000.00$ 47,698.00$ 22,306.30Faculty Salary Supplement3,904.161,200.004,358.75745.41Research and Equipment100,070.0971,200.0065,820.77105,449.32$ 140,978.55$ 105,400.00$ 117,877.52$ 128,501.03ChemistryStudent Support$ 24,189.44$ 42,000.00$ 21,613.68$ 44,575.76Faculty Salary Supplement4,611.670.000.004,611.67Research and Equipment301,290.6742,500.00229,066.41114,724.26$ 330,091.78$ 84,500.00$ 250,680.09$ 163,911.69MathematicsStudent Support$ 34,899.90$ 68,000.00$ 44,058.35$ 58,841.55Faculty Salary Supplement46,249.4854,400.0032,775.9967,873.49Research and Equipment46,600.00(36,000.00)2,600.008,000.00$ 127,749.38$ 86,400.00$ 79,434.34$ 134,715.04PhysicsStudent Support$ 27,422.60$ 20,000.00$ 24,075.76$ 23,346.84Faculty Salary Supplement0.0025,700.001,710.0223,989.98Research and Equipment113,697.25151,700.0039,701.46225,695.79$ 141,119.85$ 197,400.00$ 65,487.24$ 273,032.61School of MedicineStudent Support$ 94,945.81$ 85,000.00$ 65,966.74$ 113,979.07Research and Equipment879,496.28216,922.00331,488.58764,929.70$ 974,442.09$ 301,922.00$ 397,455.32$ 878,908.77$ 1,714,381.65$ 775,622.00$ 910,934.51$ 1,579,069.14

Note: (1) Allocations represent amount approved by Board for 1981-82

AUTHORIZATION FOR CERTAIN UNIVERSITY EMPLOYEES TO EXECUTE DOCUMENTS
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has, by previous resolutions, granted authority to certain University of Virginia employees to execute various documents on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia public corporation (the "University"); andWHEREAS, the Board now wishes to consolidate and expand such authority and to grant authority to certain University employees to delegate such authority to other employees for certain transactions;NOW THEREFORE IT IS RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia as follows:1. President, Vice President for Business and Finance (Comptroller) and University ComptrollerThe President, Vice President for Business and Finance (who as Comptroller is an Officer of the Board), and the University Comptroller, of the University, are hereby authorized, jointly and separately, subject to the limitations in subparagraphs (b) through (g) hereof, to execute in the name of and on behalf of the University any or all documents in whatever form and for whatever purpose, including, but not limited to, the following:(a) Deeds, leases, contracts, certificates, receipts, deeds of trust, promissory notes, bonds, checks, tax returns and reports, claims for refund, releases, waivers, bills of sale, stock certificates, proxies, security agreements, financing statements, affidavits, pleadings, and responses to interrogatories.Such employees are authorized to execute any or all of such documents which they, jointly or separately, feel in their sole discretion should be executed, and such discretion may be exercised without any necessity of prior approval, or ratification, by the Board of Visitors or any committee thereof, except that such employees may only execute the following documents with the prior approval of the Board of Visitors, or the Executive Committee thereof, and shall execute such documents as directed by such Board or Committee:(b) Deeds, contracts and any other documents by which the University conveys, or contracts to convey, any of its real estate or interest in real estate, excluding leasehold interests;(c) Contracts, leases and any other documents by which the University leases, or contracts to lease, any of its real estate for more than six months with an effective monthly rental exceeding $1,000;(d) Contracts and any other documents by which the University acquires, or contracts to acquire, any real estate, or real estate interest, excluding leasehold interests;(e) Contracts, leases and any other documents by which the University acquires, or contracts to acquire, any leasehold interest in real estate for more than one year with an effective annual rental exceeding $100,000;(f) Contracts and any other documents by which the University acquires, or contracts to acquire, by purchase, lease or otherwise, goods for an amount exceeding $1,000,000;(g) Contracts and any other documents by which the University acquires, or contracts to acquire, services for an amount exceeding $250,000.2. Secretary and Assistant Secretary of the Board of VisitorsThe Secretary and the Assistant Secretary of the Board of Visitors are hereby authorized, jointly and separately, to affix the corporate seal of the University to any or all of the documents described in this resolution, to attest such seal, and to execute certificates concerning the continued effectiveness of this or any other resolution of the Board, or any amendment thereto, and such authority may be exercised, jointly or separately, in their sole discretion without any necessity of prior approval, or ratification, by the Board of Visitors or any committee thereof.3. DelegationThe President, Vice President for Business and Finance (who is also the Comptroller) and the University Comptroller, of the University, are hereby authorized, jointly and separately, to delegate to other University employees any or all of the authority to execute any documents other than those described in subparagraphs 1 (b) through (g) above, provided that:(a) each delegation shall be in writing and shall be to a named individual; and(b) each delegation shall specify the types of documents which may be executed, including any applicable dollar limitation.4. Rescission of Previous ResolutionsAll previous resolutions authorizing University employees to execute documents in the name and on behalf of the University are hereby rescinded. Such rescission shall not in any way affect the validity of any documents signed under the authority of any such previous resolution.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

Vice-President Avery Catlin reported on the current status of construction projects. Mr. Catlin advised that the Readers Library project is 93% completed and that the Newcomb Hall addition will be completed during the current school year. Mr. Catlin also advised that there has been considerable progress in expediting the projects associated with University research activities.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period May 1, 1981 through September 21, 1981, be and they are hereby approved.

ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
------------------------------------------

A report on private gifts indicated that $310,500 has been contributed during the period May 1, 1981 through June 30, 1981. During the same period $7,499,800 was received to support sponsored programs at the University.

REPORT ON THE AAU SALARY SCALE
------------------------------

Vice-President Edwin Floyd advised the Board that in terms of average faculty salary, the University ranked 22, the same as it was last year. When fringe benefits are included in the comparison, the ranking was 29th. Mr. Floyd explained that low salaries for the assistant professors are primarily responsible for our showing in this comparative study.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE APPROVAL OF THE SALE OF PROPERTY IN NEW ORLEANS (FROM THE VINCENT ESTATE)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that pursuant to Section 13. 1-216 of the Code of Virginia, and Section 3.1 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Executive Committee approved a contract of sale for property in Square 230, First Municipal District, City of New Orleans, jointly owned by the University of Virginia, Trinity Church, and Tulane University for a price of $2,829,776.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE APPROVAL OF LEASE/PURCHASE AGREEMENT FOR SYNTHETIC TURF FOR SCOTT STADIUM
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that in accordance with Section 3.1 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors and pursuant to Section 13.1-216 of the Code of Virginia the Executive Committee approved a lease/purchase agreement for the synthetic turf for Scott. Stadium with the firm of Horner, Barksdale and Company, and authorized the Comptroller or the University Comptroller to execute the lease and any and all documents relating to the lease purchase financing of the synthetic turf for Scott Stadium.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION TO MR. COLGATE WHITEHEAD DARDEN, JR.
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Mr. Colgate Whitehead Darden, Jr., a distinguished alumnus of the University of Virginia, returned as its third President in 1947 after serving three terms in the Congress of the United States and after serving as Governor of Virginia; andWHEREAS, the University of Virginia flourished under his leadership, expanding its enrollment and physical plant; and in its service to the Commonwealth the University became the true capstone of higher education in Virginia, as envisioned by Mr. Jefferson; andWHEREAS, under his wise guidance the influence of the University within the Commonwealth and the Nation was significantly enhanced;NOW LET IT THEREFORE BE RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors expresses gratitude for the generous devotion of Mr. Colgate Whitehead Darden, Jr., for his wise counsel, his dauntless leadership, his prevailing wit, and his affectionate guidance and that expressions of sympathy be spread upon the Permanent Minutes of the Board, and that a copy of this resolution be presented to Mrs. Darden and the family.

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF BOND ANTICIPATION NOTES OF 1981
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Board desires to provide for the temporary financing of the new telephone communications system through the issuance and sale of the University's notes in anticipation of the issuance and sale of the Bonds.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF BOND ANTICIPATION NOTES OF 1981 October 10, 1981ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONARTICLE II DETERMINATIONS, OBLIGATION OF THE NOTE RESOLUTION AND NOTESARTICLE III AUTHORIZATION OF NOTES AND TERMS THEREOFARTICLE IV APPLICATION OF NOTE ACCOUNTARTICLE V COVENANTSARTICLE VI SALE AND DELIVERY OF THE NOTESARTICLE VII DEFEASANCE OF 1980 NOTESARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Section 101. Short Title. This resolution may hereafter be cited, and is hereinafter sometimes referred to, as the "Note Resolution".

Section 102. Definitions. In this Note Resolution unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:

(1) Articles and Sections mentioned by number only are respective Articles and Sections of this Note Resolution so numbered;

(2) "Act" shall mean Section 23-30.01 of the Code of Virginia (1950), as amended to the date of adoption of this Note Resolution;

(3) "Authorized Officer" means the Comptroller of the University and any other person authorized by resolution of the Board of Visitors of the University or the Executive Committee thereof to act as an Authorized Officer hereunder;

(4) "Board" means the Board of Visitors of the University acting as the governing body thereof;

(5) "Depository" means the banking institution designated as such pursuant to Section 802;

(6) "Endowment Fund" means the Endowment Fund of the University which is subject to the control of the Board;

(7) The terms "herein", "hereunder", "hereby", "hereto", "hereof" and any similar terms refer to this Note Resolution, and the term "hereafter" means after the date of adoption of this Note Resolution;

(8) "Investment Obligation" means any of the following which, at the time the investment therein is made, are lawful investments for public funds under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia: (i) direct general obligations of the United States of America or the Commonwealth of Virginia; (ii) obligations the payment of the principal of and interest on which, in the opinion of the Attorney General of the United States in office at the time such obligations were issued in the case of obligations of the United States or in the opinion of counsel in the case of obligations of the Commonwealth of Virginia, are unconditionally guaranteed by the United States of America or the Commonwealth of Virginia;

(9) "Note" or "Notes" means one or more than one of the notes of the University particularly authorized by Section 301;

(10) "Noteholder", or "holder" or any similar term, when used with reference to a Note or Notes, means any person who is the bearer of any Note outstanding and unpaid;

(11) "Paying Agent" and "Co-Paying Agent" means the banking institutions designated as such pursuant to Section 802;

(12) "University" means The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a public body and governmental instrumentality of the Commonwealth of Virginia;

(13) "Unrestricted Quasi-Endowment Funds" means the moneys and assets determined by the Board to be retained and held in the Endowment Fund and which are not subject to any restriction, whether imposed by the donor thereof or by the Board, on the use thereof or on the use of the income therefrom;

(14) Words importing the singular number include the plural number and vice versa and words importing persons include firms, associations and corporations.

Section 201. Authority for Note Resolution. This Note Resolution is adopted pursuant to the Act.

Section 202. Note Resolution to Constitute Contract. In consideration of the purchase and acceptance of any and all of the Notes by those who shall hold the same from time to time, the provisions of this Note Resolution shall be a part of the contract of the University with the holders of the Notes and shall be deemed to be and shall constitute a contract between the University and the holders from time to time of the Notes, and such provisions are covenants and agreements with such holders which the University hereby determines to be necessary and desirable for the security and payment thereof. The provisions, covenants and agreements herein set forth to be performed by or on behalf of the University shall be for the benefit, protection and security of any of the holders of any and all of the Notes, all of which shall be of equal rank without preference, priority or distinction of any of the Notes over any other thereof.

Section 203. Obligation of Notes. The Notes shall be limited obligations of the University, payable solely from the revenues and receipts derived from the assets and funds pledged to secure the Notes.

Section 301. Authorization of Issue of Notes. Notes of the University in an aggregate principal amount of $7,500,000 are hereby authorized to be issued, subject to the terms, conditions and limitations provided or referred to herein.

Section 302. General Terms of the Notes. The Notes shall be dated November 5, 1981, be due and payable as to interest on May 5, 1982, November 5, 1982 and May 5, 1983, be in the denomination of $25,000 each, be in bearer form and bear interest at the rate determined pursuant to Section 601. The Notes shall mature on May 5, 1983, shall be numbered from one through 300 inclusive, and be payable as to both principal and interest in lawful money of the United States at the principal office of the Paying Agent, in the City of Richmond, Virginia, or at the option of the holder, at the principal office of the Co-Paying Agent, in the City of New York, New York. Each Note shall be executed in the name of the University by the facsimile signature of its Rector and its corporate seal (or facsimile thereof) shall be affixed, imprinted, engraved or otherwise reproduced thereon and attested by the manual signature of its Secretary or Assistant Secretary. The Notes shall be subject to redemption in whole prior to maturity at any time on or after November 5, 1981, at a redemption price of 100.375% of the par value thereof, plus accrued interest to the date of redemption. Notice of such redemption shall be given by the University by publication once in a newspaper of general circulation published in the City of Richmond, Virginia, and in a daily newspaper of general circulation or a financial journal published in the Borough of Manhattan, New York, New York, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date. Prior to the date fixed for redemption, funds shall be placed with the Paying Agent to pay the principal of and premium on the Notes and accrued interest thereon to the redemption date. Upon the happening of the above conditions, the Notes shall cease to bear interest from and after the redemption date, shall no longer be protected by this Note Resolution and shall not be deemed to be outstanding under the provisions of this Note Resolution.

The Notes shall not be deemed to constitute a debt, a general obligation or a pledge of the faith and credit of the Commonwealth of Virginia or any political subdivision or governmental instrumentality thereof, including the University. Neither the Commonwealth of Virginia nor any political subdivision or governmental instrumentality thereof nor the University shall be obligated to pay the principal of the Notes, the interest thereof or other costs incident thereto except from the revenues and receipts pledged therefor, and neither the faith and credit nor the taxing power of the Commonwealth of Virginia or any political subdivision thereof will be pledged to the payment of such principal, interest or costs.

Section 303. Form of the Notes and Coupons. Subject to the provisions of this Note Resolution, each Note and Coupon shall be in substantially the following form, with such insertions or omissions, endorsements or variations as are not inconsistent with this Note Resolution.

(Form of Note)

No.\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ $25,000.00

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA BOND ANTICIPATION NOTE OF 1981

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (the "University"), a public body and governmental instrumentality of the Commonwealth of Virginia, for value received, hereby promises to pay, solely from the source and as hereinafter provided, upon presentation and surrender hereof, the principal sum of TWENTY-FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS ($25,000) on May 5, 1983, and to pay from such source interest hereon from the date hereof until payment at the rate of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ per cent (\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_%) per year, payable May 5, 1982, November 5, 1982 and at maturity on May 5, 1983. The principal of this Note and the interest hereon shall be payable at the principal office of , Richmond, Virginia, or, at the option of the holder, at the principal office of , New York, New York. Interest shall be payable upon surrender of the attached coupons as they become due. Both principal and interest are payable in lawful money of the United States of America.

This Note is one of an issue of $7,500,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Bond Anticipation Notes of 1981 (the "Notes"), of like date and tenor except as to number authorized by a resolution duly adopted by the Board of Visitors of the University on October 9, 1981, (the "Resolution") and is issued pursuant to Section 23-30.01 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended, to provide funds for the acquisition and installation of a telephone communications system for the University. The Notes are issued under the Resolution and are equally and ratably secured by a pledge of certain moneys and assets held in the University's unrestricted quasi-endowment. Reference is hereby made to the Resolution and to all amendments and supplements thereto for a description of the property pledged and the provisions, among others, with respect to the nature and extent of the security, the rights, duties and obligations of the University and the rights of the holders of the Notes and the terms upon which the Notes are issued and secured.

The Notes may not be called for redemption by the University prior to November 5, 1982. The Notes are subject to redemption by the University in whole at any time on or after November 5, 1982, upon payment of a redemption price of 100 3/8% of the par value thereof, plus accrued interest to the redemption date.

If the Notes are called for redemption, the University shall cause a notice thereof to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation published in the City of Richmond, Virginia, and in a daily newspaper of general circulation or a financial journal published in the Borough of Manhattan, New York, New York, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date. The Notes shall cease to bear interest on the redemption date, provided funds for their redemption are on deposit at the place of payment at that time, shall no longer be secured by the Resolution and shall not be deemed to be outstanding under the provisions of the Resolution.

This Note and the issue of which it is a part and the interest thereon are limited obligations of the University payable solely from the revenues and receipts derived from the assets pledged to secure the Notes, which revenues and receipts have been pledged to secure payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes. The Notes and the interest thereon shall not be deemed to constitute a debt, a general obligation or a pledge of the faith and credit of the Commonwealth of Virginia or any political subdivision or governmental instrumentality thereof, including the University. Neither the Commonwealth of Virginia nor any political subdivision or governmental instrumentality thereof nor the University shall be obligated to pay the principal of the Notes, the interest thereon or other costs incident thereto except from the revenues and receipts pledged therefor and neither the faith and credit nor the taxing power of the Commonwealth of Virginia or any political subdivision or governmental instrumentality thereof is pledged to the payment of the principal of the Notes or the interest thereon or other costs incident thereto.

This Note shall be fully transferable by delivery.

All acts, conditions and things required by the Constitution and statutes of the Commonwealth of Virginia to happen, exist or be performed precedent to and in the issuance of this Note have happened, exist and have been performed.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia has caused this Note to be signed by the facsimile signature of its Rector, its seal to be affixed or a facsimile thereof printed hereon and attested by its Secretary or Assistant Secretary, the attached coupons to be authenticated by the facsimile signature of its Rector and this Note to be dated as of November 5, 1981.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

(SEAL) By\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Rector

ATTEST: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Secretary

(Form of Coupon)

No.\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ $\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

On , 19\_\_, unless the Note to which this coupon is attached has been duly called for prior redemption and provision made for payment thereof, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia will pay to bearer, solely from the revenues and receipts pledged to the payment of the Note hereinafter mentioned, the amount shown hereon upon presentation and surrender hereof at the principal office of United Virginia Bank, Richmond, Virginia, or at the option of the holder, at the principal office of Bankers Trust Company, New York, New York, in lawful money of the United States of America, being the semi-annual interest then due on its Bond Anticipation Note of 1981, dated November 5, 1981, and numbered \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Rector

Section 401. Creation of Note Account. There is hereby created and established a special trust account to be deposited with and held by the Depository called the University of Virginia 1981 Bond Anticipation Note Account (the "Note Account"). The proceeds of the sale of the Notes shall be deposited in the Note Account and held therein with all investments thereof. Any payment (or transfer of funds) made by the University upon its special obligation promissory note dated November 5, 1981, shall be deemed received and shall be deposited in the Note Account.

Section 402. Application of Note Account. Any amount held in the Note Account shall be used, together with other available funds to pay the costs of issuance of the Notes, the costs of acquiring and installing a new telephone communication system for the University and the interest on and principal of the Notes.

Section 403. Pledge.

(A) As security for the payment of the Notes, the University hereby pledges (1) all moneys and investments in the Note Account, together with the earnings thereon, subject to the right of the University to withdraw money therefrom pursuant to this Note Resolution and (2) the University's Unrestricted Quasi-Endowment.

(B) The University shall not create or suffer to be created any pledge, lien or charge upon the Unrestricted Quasi-Endowment Funds, other than the pledge created by this Resolution and except for the pledge, lien or charge of other obligations or indebtedness of the University, including the University's Faculty Housing Revenue Bonds, Series of 1972 issued under an indenture between the University and Virginia National Bank, Trustee, dated as of February 1, 1972, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of which, when added to the principal amount of the Notes, does not exceed 75% of the amount of the Unrestricted Quasi-Endowment Funds. No such pledge, lien or charge other than that of the University's said Faculty Housing Revenue Bonds shall be superior to the pledge hereof.

(C) The University shall not impose any restrictions on any amounts held in its Endowment Funds, or the income therefrom, if by doing so it would reduce the market value of its Unrestricted Quasi-Endowment Funds to less than 133% of the outstanding principal amount of all obligations, including the Notes and the Faculty Housing Revenue Bonds referred to in Section 403(B), secured by or payable from such Unrestricted Quasi-Endowment Funds.

(D) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 403(A), the University may from time to time withdraw from the Note Account such amounts as the University may have expended in issuing the Notes and in acquiring and installing a new telephone communications system for the University, provided that the aggregate amount which may be so withdrawn shall not exceed $7,500,000.

(E) Any moneys or investments remaining in the Note Account after payment in full of the principal of and interest on the Notes shall be used for any lawful purpose of the University, and may be withdrawn on instructions of an Authorized Officer confirmed in writing to the Depository.

Section 501. Covenants. The University hereby particularly covenants and agrees with the Noteholders, and makes provisions which shall be a part of the contract with such holders, to the effect and with the purpose as follows:

(A) The University shall duly and punctually pay or cause to be paid, but only from the sources herein provided, the principal of and interest on the Notes at the date and place and in the manner mentioned in the Notes, according to the true intent and meaning thereof.

(B) Upon the date of issuance of any of the Notes, all conditions, acts and things required by the Constitution or statutes of the Commonwealth of Virginia or the United States of America, or this Note Resolution to exist, to have happened and to have been performed precedent to or in the issuance of such Notes shall exist, have happened and have been performed.

(C) The University shall do and perform or cause to be done or performed all acts and things required to be done or performed by or on behalf of the University under the provisions of this Note Resolution in accordance with the terms of such provisions.

(D) The University shall undertake punctually all steps required under the Act to issue, sell and deliver bonds of the University in an amount sufficient when taken together with other moneys which may be available therefor, to pay the principal of the Notes as the same become due.

(E) The University shall keep full and complete records of all deposits to and withdrawals from the Note Account and of all other transactions relating to such Account and all investments and reinvestments of moneys in such Account and the interest and gain derived therefrom.

(F) The University covenants that it will do any and all things necessary to assure that interest on the Notes will be exempt from federal income taxation.

Section 601. Terms of Sale. The Notes shall be sold at either private sale or public sale or a combination thereof, as shall be determined by the Comptroller of the University, and if the Notes are to be sold at private sale, proposals for the purchase thereof, or if the Notes are to be sold at public sale, sealed bids for the purchase thereof in accordance with the terms of an official notice of sale, shall be received on such date and time as may be hereafter determined by the Comptroller. The Comptroller or other Authorized Officer of the University hereby are authorized to receive and consider all proposals for the purchase of the Notes, or sealed bids presented pursuant to an official notice of sale, as the case may be, and to award the sale of the Notes and enter into a contract or contracts of sale on the part of the University, in accordance with the provisions of the most favorable proposal or proposals or bid or bids received, determined as that proposal or proposals or bid or bids offering the lowest true effective interest rate to the University; provided, however, that the Authorized Officer of the University, in his discretion may reject all bids received and may waive any irregularity or informality with respect to any proposal or bid. No proposal or bid for less than all of the Notes or for a purchase price of less than $7,500,000 plus accrued interest shall be considered.

The University hereby approves, and the Comptroller of the University is hereby authorized to permit, the distribution of an Official Statement, in substantially the form of the Official Statement presented to this meeting with such changes, omissions, insertions and revisions as he shall deem advisable and made pursuant hereto, and to deliver such Official Statement on behalf of the University to the purchaser thereof.

Section 602. Delivery of the Notes. The Comptroller of the University is hereby authorized and directed to deliver the Notes, duly executed in accordance herewith, to or for the account of the purchaser thereof and to take any and all action necessary or appropriate to consummate the closing, all in accordance with this Note Resolution.

Section 701. Payment from Note Account. On or before November 6, 1981, the Depository shall pay over from the Note Account to United Virginia Bank, as depository under a resolution adopted by the Executive Committee of the Board on May 5, 1980, $7,500,000, to be applied to the payment of the principal of the University's $7,500,000 Bond Anticipation Notes of 1980 (the "1980 Notes") at their maturity on November 6, 1981.

Section 702. Disposition of Amounts Held in 1980 Note Account. After provision for the payment of all principal of and interest on the 1980 Notes at their maturity on November 6, 1981, United Virginia Bank, as depository under a resolution adopted by the Executive Committee of the Board on May 5, 1980, shall pay over to the Depository for deposit in the Note Account, the excess of $7,500,000 above the amount theretofore expended (other than as interest on the 1980 Notes) in issuing the 1980 Notes and in acquiring and installing a new telephone communications system for the University. All other moneys and assets held by United Virginia Bank as such depository shall be paid over and delivered to the University and held as part of its Unrestricted Quasi-Endowment Funds.

Section 703. System Note. Upon defeasance of the 1980 Notes, the Comptroller of the University shall execute the University's $7,500,000 special obligation promissory note in form presented to this meeting and substitute the same for the University's $7,500,000 note dated May 6, 1980 and held in the University's Endowment Fund.

Section 801. Defeasance. If the principal of, premium if any and interest on the Notes shall be paid in full when due, whether at maturity or by redemption, or if moneys and obligations of or guaranteed by the United States in an amount which, together with interest thereon, shall be sufficient to pay when due the principal of and premium, if any, on the Notes and interest on the Notes until due or until such earlier date as the University may have fixed for the redemption of the Notes, shall be held by the Depository as Paying Agent in a fund irrevocably assigned for the benefit of the holders of the Notes, then the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the University under this Note Resolution shall thereupon cease, terminate and become void and be discharged and satisfied, and thereupon all of the assets and funds pledged to secure the Notes shall forever be free and clear of such covenants. Amounts so held may include or be invested in obligations of or guaranteed by the United States, provided, however, that said investments mature not later than the due date, whether at maturity or by redemption, of the Notes. If the due date of the Notes shall have been fixed by the University as earlier than May 5, 1983, then at least 30 and not more than 60 days before such date the Depository shall in the name and at the expense of the University shall cause to be published the notice of redemption required by this Note Resolution.

Section 802. Depository and Paying Agents. The Depository and Paying Agent and the Co-Paying Agent shall be appointed by the Comptroller of the University at or before the delivery of the Notes, and shall signify their acceptance of the duties and obligations imposed upon them by this Note Resolution by executing and delivering to the University a written acceptance thereof. They may become the owner of any Notes and may otherwise deal with the University, with the same rights they would have if they were not Depository or Paying Agent or Co-Paying Agent.

Section 803. Performance of Obligations. The Rector, Vice President for Business and Finance, Secretary and Assistant Secretary are, and each of them hereby is, authorized to do and perform all things, and to execute all papers in the name of the University or otherwise, and to make all payments, necessary or desirable to the end that the University may carry out the purposes of this Note Resolution and the Notes.

Section 804. No Recourse on Notes. No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or the interest on the Notes or for any claim based thereon or on the Note Resolution against any Visitor or officer of the University or any person executing the Notes.

Section 805. Investment of the Note Account. Moneys in the Note Account, on instructions confirmed in writing by an Authorized Officer, shall be invested and reinvested by the Depository holding the same in Investment Obligations maturing in the amounts and at the times necessary to provide funds to make the payments to which such moneys are applicable, as determined by such Authorized Officer, but in no event later than May 5, 1983. In addition to the investment of moneys in Investment Obligations as aforesaid, the Depository shall, upon direction of an Authorized Officer, confirmed in writing, deposit moneys from the Note Account in interest-bearing time accounts or certificates of deposit with itself, or shall make other similar banking arrangements with itself or another bank, savings and loan association, trust company or financial institution. Such deposits, to the extent not insured by federal deposit insurance, shall be continuously secured in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Security for Public Deposits Act.

All instruments evidencing any such investments shall be retained in trust for the benefit of the holders of the Notes and shall be held in the physical possession of the Depository, or held for the Depository in safekeeping by another financial institution or a Federal Reserve Bank, or registered in the name of the Depository, in each such instance recognizing the fiduciary obligation of the Depository to the holders of the Notes and subject to the pledge hereof.

Section 806. Supplemental Resolutions. The University may, without the consent of or notice to any of the Noteholders, enter into a resolution or resolutions supplemental to this Note Resolution as shall not be inconsistent with the terms and provisions thereof for any one or more of the following purposes:

(a) to cure any ambiguity or formal defect or omission in this Note Resolution;

(b) to grant or confer upon the Noteholders any additional rights, remedies, powers or authority that may lawfully be granted to or conferred upon the Noteholders; and

(c) to subject to this Note Resolution additional revenues, properties or collateral.

Section 807. Remedies. In the event that the University shall default in the payment of principal of or interest on the Notes after the same shall become due, whether at maturity or by redemption, and such default shall continue for a period of thirty days, or in the event that the University shall fail or refuse to comply with the provisions of the Act, or shall default in any agreement made with the holders of the Notes, the holders of twenty-five per centum in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, by instrument or instruments filed with the Governor and proved or acknowledged in the same manner as a deed to be recorded, may appoint a trustee to represent the holders of the Notes for the purposes herein provided.

Such trustee may, and upon written request of the holders of twenty-five per centum in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding shall, in his or its own name:

(1) By mandamus or other suit, action or proceeding at law or in equity enforce all rights of the holders of the Notes, including the right to require the University and its Board of Visitors to carry out any agreements with the holders of the Notes and to perform it and their duties under the Act;

(2) Bring suit upon the Notes;

(3) By action or suit in equity, require the University to account as if it were the trustee of an express trust for the holders of the Notes;

(4) By action or suit in equity, enjoin any acts or things which may be unlawful or in violation of the rights of the holders of the Notes.

Such trustee shall, in addition to the foregoing, have and possess all of the powers necessary or appropriate for the exercise of any functions specifically set forth in the Act or incident to the general representation of the holders of the Notes represented by such trustee in the enforcement and protection of their rights.

Section 808. Effective Date. This Note Resolution shall be effective immediately.

$7,500,000 November 5, 1981 THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

hereby promises to pay, but only from the source hereinbelow provided, to the order of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") for the benefit of the endowment funds of the University the principal amount of $7,500,000 on July 1, 1991, or sooner as hereinbelow provided, together with interest as hereinbelow provided. The principal of this Note shall be payable in such amounts, not to exceed $7,500,000 in the aggregate, as shall correspond to the principal payments due on any obligations of the University payable from said endowment funds which may be issued to finance or refinance the costs of a telephone communications system for the University ("Obligations"), payable one day before the dates on which principal is payable on such Obligations; provided, however, that no principal amount shall be payable on this Note to pay the principal becoming due on any Obligations which other Obligations shall have been issued to refinance.

As interest on this Note, the University shall remit to its endowment funds that portion of the interest payable on the aforesaid Obligations corresponding to that portion of the said system that is operational at the time such interest shall accrue, all as certified by the University's Comptroller.

This Note is a special obligation of the University, payable solely from such moneys of the University as may be appropriated and available therefor. Except to the extent such moneys shall be appropriated and available, this Note shall not be a debt or obligation of the University and in no event shall this Note be deemed to constitute a debt, general obligation or pledge of the faith and credit, legal, moral or otherwise, of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

By\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Comptroller

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Clinch Valley College:Mr. Gerald A. Newland as Assistant Professor of Psychology, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Barry S. Rosenberg as Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective August 1, 1981.Mr. Clyde W. Sweet as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Joseph Willard as Associate Professor of Political Science, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.

CORRECTION IN THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. COLBY F. MCLEMORE
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mr. Colby F. McLemore, Clinch Valley College, as approved by the Board on June 5, 1981, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Colby F. McLemore as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member at Clinch Valley College be and she is hereby granted leave of absence:Mrs. Doris K. Hubbard, Assistant Professor of Physical Education, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to pursue another degree.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Barry S. Rosenberg as Associate Director of Admissions, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective August 1, 1981.

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. George E. Culbertson as Associate Dean of the College and Registrar and Director of Summer School, Clinch Valley College, for five years, effective July 1, 1981.

DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of the Division of Continuing Education:Mr. Charles M. Armstrong as Lecturer in Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Ms. Mary P. Hamm as Lecturer in Continuing Education, Division of Continuing Education, for the period September 1, 1981, through June 30, 1982.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-election to the faculty of the Division of Continuing Education:Mr. Milford H. Bryant as Professor of Education, Division of Continuing Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Gary T. Johnson as Assistant Professor of Continuing Education, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Randal A. Lemke as Assistant Professor of Education, Division of Continuing Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Thomas L. McKeon as Associate Professor of Continuing Education, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Gerd F. Mueller as Associate Professor of Continuing Education, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Neil McD. Shawen as Assistant Professor of Continuing Education, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSRE-APPOINTMENTS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Robert H. Crow as Director, Central Virginia Regional Office, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Gregory J. Pels as Assistant Director, Central Virginia Regional Office, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.

HAMPTON ROADS REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSRE-ELECTION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected:Mr. Corneal J. Mack as Assistant Professor of Continuing Education, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Corneal J. Mack as Director, Hampton Roads Regional Office, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.

LYNCHBURG REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERRE-APPOINTMENT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Robert J. Gwinn as Director, Lynchburg Regional Office, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERRE-APPOINTMENT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. William F. Lanier as Director, Northern Virginia Regional Office, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSELECTION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty of the Richmond Regional Office:Mr. Charles C. Todd, Jr., as Associate Professor of Continuing Education, Richmond Regional Office, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Charles C. Todd, Jr., as Director, Richmond Regional Office, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Charles E. Smith as Coordinator of the FBI Program, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERRE-APPOINTMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Gary F. Atkinson as Director, Roanoke Regional Office, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.

SOUTHWEST VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERRE-APPOINTMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Jack L. Mason as Director, Southwest Virginia Regional Office, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 12:05 p.m.

RCB:AGG:jb