 TEI to HTML

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA January 31, 1981
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:55 p.m., in Open Session on January 29, 1981, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., William M. Dudley, DuPont Guerry, III, Mrs. Linwood Holton, George C. Palmer, II, Ferman W. Perry, Fred G. Pollard, Frank S. Royal, Carl W. Smith, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., and E. Massie Valentine. Absent: D. French Slaughter, Jr., Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., Stephen C. Mahan, Howard W. McCall, Jr., and David N. Montague. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Avery Catlin, David A. Shannon, Ernest H. Ern, William H. Muller, and John J. Owen were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia reconvened in Open Session on January 31, 1981, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector D. French Slaughter, Jr., President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and Visitors C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., William M. Dudley, DuPont Guerry, III, Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., Mrs. Linwood Holton, Howard W. McCall, Jr., David N. Montague, George C. Palmer, II, Ferman W. Perry, Fred G. Pollard, Frank S. Royal, and E. Massie Valentine present. Absent: Stephen C. Mahan, Carl W. Smith and Glenn B. Updike, Jr. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Avery Catlin, David A. Shannon, William H. Muller, and Ernest H. Ern were present throughout the meeting. Mr. John J. Owen was absent from the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of October 4, 1980, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

The following motions were unanimously adopted by vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the full Board go into Executive Session for the consideration of legal matters.(b) That the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss the investment of public funds where competition bargaining is involved.(c) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the discussion and evaluation of University departments or schools.(d) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the discussion and consideration of personnel matters involving the assignment, promotion, salaries, and resignation of public employees.(e) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the discussion of the investment of public funds where competition or bargaining is involved, for the discussion or consideration of the disposition of publicly held property, and for the discussion and consideration of matters relating to gifts, bequests, and fund raising activities.

Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Opening Session continued at 10:58 a.m., on January 31, 1981.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. Gerhard Aumuller as Visiting Associate Professor of Anatomy, for the period January 16, 1981 through March 15, 1981.Miss Margaret A. Aycock as Associate Professor of Law, General Faculty, Law Library, for the period December 1, 1980 through November 30, 1983.Mr. Jeffrey T. Barth as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective October 1, 1980.Miss Larissa V. Brown as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Mr. Leroy D. Chadwick as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for one year, effective December 16, 1980.Dr. Mary W. Clark as Associate Professor of Orthopedics and Pediatrics, for three years, effective September 1, 1980.Mr. Edmond G. Cros as Visiting Professor of Spanish, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Dr. Leland L. Cross as Associate Professor of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective November 1, 1980.Mr. Jay W. Fox as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective April 1, 1981.Mr. Lincoln C. Gray as Research Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective October 1, 1980.Mrs. Martha R. Gregory as Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1980.Mr. Benton E. Gup as Visiting Virginia Bankers Association Professorship of Bank Management, School of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1980.Mr. Virendra Gupta as Visiting Associate Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Mrs. Lucy M. Hale as Instructor, General Faculty, for the period October 1, 1980 through June 30, 1983.Ms. Harmony Hammond as Lecturer in Art, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Dr. Carol R. Hassler as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for the period September 1, 1980 through June 30, 1981.Dr. Lennart Heimer as Professor of Neurology, effective November 1, 1980.Mr. Michael E. Hill as Instructor in Anatomy, for the period September 1, 1980 through April 15, 1981.Ms. Beverly M. Holder as Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period January 16, 1981 through June 30, 1981.Mr. Steen Krenk as Visiting Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Mr. Richard A. Lehne as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for two years, effective October 1, 1980.Miss Anne K. Myers as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Law Library, for three years, effective December 1, 1980.Mr. Blaine E. Norum as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Mr. George A. Overstreet, Jr. as Visiting Associate Professor of Commerce, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Dr. Sozos Papasozomenos as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Lawrence H. Phillips, II as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective January 1, 1981.Mr. Mahrdad Shahshahani as Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1980.Mr. Gary H. Shaw as Lecturer in Business Administration, Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, for the period December 1, 1980 through June 30, 1981.Miss Norma J. Shepelak as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for the period January 16, 1981, through May 31, 1982.Mr. Murray D. Smigel as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective November 16, 1980.Dr. Roy E. Smith as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective October 1, 1980.Mr. Willis J. Spaulding as Assistant Professor of Law, General Faculty, for the period October 1, 1980, through September 30, 1981.Mr. Raymond C. Tait as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1980 through December 31, 1980.Mr. William J. Thurneck as Associate Professor, General Faculty, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective January 1, 1981.Miss Kathryn L. Watson as Instructor, General Faculty, Darden School Library, for one year, effective October 1, 1980.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the named chairs as shown below:Dr. Guy M. Harbert, Jr., as Mamie A. Jessup Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Norman J. Knorr as James Carroll Flippin Professor of Medical Science, for the period January 1, 1981, through April 30, 1982.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Dieter G. Altenpohl as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, for one academic year, effective January 16, 1981.Mr. Edward L. Ayers as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Barbara M. Barclay as Assistant Professor of Music, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Francis L. Belloni as Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for the period January 1, 1981 through June 30, 1981.Mr. Ronald Biondini as Research Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period January 1, 1981 through June 30, 1981.Ms. Beth Bjorklund as Assistant Professor of German, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robin O. Bodkin as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Dr. Stuart T. Bray as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for the period April 1, 1981 through June 30, 1981.Ms. Carolyn J. Collins as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Philip H. Cooper as Associate Professor of Pathology and Associate Professor of Dermatology, for the period June 16, 1981 through June 30, 1981.Mr. Khirod C. Das as Visiting Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Dr. David Elkon as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for the period February 1, 1981 through June 30, 1981.Mr. Michael S. Forbes as Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for the period January 1, 1981 through March 31, 1982.Mr. William M. Frank as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Ernesto I. Freire-Hoyle as Visiting Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective August 1, 1980.Mr. Robert J. Hall as Assistant Professor of Education, for the period October 1, 1980 through May 31, 1981.Mr. Paul W. Humphreys as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Rebecca D. Kneedler as Assistant Professor of Education, for the period October 1, 1980 through May 31, 1981.Mr. Joel M. Linden as Research Assistant Professor of Physiology and Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for the period January 1, 1981 through June 30, 1981.Ms. Ann B. Loper as Assistant Professor of Education, for the period October 1, 1980 through May 31, 1981.Mr. Richard C. McCarty as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Gary B. Melton as Assistant Professor of Law, General Faculty, and Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective October 1, 1980.Mr. Frank D. Nidiffer, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1980.Mr. Stephen E. Plog as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Thomas W. Robisheaux as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Colonel Richard G. Rounseville as Professor of Military Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1980.Dr. Roger A. Ruth as Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology and Assistant Professor of Audiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1980.Ms. Gladys E. Saunders as Assistant Professor of French, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Werner K. Sensbach as Associate Professor of City Planning, General Faculty, School of Architecture, for three years, effective June 30, 1980.Mr. Costas M. Soukoulis as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Mr. Robert C. Stephenson as Research Associate Professor, General Faculty, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective December 1, 1980.Mr. John D. Wilkes as Visiting Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Mr. Richard G. Wilson as Associate Professor of Architectural History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Mrs. Ann R. Antrobus, Instructor, General Faculty to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period January 1, 1981 through June 30, 1983.Mr. Jaafar I. Aouad, Instructor in Comparative Medicine to Assistant Professor of Comparative Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Jack A. Blackburn, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, and Associate Dean of Admissions to Associate Professor, General Faculty, and Associate Dean of Admissions, for five years, effective January 1, 1981.Mr. Sydney S. Breese, Jr., Research Instructor in Anatomy to Research Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for one year, effective January 1, 1981.Dr. John Cole, Jr., Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1980.Ms. Mary L. Cooper, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Law Library to Associate Professor, General Faculty, Law Library, for the period December 1, 1980 through November 30, 1983.Dr. Richard J. Grayson, Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1980.Mr. Lawrence A. Groves, Instructor, General Faculty, and Assistant Dean of Admissions to Assistant Professor, General Faculty and Assistant Dean of Admissions, for three years, effective January 1, 1981.Dr. Adel B. Guirguis, Clinical Assistant Professor of Urology to Clinical Associate Professor of Urology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Robert M. Hedrick, Instructor, General Faculty, and Assistant Dean of Admissions to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, and Assistant Dean of Admissions, for three years, effective January 1, 1981.Dr. James P. King, Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1980.Dr. Leo E. Kirven, Jr., Clinical Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Clinical Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective October 1, 1980.Dr. Stacey E. Mills, Instructor in Pathology, part-time to Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Miss Jean L. Rayburn, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, and Associate Dean of Admissions to Associate Professor, General Faculty, and Associate Dean of Admissions, for five years, effective January 1, 1981.Dr. John B. Sydnor, Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1980.Mrs. Sylvia V. Terry, Instructor, General Faculty, and Assistant Dean of Admissions to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, and Assistant Dean of Admissions, for three years, effective January 1, 1981.Mrs. Brownie S. Tucker, Instructor, General Faculty, and Assistant Dean of Admissions to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, and Assistant Dean of Admissions, for three years, effective January 1, 1981.Mrs. W. Hope Wilson, Instructor, General Faculty, and Assistant Dean of Admissions to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, and Assistant Dean of Admissions, for three years, effective January 1, 1981.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Ms. Melinda J. Blauvelt, Assistant Professor of Art, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981, to conduct research.Mr. Clifford E. Brubaker, Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for the period September 1, 1980 through May 31, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. Thomas I. Crowell, Professor of Chemistry, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981, in accordance with the Board of Visitors' approved half-time retirement agreement.Mr. Eleftherios N. Economou, Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981, for research at the University of Lausanne.Mr. Hupert P. Hooper, Associate Professor of Commerce, for one semester, effective January 15, 1981, to do research and writing.Mr. John A. James, Associate Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981, to accept visiting position at Stanford University.Mr. Harold B. Johnson, Jr., Associate Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981, to conduct research.Mr. Alden R. Kuhlthau, Professor of Civil Engineering, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981, to work with the state and local communities.Miss Elizabeth L. Langhorne, Assistant Professor of Art History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981, to conduct research.Mr. Roland H. Simon, Assistant Professor of French, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981, to teach at Princeton University.Mr. Carl Trindle, Associate Professor of Chemistry, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981, to conduct research.

CHANGE OF TITLE
---------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Dr. James C. Ballenger, from Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period November 1, 1980 through August 15, 1982.Mr. Jeffrey T. Barth, from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry and Assistant Professor of Neurological Surgery, for the period November 18, 1980 through September 30, 1983.Mr. Keith J. Crocker, from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics to Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period January 1, 1981 through May 31, 1984.Mr. Ira Dye, from Visiting Professor of Civil Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Research Professor, General Faculty, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period December 14, 1980 through June 30, 1984.Mr. William K. Harper, from Rust Visiting Professor of Business Administration to Rust Professor of Business Administration, for one year, effective September 1, 1980.Ms. Eileen A. Hogan, from Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School to Assistant Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1980.Mr. David B. Magleby, from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Research Associate, Institute of Government to Assistant Professor of Government and Research Associate, Institute of Government, for the period December 6, 1980 through May 31, 1983.Mr. Waldo E. Martin, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of History to Assistant Professor of History, for the period October 20, 1980 through May 31, 1984.Mr. J. Kendall Middaugh, II, from Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School to Assistant Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1980.Mr. John T. Monahan, from Professor of Law and Psychology to Professor of Law, Psychology and Legal Medicine, effective October 1, 1980.Mr. Richard Odessey, from Assistant Professor of Physiology to Assistant Professor of Physiology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective June 1, 1981.Mr. Robert F. Turner, III, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education to Assistant Professor of Education, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Mr. Larry A. Wolfe, from Assistant Professor of Education to Assistant Professor of Education and Assistant Professor of Medicine, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1980.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mrs. Edith K. Mosher, Professor of Education, effective January 15, 1981. Mrs. Mosher has been a member of the faculty since 1968.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Jeffrey T. Barth, Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, effective September 30, 1980, to accept a full time position in the Department of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry.Mr. Michael I. Bernhard, Research Assistant Professor of Surgery, effective December 29, 1980, to accept another position.Mr. Jeffrey L. Binder, Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective August 31, 1980, to accept another position.Dr. Michael H. Boblitz, Assistant Professor of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, effective October 15, 1980, to transfer to an administrative position.Ms. Mary J. Culnan, Assistant Professor of Commerce, effective January 15, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Prasanta Das, Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective January 1, 1981, to accept another position.Ms. Fedwa M. Douglas, Assistant Professor of Arabic, effective January 15, 1981, to accept another position.Dr. William S. Evans, Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective December 31, 1980, to be a Post-doctoral Fellow in the Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism.Mr. Lei Y. Fager, Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, effective September 30, 1980, for personal reasons.Dr. John M. Hiebert, Associate Professor of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery, effective December 15, 1980, to accept another position.Mr. Steven J. Hillenius, Assistant Professor of Physics, effective January 15, 1981, to accept a position with Bell Telephone Laboratories.Ms. Marylin S. James, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective January 5, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. Julian C. Juergensmeyer, Visiting Professor of Law, effective January 15, 1981, for personal reasons.Mrs. Elisabeth G. Kallne, Research Assistant Professor of Physics, effective September 30, 1980, to accept a position with the Smithsonian Institution.Dr. Louis H. Pobereskin, Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, effective December 31, 1980, to accept a position in the Department of Neurosurgery, Cambridge, England.Mr. Barry Portnoy, Assistant Professor of Education, effective January 15, 1981, to accept another position.Dr. Ernest C. Reed, Jr., Clinical Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective December 15, 1980, to accept another position.Dr. Anthony Shaw, Professor of Surgery, effective December 31, 1980, to accept another position.Mr. Kenneth J. Singleton, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective May 31, 1981, to accept a position at Carnegie-Mellon University.Dr. John C. Trefil, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, effective September 29, 1980, for personal reasons.Mr. Ronald V. Wade, Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective December 31, 1980, for personal reasons.Mrs. Lynn M. Wiley, Assistant Professor of Anatomy, effective December 31, 1980, to accept another position.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Richard R. Abidin, Jr., as Director, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for one year, effective September 1, 1980.Mrs. Ann R. Antrobus, as Associate Registrar, for for the period January 1, 1981 through June 30, 1983Mr. Ira Dye, as Director of the Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period December 14, 1980 through June 30, 1984Mr. Russell Grimes, as Chairman of the Department of Chemistry, for three years, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Guy Harbert, as Director of the Division of Maternal and Fetal Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,, for five years, effective January 1, 1981.Mr. Michael W. Jennings, as Director of the Summer Language Institute, for the period November 1, 1980 through July 31, 1981Mr. Werner K. Sensbach, as Director of University Planning, for three years, effective June 30, 1980.Mr. Robert C. Stephenson, as Associate Director, Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective December 1, 1980.Dr. Eugene M. Wright, as Vice Chairman of Comparative Medicine, for the period November 1, 1980 through June 30, 1983Mr. Peter L. Wyeth, as Associate Campaign Director, for three years, effective February 1, 1981.

DEATH OF MR. MILTON D. JACOBSON
-------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. DONALD H. SHOEMAKER
--------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FRANK TALBOTT, JR. VISITING PROFESSORSHIP
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established at the University of Virginia, a Chair to be known as the Frank Talbott, Jr. Visiting Professorship, which is to be assigned annually to a particular department or school within the University by the Provost for the purpose of bringing a distinguished scholar to such department or school as a visiting professor. The Board is grateful to the Alumni Board of Trustees who made possible the establishment of this Chair.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LANGBOURNE M. WILLIAMS PROFESSORSHIP IN AMERICAN HISTORY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Langbourne M. Williams Professorship in American History. The Board is grateful to the Freeport Minerals Company who made possible the establishment of this Chair.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE RALPH A. BEETON PROFESSORSHIP IN FREE ENTERPRISE IN THE MCINTIRE SCHOOL OF COMMERCE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the McIntire School of Commerce a Chair to be known as the Ralph A. Beeton Professorship in Free Enterprise. The Board is grateful to the Tidewater Research Foundation, Incorporated, and to the Gould Foundation which made possible the establishment of this Chair.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOHN A. EWALD, JR. DISTINGUISHED VISITING PROFESSORSHIP IN THE SCHOOL OF LAW
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Law a Chair to be known as the John A. Ewald, Jr. Distinguished Visiting Professorship in the School of Law. The Board is grateful to Mr. John A. Ewald who made possible the establishment of this Chair.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTS
----------------------

VVKR Incorporation Alexandria, Virginia

Gilmer Hall Addition Pre-planning only

LBC&W Alexandria, Virginia

Clinical Chemistry Lab Renovation

Moseley-Hening Richmond, Virginia

Sponsors Hall Addition Pre-planning Only

Moseley-Hening Richmond, Virginia

Outpatient Department Renovation

Shriver and Holland Norfolk, Virginia

Medical Research Building

Moseley-Hening Richmond, Virginia

Eye Clinic Renovations

Moseley-Hening Richmond, Virginia

Microbiology and Hematology Lab Renovations

Edward L. Barnes New York

Stadium Road Housing for 650 Students

Shriver and Holland Norfolk, Virginia

Housing for 500 Students Pre-planning only

Wilbur Smith and Associates Richmond, Virginia

Central Parking Garage for 300 cars Pre-planning only

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following architectural firms be and they are hereby approved for the projects indicated: VVKR Incorporation Alexandria, VirginiaGilmer Hall Addition Pre-planning onlyLBC&W Alexandria, VirginiaClinical Chemistry Lab RenovationMoseley-Hening Richmond, VirginiaSponsors Hall Addition Pre-planning OnlyMoseley-Hening Richmond, VirginiaOutpatient Department RenovationShriver and Holland Norfolk, VirginiaMedical Research BuildingMoseley-Hening Richmond, VirginiaEye Clinic RenovationsMoseley-Hening Richmond, VirginiaMicrobiology and Hematology Lab RenovationsEdward L. Barnes New YorkStadium Road Housing for 650 StudentsShriver and Holland Norfolk, VirginiaHousing for 500 Students Pre-planning onlyWilbur Smith and Associates Richmond, VirginiaCentral Parking Garage for 300 cars Pre-planning only

MODIFICATION OF INVESTMENT GUIDELINES
-------------------------------------

The following resolution, recommended by the Audit Committee, was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the investment guidelines of June, 1979, be and they are hereby amended to set the equity ceiling at 85%.

APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL REPORT
----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the 1979-80 Financial Report for the University of Virginia as presented by the Vice President for Business and Finance and the University Comptroller is hereby accepted as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF BROKERS AND FINDERS LIST
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the list of Brokers and Finders for security loans presented by the Vice President for Business and Finance be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF STATEMENT CONCERNING UNIVERSITY INVESTMENTS IN COMPANIES WITH SUBSIDIARIES OR AFFILIATES IN SOUTH AFRICA
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following statement was approved by a divided vote. All Visitors present voted in favor except Visitor Holton who voted against the motion for approval of the statement.

Questions regarding investments in United States companies, subsidiaries or affiliates with operations in South Africa have been presented to the University in its capacity as a shareholder by the Student Council and others associated with the University who have a concern over the racial policies of the South African government. Specifically, the Board of Visitors has been requested to indicate its policy on divestment from the endowment of securities of U. S. companies with operations in South Africa. The Board, through the Finance Committee and the University's financial administration, has continuously monitored its investments in U. S. companies with operations in South Africa for the past three years. The report of the Vice President for Business and Finance dated January 19, 1981, provides a summary of the recent activities in this regard.

Responsibility for investment of the University's endowment funds rests with the Board of Visitors and particularly the Finance Committee. In meeting its fiduciary responsibility, the Board seeks to earn a satisfactory return on invested funds consistent with a prudent level of risk. Additionally, the Board seeks to manage endowments in harmony with the following considerations:

1\. The University is a community of scholars with a rich heritage of diversity. As a public institution it is answerable to a wide variety of constituencies.

2\. The University requires a sturdy and stable economic base to carry out its educational mission. Relationships with those who provide endowment funds to the University, and the results of endowment investment, have an important part to play in levels of tuition students pay, the level of faculty salaries, and the quality and quantity of support services that the teaching and research faculty receive.

The Board has engaged professional investment advisors to select those investments which in their judgement satisfy the investment guidelines established by the Finance Committee. Managers are evaluated on their ability to serve the University's economic interests. The Board depends upon its advisors to exercise good judgement in selecting investments in companies which are responsible corporate citizens, for as a practical matter the Board would have no way to monitor each company's position over the wide variety of possible social, economic and political issues.

In fulfilling its fiduciary responsibility, the Board must act in a prudent manner on all investment matters. While the cost of divestment and exclusion of approximately 300 U. S. companies from the endowment investment universe cannot be precisely ascertained, it is apparent from the report of the Vice President for Business and Finance that the potential cost and the increased investment risk are substantial.

In carrying out its mission, it is the Board's view that the University should not take a position with respect to issues of a political character. The Board believes that the political dimension of the act of divestment would in itself raise significant questions of fairness and consistency apart from its effects on the ability of the University to carry out its central purpose. The Board, however, is concerned with regard to the integrity and policies of organizations and corporations with which it associates in the course of its activities. For example, assurance of a corporation's commitment to equal opportunity is a prerequisite to execution of a contract with the corporation.

Similarly in investment of endowment funds in corporations doing business in South Africa, the University, in order to be informed, takes note of whether a corporation subscribes to the Sullivan Principles, and requests of corporations which do not, a statement of their policies regarding equal opportunity regardless of race in the course of their South African operations. Failure of a corporation to set forth a program of an affirmative nature in this regard will be reported to the Finance Committee for its consideration and report to the Board. To date no such failure has occurred.

There are many other issues which to many may not seem as compelling but which, at the same time, are considered by others to be of importance. However, it is the Board's view that fundamental questions, such as the desirability of discouraging or prohibiting American business presence in South Africa, should be decided through the political process.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

A report on construction was distributed. Thirty-eight projects are in the planning stage. The largest project under construction is the construction of the Undergraduate Readers Library.

REPORT ON LEGISLATIVE MATTERS
-----------------------------

The President outlined some of the matters before the General Assembly that directly affect the University. One of these is a Bill authorizing the construction of a 650 student housing unit. He also discussed a Bill that would require the Governor to appoint a currently enrolled student to the Board, and a Bill on the Governance and control of State institutions in the Commonwealth. He advised that future requests to the General Assembly will emphasize faculty salaries, deferred maintenance, and upgrading the University's computer facilities.

RESOLUTION OPPOSING LEGISLATION WHICH WOULD MAKE IT MANDATORY FOR THE GOVERNOR TO APPOINT A CURRENTLY ENROLLED STUDENT TO THE BOARD
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has noted the introduction of legislation relating to student membership on the Board;BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Board is opposed to any legislation which would require the Governor to appoint a student to the Board of Visitors.

NAMING THE PHYSICS BUILDING THE JESSE WAKEFIELD BEAMS LABORATORY OF PHYSICS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the structure presently occupied by the Department of Physics be and it is hereby named the Jesse Wakefield Beams Laboratory of Physics.

DEFERRAL OF PLANNING FOR STUDENT HOUSING AT BIRDWOOD
----------------------------------------------------

The President explained that the Buildings and Grounds Committee had voted to defer planning for residential housing at Birdwood on November 13, 1980.

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the development of student housing on the Birdwood site would require extensive development of utilities, access roads, faculty housing, and support facilities beyond that required for sites on the central Grounds; andWHEREAS, the cost estimates for the Birdwood development have increased substantially due to inflation;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that planning for student housing at the Birdwood site be and it is hereby deferred at this time.

APPROVAL OF THE 1982-84 UNIVERSITY DIVISION PROGRAM PROPOSAL
------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the 1982-84 University Division Program Proposal be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1982-1984 HOSPITAL DIVISION PROGRAM PROPOSAL
------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the 1982-84 Hospital Division Program Proposal be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1982-1984 BLUE RIDGE HOSPITAL DIVISION PROGRAM PROPOSAL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the 1982-84 Blue Ridge Hospital Division Program Proposal be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1982-1984 CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE PROGRAM PROPOSAL
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the 1982-84 Clinch Valley College Program Proposal be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1982-1984 DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION AND PUBLIC SERVICE BUREAUS PROGRAM PROPOSAL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the 1982-1984 Division of Continuing Education and Public Service Bureaus Program Proposal be and it is hereby approved.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

University of Virginia Hospital:

Bad Debts

$1,026,373.58

Free Service to Counties and Cities

$2,692,143.36

\--------------

Total

$3,718,516.94

Blue Ridge Hospital Division:

Free Service to Counties and Cities

$340,203.20

Free Service for Medically Indigent Acute Inpatients

10,396.09

\--------------

Total

$350,599.29

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts listed on University of Virginia Hospital schedule numbers 383 through 391 for the months of August, September, and October 1980, totaling $3,718,516.94, and Blue Ridge Hospital Division schedule numbers 449 through 451 for the months of September 1980, and October 1980, totaling $350,599.29 consisting of the following: University of Virginia Hospital:Bad Debts$1,026,373.58Free Service to Counties and Cities$2,692,143.36--------------Total$3,718,516.94Blue Ridge Hospital Division:Free Service to Counties and Cities$340,203.20Free Service for Medically Indigent Acute Inpatients10,396.09--------------Total$350,599.29 RESOLVED FURTHER that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of the debts represented by such accounts.

INCREASE IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE
------------------------------------

Actual 1980-81

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1981-82

Student Activity Fee

$12.00

$ 4.00

33.3%

$16.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Student Activity Fee applicable to the University Division be and it is hereby approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1981: Actual 1980-81Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1981-82Student Activity Fee$12.00$ 4.0033.3%$16.00

INCREASE IN SUMMER TUITION AND FEES FOR 1981
--------------------------------------------

1980

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1981

FULL TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEE

Registration

$ 6.00

$ --

\--

$ 6.00

Diploma

1.00

\--

\--

1.00

Intramurals

4.00

\--

\--

4.00

Newcomb Hall

5.00

\--

\--

5.00

Drama

1.00

\--

\--

1.00

Student Health

21.00

2.00

9.5%

23.00

Transportation

5.00

2.00

40.0%

7.00

TOTAL

$43.00

$ 4.00

9.3%

$47.00

PART TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEE

Registration

$ 6.00

$ --

\--

$ 6.00

Diploma

1.00

\--

\--

1.00

Intramurals

1.75

\--

\--

1.75

Newcomb Hall

2.25

\--

\--

2.25

Drama

.50

\--

\--

.50

Student Health

16.00

1.00

6.2%

17.00

Transportation

2.50

1.00

40.0%

3.50

$30.00

$ 2.00

6.6%

$32.00

TUITION

Virginian (per semester hour)

$32.00

$ 3.00

9.4%

$35.00

Non-Virginian (per semester hour)

64.00

6.00

9.4%

70.00

Thesis/Dissertation Research

90.00

15.00

16.7%

105.00

APPELLATE JUDGES PROGRAM

$288.00

$27.00

9.4%

$315.00

NON-RESIDENT FEE

Proposed fee is equal to the Board approved fee for the Regular Session

$ 15.00

$ --

\--

$ 15.00

1980

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1981

Lab Fee and Field Trip

$ 20.00

$ 5.00

25.0%

$25.00

Insurance

2.00

\--

\--

2.00

Research:

Virginian (pre-doctoral)

90.00

15.00

16.7%

105.00

Non-virginian (pre-doctoral)

170.00

40.00

23.5%

210.00

Post doctoral Laboratory Fee:

Virginian

175.00

25.00

14.3%

200.00

Non-Virginian

225.00

(25.00)

(11.1%)

200.00

MT. LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Each Person 17 years of age & older

$225.00

\--

\--

$225.00

Each Person 10-16 years of age

150.00

\--

\--

150.00

Each Person 9 years of age & younger

90.00

\--

\--

90.00

MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

6/1/81 - 8/31/81

Dormitories

$ 45.00

$ 5.00

11.1%

$ 50.00

Cottages

Laing Singles

45.00

5.00

11.1%

50.00

Laing Center

60.00

10.00

16.7%

70.00

North

60.00

\--

\--

60.00

South

60.00

\--

\--

60.00

Northwest

72.50

(12.50)

(17.2%)

60.00

West

72.50

(2.50)

(3.4%)

70.00

Hentz-Mohr

90.00

\--

\--

90.00

with kitchen

\--

N/A

N/A

110.00

Clayton

65.00

25.00

38.5%

90.00

Catesby

65.00

10.00

15.4%

75.00

Gattinger

65.00

10.00

15.4%

75.00

Michaux

77.50

12.50

16.1%

90.00

with kitchen

\--

N/A

N/A

110.00

Washington

65.00

15.00

23.1%

80.00

Banister

65.00

15.00

23.1%

80.00

LeConte

65.00

15.00

23.1%

80.00

Harict

65.00

15.00

23.1%

80.00

Schoew

65.00

15.00

23.1%

80.00

Maphis

65.00

15.00

23.1%

80.00

Holbrook

65.00

15.00

23.1%

80.00

Mitchell

65.00

15.00

23.1%

80.00

Rafinesque

65.00

5.00

7.7%

70.00

Other Rental Plans

Rafinesque -

September - May: $10/night for 1 or 2 persons or $60/week; $3/night for each additional person.

September - November and March - May: $200/month

December - February: $225/month

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Summer Session fees be and they are hereby increased as follows, effective beginning with the Summer Session of 1981: 1980Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1981FULL TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEERegistration$ 6.00$ ----$ 6.00Diploma1.00----1.00Intramurals4.00----4.00Newcomb Hall5.00----5.00Drama1.00----1.00Student Health21.002.009.5%23.00Transportation5.002.0040.0%7.00TOTAL$43.00$ 4.009.3%$47.00PART TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEERegistration$ 6.00$ ----$ 6.00Diploma1.00----1.00Intramurals1.75----1.75Newcomb Hall2.25----2.25Drama.50----.50Student Health16.001.006.2%17.00Transportation2.501.0040.0%3.50$30.00$ 2.006.6%$32.00TUITIONVirginian (per semester hour)$32.00$ 3.009.4%$35.00Non-Virginian (per semester hour)64.006.009.4%70.00Thesis/Dissertation Research90.0015.0016.7%105.00APPELLATE JUDGES PROGRAM$288.00$27.009.4%$315.00NON-RESIDENT FEEProposed fee is equal to the Board approved fee for the Regular Session$ 15.00$ ----$ 15.00 The Summer Session registration fee and tuition rates also apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station. In addition the following special fees apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station: 1980Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1981Lab Fee and Field Trip$ 20.00$ 5.0025.0%$25.00Insurance2.00----2.00Research:Virginian (pre-doctoral)90.0015.0016.7%105.00Non-virginian (pre-doctoral)170.0040.0023.5%210.00Post doctoral Laboratory Fee:Virginian175.0025.0014.3%200.00Non-Virginian225.00(25.00)(11.1%)200.00MT. LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)Each Person 17 years of age & older$225.00----$225.00Each Person 10-16 years of age150.00----150.00Each Person 9 years of age & younger90.00----90.00MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)6/1/81 - 8/31/81Dormitories$ 45.00$ 5.0011.1%$ 50.00CottagesLaing Singles45.005.0011.1%50.00Laing Center60.0010.0016.7%70.00North60.00----60.00South60.00----60.00Northwest72.50(12.50)(17.2%)60.00West72.50(2.50)(3.4%)70.00Hentz-Mohr90.00----90.00with kitchen--N/AN/A110.00Clayton65.0025.0038.5%90.00Catesby65.0010.0015.4%75.00Gattinger65.0010.0015.4%75.00Michaux77.5012.5016.1%90.00with kitchen--N/AN/A110.00Washington65.0015.0023.1%80.00Banister65.0015.0023.1%80.00LeConte65.0015.0023.1%80.00 Harict65.0015.0023.1%80.00Schoew65.0015.0023.1%80.00Maphis65.0015.0023.1%80.00Holbrook65.0015.0023.1%80.00Mitchell65.0015.0023.1%80.00Rafinesque65.005.007.7%70.00Other Rental PlansRafinesque -September - May: $10/night for 1 or 2 persons or $60/week; $3/night for each additional person.September - November and March - May: $200/monthDecember - February: $225/month

INCREASE IN STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 1981-1982
-----------------------------------------------

Facility

1980-81 Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1981-82 Per Student Per Session

DORMITORIES

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Double Room

$ 784

$ 76

9.7%

$ 860

Monroe Hill

Double Room

$ 860

$ 85

9.9%

$ 945

Triple Room

$ 670

$ 70

10.4%

$ 740

McCormick Road

Double Room

$ 736, $704

$ 59, $91

8.0%, 12.9%

$ 795

Small Double Room

$ 604

$ 81

13.4%

$ 685

Lawn

Small Single

$ 854

$ 86

10.1%

$ 940

Small Single (no fireplace)

$ 800

$ 80

10.0%

$ 880

Regular Single

$ 890

$ 90

10.1%

$ 980

Range

Regular Single

$ 870

$ 85

9.8%

$ 955

Crackerbox

Double Room

$ 804

$ 81

10.1%

$ 885

Mary Munford/Roberta Gwathmey

Double Room

$ 780

$ 80

10.3%

$ 860

Single Room

$ 870

$ 90

10.3%

$ 960

APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENT

Copeley Hill Phase III & IV, Nurses, Lambeth Field

Two Bedroom

$ 956

$ 94

9.8%

$1050

Three Bedroom

$ 900

$ 90

10.0%

$ 990

APARTMENTS - FAMILY

1980-81 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1981-82 Per Month

Copeley Hill, Phases I & II

One Bedroom

$200 mo.

$20

10.0%

$220 mo.

Two Bedroom

$215 mo.

$25

11.6%

$240 mo.

Three Bedroom

$240 mo.

$25

10.4%

$265 mo.

University Gardens

One Bedroom

$195 mo.

$20

10.3%

$215 mo.

Two Bedroom

$210 mo.

$25

11.9%

$235 mo.

These rates include all utility costs, TV cable in apartments and post office box rental where applicable.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that rental increases for student housing facilities be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective beginning with the Session 1981-82: Facility1980-81 Per Student Per SessionAmount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1981-82 Per Student Per SessionDORMITORIESAlderman/Observatory HousesDouble Room$ 784$ 769.7%$ 860Monroe HillDouble Room$ 860$ 859.9%$ 945Triple Room$ 670$ 7010.4%$ 740McCormick RoadDouble Room$ 736, $704$ 59, $918.0%, 12.9%$ 795Small Double Room$ 604$ 8113.4%$ 685LawnSmall Single$ 854$ 8610.1%$ 940Small Single (no fireplace)$ 800$ 8010.0%$ 880Regular Single$ 890$ 9010.1%$ 980RangeRegular Single$ 870$ 859.8%$ 955CrackerboxDouble Room$ 804$ 8110.1%$ 885Mary Munford/Roberta GwathmeyDouble Room$ 780$ 8010.3%$ 860Single Room$ 870$ 9010.3%$ 960APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENTCopeley Hill Phase III & IV, Nurses, Lambeth FieldTwo Bedroom$ 956$ 949.8%$1050Three Bedroom$ 900$ 9010.0%$ 990APARTMENTS - FAMILY1980-81 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1981-82 Per MonthCopeley Hill, Phases I & IIOne Bedroom$200 mo.$2010.0%$220 mo.Two Bedroom$215 mo.$2511.6%$240 mo.Three Bedroom$240 mo.$2510.4%$265 mo.University GardensOne Bedroom$195 mo.$2010.3%$215 mo.Two Bedroom$210 mo.$2511.9%$235 mo.These rates include all utility costs, TV cable in apartments and post office box rental where applicable.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON APPROVAL OF AN OPTION FOR THE SALE OF PROPERTY IN NEW ORLEANS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee, acting for the Board, had approved on December 30, 1980, a six month option for the sale of property in Square 230, First Municipal District, City of New Orleans, for $2,829,776.00

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON THE APPROVAL OF THE PH.D. PROGRAM IN NURSING
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee, acting for the Board, approved the Ph.D. Program in Nursing on December 3, 1980. The Board of Visitors approved planning for the Program in December 1979.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON A PROGRAM FOR HOUSING 650 STUDENTS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee, acting for the Board, approved on January 22, 1981, a program for the construction of housing for 650 students at a total project cost of $16,440,000, of which $2,640,000 will be provided from the University General Unrestricted Fund primarily for the preparation of the site. It also authorized the President to propose to the General Assembly that there be included in House Bill 36, a $13,800,000 bond issue for permanent financing of the project.

ADOPTION OF POLICY STATEMENT CONCERNING INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR PROFESSIONAL DESIGN SERVICES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following policy statement concerning liability insurance coverage for professional design services provided by architects and engineers employed by the University of Virginia be and it is hereby adopted.

POLICY STATEMENT CONCERNING INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR PROFESSIONAL DESIGN SERVICES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In order to protect the interests of the University in new construction, renovation, and maintenance and repair projects designed by professional architect and engineering firms, it shall be the policy of the University to require these professional firms to carry adequate liability insurance with companies satisfactory to the University during the construction period and throughout the five-year Virginia Statue of Limitations period following the completion of construction.

The amount and type of insurance coverage considered to be adequate may vary on a project-by-project basis dependent upon the nature of the project and the degree of risk deemed to exist. Normally, the liability insurance provided by general professional risk coverage on a "Claims Made" basis will be adequate, provided that the policy limit of coverage is sufficient in consideration of the degree of risk and the total construction cost for the project. For projects in which the risk of a major loss is relatively high, coverage by a "Single Project" policy may be required.

The required amount of liability coverage established for each project may vary from an amount of not less than 25% of the construction cost for projects in which a low degree of risk of a major loss exists, to a maximum amount equal to the project construction cost for relatively high risk projects. Deductible limits shall be consistent with the professional firm's financial capacity.

Professional firms engaged by the University for design services shall be required to maintain the established insurance coverage throughout the construction period and the five-year Statue of Limitations period following completion of the work, and shall be required to provide an annual certificate of coverage throughout this period.

Normally, purchase of adequate liability insurance coverage shall be the responsibility of the professional firm. However, when the cost of coverage required for a high risk project would impose an unreasonable cost burden on the professional firm relative to the standard professional fee for the project, contract negotiation may provide for payment of supplemental insurance costs by the University outside the normal professional fee.

The acceptability of the insurance company shall be determined after taking into consideration the reserves, surplus and financial condition of the company.

EXCHANGE OF PARCEL OF LAND AT BLUE RIDGE HOSPITAL FOR AN ADJOINING PARCEL
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the exchange of the property described below be and it is hereby approved and recommended to the Governor.On a plat of William S. Roudabush dated August 21, 1980, under file number 4935A, Parcels C and Cl, a part of the Blue Ridge Hospital property to be exchanged for Parcel D, the property of Ann Robins Haskell.

ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
------------------------------------------

The Board accepted $1,108,200 in gifts over the period September 12, 1980, through December 31, 1980, and $8,777,400 in sponsored programs over the period September 1, 1980, through November 30, 1980. Certain gifts received in the last days of 1980 are not included in this report.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERELECTION
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Peter D. Genovese as Instructor in Library Science, Clinch Valley College, for the period September 1, 1980 through June 30, 1981.

DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERELECTION
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Francis C. Biasiolli as Assistant Professor of Continuing Education, Division of Continuing Education, for the period September 15, 1980, through June 30, 1983.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 11:18 a.m.

RCB:jb