 TEI to HTML

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA January 27, 1984
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:50 a.m., in Open Session on January 26, 1984, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., and John S. Battle, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., Joshua P. Darden, Jr., William M. Dudley, David N. Montague, Ferman W. Perry, Carl W. Smith, James L. Trinkle, E. Massie Valentine, Neal O. Wade, Jr., Edgar N. Weaver, and Gordon F. Willis. Absent: Henry A. Dudley and William R. Harvey. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., William H. Muller, Raymond M. Haas, Marion B. Peavey, and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia reconvened in Open Session on January 27, 1984, at 2:40 p.m., in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., John S. Battle, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., Joshua P. Darden, Jr., William M. Dudley, William R. Harvey, David N. Montague, Ferman W. Perry, Carl W. Smith, James L. Trinkle, E. Massie Valentine, Edgar N. Weaver, and Gordon F. Willis. Absent: Henry A. Dudley and Neal O. Wade, Jr. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., George G. Grattan, IV, William H. Muller, Ernest H. Ern, Raymond M. Haas, Marion B. Peavey, and Edwin E. Floyd were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of October 8, 1983, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

The following motions were unanimously adopted by vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Special Committee on Fraternity and Sorority Housing go into Executive Session for the following reason: to discuss or consider the condition, acquisition, or use of real property for a public purpose if that discussion could affect the value of property owned by or desirable for ownership by the University as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a)(2) of the Virginia Code.(b) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 20 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider the condition, acquisition, or use of real property for a public purpose if that discussion could affect the value of property owned by or desirable for ownership by the University as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a)(2) of the Virginia Code.(c) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for discussion of Item Number 19 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion of investing public funds where competition or bargaining is involved when if made public initially the University's financial interests would be adversely affected as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a)(5) of the Virginia Code.(d) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 12 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider personnel matters involving the employment, assignment, appointment, promotion, performance, salaries and resignation of University officers, appointees or employees, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a)(1) of the Virginia Code.(e) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 13 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion and evaluation of the performance of University departments or schools if individual employees might be affected by the evaluation.(f) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for consultation with legal counsel pertaining to actual and potential litigation, or other legal matters within the jurisdiction of the Board, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a)(6) of the Virginia Code.

Following a recess for Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open session continued at 2:40 p.m., on Friday, January 27, 1984.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Mark Altshuller as Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Dr. Christopher M. Asplin as Associate Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective December 1, 1983.Mr. Frederic L. Backfield as Instructor in Philosophy, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Mr. James M. Beach as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Dr. Martin E. Bloch as Assistant Professor of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery and Assistant Professor of Dentistry, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Tony L. Crunk as Lecturer in Commerce, for one year, effective January 1, 1984.Ms. Sherry K. Fisher as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Betty A. Fletcher as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period October 1, 1983 through May 31, 1984.Mr. Charles C. Geraty, III as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1983 through June 30, 1984.Ms. Joyce A. Green as Instructor in Pharmacology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Robert J. Hauck as Lecturer in Religious Studies, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Mr. Bary L. Johnson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for one year, effective January 1, 1984.Mr. Roland E. Johnson as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective October 15, 1983.Mr. Alex M. Johnson, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Law, for four academic years, effective January 16, 1984.Mr. Robert E. Kilkuskie as Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mrs. Angelena C. Le Blanc as Lecturer in Law, for the period October 16, 1983 through May 31, 1984.Dr. Kenneth L. Marcella as Instructor in Comparative Medicine, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Daniel A. Montgomery as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period October 19, 1983 through June 30, 1986.Mr. Prem veer Gujja Reddy as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective October 15, 1983.Mr. Nader Saiedi as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Ms. Helen M. Seltzer as Lecturer, Division of Continuing Education, Northern Virginia Regional Office, for the period November 1, 1983 through June 30, 1984.Mr. Istvan P. Sugar as Visiting Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective December 1, 1983.Dr. William R. Turk as Assistant Professor of Neurology and Pediatrics, for three years, effective January 1, 1984.Mrs. Wanda T. Wawro as Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period January 1, 1984 through June 30, 1984.Mr. George G. Wright as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective October 1, 1983.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF MR. DAVID M. MALONEY
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Mr. David M. Maloney, as approved by the Board on June 3, 1983, be changed to read as follows:Mr. David M. Maloney as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective January 16, 1984.

CHANGE IN THE TERM OF THE ELECTION OF DR. MARY L. VANCE
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the term of the election of Dr. Mary L. Vance, as approved by the Board on October 8, 1983, be changed to read as follows:Dr. Mary L. Vance as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby approved as shown below:(a) ElectionsDr. John Buckman as Alumni Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective January 1, 1984.Mr. James S. McCarthy as W. L. Lyons Brown Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Robert R. Wagner as Marion McNulty Weaver and Malvin C. Weaver Professor of Oncology and Professor of Microbiology, effective January 1, 1984.(b) Re-electionMs. Mary D. Ainsworth as Commonwealth Professor of Psychology and Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.(c) Leaves of AbsenceMr. Roland N. McKean, Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984, to do research.Mr. Daniel J. Meador, James Monroe Professor of Law, for one semester, effective September 2, 1983, to study in the German Democratic Republic.(d) Changes of TitleMs. Mary D. Ainsworth, from Commonwealth Professor of Psychology to Commonwealth Professor of Psychology, and Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, and Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. James Deese, from Hugh Scott Hamilton Professor of Psychology, to Hugh Scott Hamilton Professor of Psychology and Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. E. Mavis Hetherington, from James M. Page Professor of Psychology, to James M. Page Professor of Psychology, and Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Wilford W. Spradlin, from Alumni Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry and Professor of Internal Medicine, to David C. WilsonProfessor of Psychiatry and Professor of Internal Medicine, effective January 1, 1984.Dr. Paul B. Underwood, Jr., from Distinguished Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, to W. Norman Thornton Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective February 1, 1984.(e) Death of Chaired ProfessorMr. Victor W. Turner, William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Anthropology and Religious Studies, died December 19, 1983. He had been a member of the faculty since 1977.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Dr. Robert W. Allen as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Francoise M. Attinger as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Assistant Professor of Physiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective January 1, 1984.Mr. James A. Aune as Assistant Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Margaret A. Aycock as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for the period December 1, 1983 through June 30, 1986.Mr. Edward L. Ayers as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Bruce G. Bateman as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. F. John Bourgeois as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective October 1, 1983.Dr. Donald G. Branson as Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Lynchburg Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Sydney S. Breese, Jr. as Research Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for one year, effective January 1, 1984.Mr. Peter C. Brunjes as Assistant Professor of Psychology, and Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for three academic years, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. Kenneth J. Burger as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Jenny S. Clay as Assistant Professor of Classics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Walter D. Connor as Visiting Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Harry D. Dickinson as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the period January 16, 1984 through May 31, 1986.Ms. Ann D. Dunn as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective January 1, 1984.Mr. Maxim P. Engers as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. M. Jamie Ferreira as Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Mary E. Fisher as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Joan E. Gore as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Paul S. Groner as Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. James G. Hecker as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective August 16, 1983.Ms. Susan T. Hitchcock as Assistant Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Ms. Janette C. Hudson as Assistant Professor of German, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. George Hull as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Martin S. Jaffee as Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Marylin S. James as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, part-time, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for one year, effective December 9, 1983.Ms. Joli E. Jensen as Acting Assistant Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Harold B. Johnson, Jr. as Scholar-in-Residence in History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Walter P. Jost, III as Acting Assistant Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Phyllis R. Koch-Sheras as Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Dr. Susan E. Mackel as Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. John M. Markwood as Assistant Professor of Education, part-time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Waldo E. Martin, Jr. as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Jeffrey T. Mason as Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective November 1, 1983.Mr. Patrick J. Michaels as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Christina M. Mitchell as Assistant Professor of Psychology, and Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Miss Marianne Murdock as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Frank D. Nidiffer, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Thomas F. X. Noble as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Fernando Opere as Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Ranajit Pal as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Marvin E. Perkins as Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke Program, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Lawrence H. Phillips as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective January 1, 1984.Mr. Marian Pospieszalski as Visiting Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Ms. Deborah D. Roberts as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Marion W. Ross as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, part-time, and Assistant Professor of French, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. William J. Sacco as Visiting Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Steven M. Sanders as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective January 1, 1984.Mr. Walter Seyde as Visiting Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective January 1, 1984.Mr. Anthony C. Spearing as Visiting Professor of English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Wilford W. Spradlin as Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Thomas P. Sutula as Research Assistant Professor of Neurology, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Siva Thiagarajah as Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Mark Thomas as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. William J. Thurneck as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective January 1, 1984.Mr. Stanley A. Vinores as Research Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective October 16, 1983.Ms. Renate L. Voris as Assistant Professor of German, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1986.Mr. H. Adam J. Watson as Visiting Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Mr. Van D. Westervelt as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Jerry O. Wolff as Assistant Professor of Biology, for the period June 1, 1984 through August 31, 1984.

CHANGE IN THE TERM OF THE RE-ELECTION OF DR. MICHAEL G. LEVIEN
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the term of the re-election of Dr. Michael G. Levien, as approved by the Board on October 8, 1983, be changed to read as follows:Dr. Michael G. Levien as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for two years, effective July 1, 1983.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Mr. Dennis W. Barnes from Associate Professor, General Faculty to Professor, General Faculty, for five years, effective October 1, 1983.Dr. Vincent J. Guiliano from Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Professor of Internal Medicine, for five years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Taik C. Kim from Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine, Blue Ridge Hospital to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Blue Ridge Hospital, for one month, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Harry C. Nottebart from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. S. Joe Poon from Assistant Professor of Physics to Associate Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1984.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Thomas I. Crowell, Professor of Chemistry, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984, in accordance with agreement on file in the Provost's Office.Mr. Carlos M. N. Eire, Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984, to accept a post-doctoral fellowship from the Council for the International Exchange of Scholars.Mr. Piet C. Gugelot, Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, to conduct research at the University of Tokyo.Mr. Edgar J. Gunter, Jr., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period January 16, 1984 through August 31, 1984, for educational leave to lecture in China.Dr. James R. Kistner, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for the period January 1, 1984 through June 30, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. Donald W. Kupke, Professor of Biochemistry, for the period February 1, 1984 through December 31, 1984, to serve as Visiting Professor at the University of Otago in Dunedin, New Zealand.Mr. Waldo E. Martin, Jr., Assistant Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984, to accept a visiting appointment at the University of California, Berkeley.Mr. Waldo E. Martin, Jr., Assistant Professor of History, for the period September 1, 1984 through January 15, 1985, to pursue research.Mr. Walter B. Moore, III, Assistant Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for spring semesters for five years, effective January 16, 1984, to take advantage of Board of Visitors action for half-time retirement for five years.Mr. Timothy G. O'Rourke, Assistant Professor, Institute of Government, for one semester, effective January 1, 1984, to participate in a case involving the City of Norfolk, Virginia.Mr. Carlos Ramos-Gil, Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. G. Carlton Ray, Research Professor in Environmental Sciences, for the period October 1, 1983, through January 31, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. Kenneth R. Redden, Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 1, 1984.Ms. Marion E. Roberts, Associate Professor of Art History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984, for personal reasons.

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF REBECCA W. RIMEL
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the effective date of the leave of absence of Rebecca W. Rimel, as approved by the Board on October 8, 1983, be changed to read as follows:Ms. Rebecca W. Rimel, Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for the period December 1, 1983 through June 30, 1984, to be Program Manager for Health at the Pew Foundation.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Richard Q. Bell from Professor of Psychology and Psychiatry to Professor of Psychology and Psychiatry and Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Phillip Best from Professor of Psychology to Professor of Psychology and Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. John Bonvillian from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Assistant Professor of Psychology and Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Peter Brunjes from Assistant Professor of Psychology, to Assistant Professor of Psychology and Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for the period September 1, 1983, through January 15, 1985.Mr. Robert Emery from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Assistant Professor of Psychology and Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. William P. Gardner from Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology to Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology and Acting Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Mark E. Hawley from Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, to Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Marvin J. Homzie from Associate Professor of Psychology to Associate Professor of Psychology and Associate Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. James R. Kistner from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective January 1, 1984.Ms. Edith C. Lawrence from Clinical Assistant Professor, part-time, Institute of Clinical Psychology to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, part-time, and Clinical Psychologist, for one academic year, effective January 16, 1984.Mr. Jules I. Levine from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, to Associate Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective October 1, 1983.Mr. Eugene A. Lovelace from Associate Professor of Psychology to Associate Professor of Psychology and Associate Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Jack J. McArdle from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Assistant Professor of Psychology and Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Richard McCarty from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Assistant Professor of Psychology and Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Thomas E. McCue from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the period November 1, 1983, through May 31, 1986.Dr. Edward D. Miller from Professor of Anesthesiology to Professor of Anesthesiology and Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Christina Mitchell from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Assistant Professor of Psychology and Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Douglas G. Mook from Professor of Psychology to Professor of Psychology and Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Charlotte J. Patterson from Associate Professor of Psychology to Associate Professor of Psychology and Associate Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Elliott R. Pearl from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective December 1, 1983.Mr. Dennis R. Proffitt from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Assistant Professor of Psychology and Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. N. Dickon Reppucci from Professor of Psychology to Professor of Psychology and Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Alan D. Rogol from Associate Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Associate Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective January 1, 1984.Dr. Hernan Sabio from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty and Associate Professor of Pathology, for the period December 1, 1983, through June 30, 1984.Ms. Lois A. Weithorn from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Assistant Professor of Psychology and Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Miss Nancy I. Whitman from Assistant Professor of Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Therese Wiedmer from Research Instructor in Pharmacology to Research Instructor in Pathology, for the period December 1, 1983, through September 30, 1984.Mr. Brian L. Wilcox from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Assistant Professor of Psychology and Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Melvin Wilson from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Assistant Professor of Psychology and Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Dr. W. Dimmock Buxton, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective January 31, 1984. Dr. Buxton has been a member of the faculty since 1952.Mr. Ira Dye, Research Professor of Civil Engineering, General Faculty, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective February 28, 1984. Mr. Dye has been a member of the faculty since 1980.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Ms. Melinda J. Blauvelt, Assistant Professor of Art, effective September 27, 1983, for personal reasons.Mr. Venkatasuryanarayana Chebolu, Instructor in Chemistry, effective September 1, 1983, to accept another position.Ms. Eva M. Click, Instructor in Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, effective September 30, 1983, to attend graduate school.Mr. Alfred G. Colley, III, Lecturer, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, effective October 1, 1983, to transfer to classified position.Mr. Daniel M. Crane, Lecturer in Law, effective October 15, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. Ralph G. Dacey, Jr., Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, effective November 14, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. John H. Danby, Professor of Family Medicine, Lynchburg, effective October 31, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. Gholamreza Farsad, Associate Professor of Surgery, Roanoke/Salem Program, effective October 19, 1983, to accept another position.Ms. Jessica R. Feldman, Lecturer in English, part-time, effective January 16, 1984, resigning position in English only; to continue part-time in the Dean of the College office.Ms. Carolyn L. Forche, Lecturer in English, effective January 16, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. Charles H. W. Foster, Scholar-in-Residence in Environmental Science, effective December 31, 1983, for personal reasons.Ms. Julia H. Green, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective December 31, 1983, for personal reasons.Mr. George H. Harrison, Jr., Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective December 31, 1983, for personal reasons.Ms. Gail K. Hart, Assistant Professor of German, effective September 1, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Mark A. Hausman, Research Assistant Professor, Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective December 31, 1983, for personal reasons.Mr. David M. Holt, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective November 4, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Charles H. Hudgins, Professor, General Faculty, effective November 30, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. R. Dave Hughes, Assistant Professor of Education, effective January 15, 1984, to accept another position.Ms. Michele T. Laraia, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, effective October 31, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Samuel T. Lloyd, Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, effective May 31, 1984, to devote full time to his parish ministry.Dr. Richard M. Newton, Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, effective December 27, 1983, to accept another position.Ms. Patricia U. Richards, Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective January 10, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Rudolf J. Schneck, Instructor in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective January 15, 1984, to do research.Mr. Randall R. Smith, Lecturer in Commerce and Assistant Dean of Commerce, effective December 31, 1983, to enter the Ph.D. program.Dr. H. Richard Winn, Professor of Neurosurgery and Associate Professor of Physiology, effective November 30, 1983, to accept another position.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Dennis W. Barnes as Associate Vice President for Governmental Relations, for five years, effective October 1, 1983.Mr. Juan Cano-Ballesta as Acting Chairman, Department of Spanish, Italian and Portuguese, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Tony L. Crunk as Assistant Dean, School of Commerce, for one year, effective January 1, 1984.Mr. James C. Dunstan as Director, The Tayloe Murphy Institute, for one semester, effective January 1, 1984; and July 1, 1984-December 31, 1986.Mr. David T. Gies as Chairman, Department of Spanish, Italian and Portuguese, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Roland E. Johnson as Assistant Vice President, General Services, for three years, effective October 15, 1983.Mr. William R. Johnson as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. David P. Kovacs as Acting Chairman, Department of Classics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Saul X. Levmore as Assistant to the Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. William E. Odum as Chairman, Department of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Richard F. Shutts as Director, Real Estate, Risk Management and Safety, for the period September 6, 1983 through June 30, 1984Mr. William B. Taylor as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one month, effective June 1, 1984.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Alan P. Batson as Director of Academic Computing, for the period June 1, 1984 through June 30, 1987Ms. Rose M. Chioni as Dean, School of Nursing, for five years, effective February 1, 1984.Ms. Joan E. Gore as Assistant Dean for International Studies, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. John F. Harlan, Jr. as Assistant Vice President for Allied Health Affairs, for two years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Paul B. Stephan as Assistant to the Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. William J. Thurneck as Assistant Dean for Administration, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective January 1, 1984.Mr. W. Dexter Whitehead as Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for four years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. W. Dexter Whitehead as Director, Center for Advanced Studies, for four years, effective July 1, 1984.

DEATH OF DR. BRUCE D. BAIRD
---------------------------

DEATH OF MR. DIETRICH BODENSTEIN
--------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMPTON VISITING PROFESSORSHIP IN WORLD POLITICS AT THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established the Compton Visiting Professorship in World Politics in an academic department to be designated by the Vice President and Provost, as appropriate to the incumbent's activities and participation in the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs. The Board is grateful to the Compton Foundation, Incorporated, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS PROFESSORSHIP IN ETHICS AND INSTITUTIONS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs Professorship in Ethics and Institutions in an academic department to be designated by the Vice President and Provost, as appropriate to the incumbent's activities and participation in the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs. The Board is grateful to the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Incorporated, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SPONSORS PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration a Chair to be known as the Sponsors Professorship in Business Administration, this Professorship to be held by the Dean of the Darden School. This Chair is to become effective at such time as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to Mr. George M. Kaufman, an anonymous donor, and the Darden School Sponsors who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE J. WILSON NEWMAN PROFESSORSHIP IN GOVERNANCE AT THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established the J. Wilson Newman Professorship in Governance in an academic department to be designated by the Vice President and Provost, as appropriate to the incumbent's activities and participation in the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs, this Chair to become effective at such time as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to Mr. J. Wilson Newman, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

CHANGE IN THE NAME OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN OBSTETRICS AND GYNECOLOGY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Chair in the School of Medicine known as the Distinguished Professorship in Obstetrics and Gynecology be and it is hereby renamed the W. Norman Thornton Professorship in Obstetrics and Gynecology.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program as shown in the Major Projects Status Report, dated January 6, 1984.

REPORT ON LEGISLATIVE MATTERS
-----------------------------

Mr. Dennis Barnes reported that a report on legislative matters will be distributed by mail in the near future to all members of the Board.

INCREASE IN SUMMER TUITION AND FEES FOR 1984
--------------------------------------------

Actual 1983

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1984

FULL TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEE

Registration (Included in tuition in 1984)

$ 6.00

$-6.00

\-100.0%

$ -

Diploma

1.00

\-

\-

1.00

Intramurals

4.50

\-

\-

4.50

Newcomb Hall

7.00

\-

\-

7.00

Drama

1.00

\-

\-

1.00

Student Health

27.50

1.50

5.5%

29.00

Transportation

8.00

1.50

18.8%

9.50

TOTAL

$55.00

$-3.00

\-5.5%

$52.00

PART TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEE

Registration (Included in tuition in 1984)

$ 6.00

$-6.00

\- 100.0%

$ -

Diploma

1.00

\-

\-

1.00

Intramurals

2.25

\-

\-

2.25

Newcomb Hall

3.00

\-

\-

3.00

Drama

.50

\-

\-

.50

Student Health

21.25

7.75

36.5%

29.00

Transportation

4.00

.25

6.3%

4.25

$38.00

$ 2.00

5.3%

$40.00

TUITION

Virginian (per semester hour)

$45.00

$ 5.00

6.3%

$ 50.00

Non-Virginian (per semester hour)

90.00

18.00

20%

108.00

Thesis/Dissertation Research

122.00

12.00

9.8%

134.00

APPELLATE JUDGES PROGRAM

$405.00

$45.00

11.1%

$ 450.00

NON-RESIDENT FEE

Proposed fee is equal to the Board approved fee for the Regular Session

$ 30.00

$ -

\-

$30.00

Actual 1983

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1984

Lab Fee and Field Trip

$32.00

$ 3.00

9.4%

$ 35.00

Pre-Doctoral Research Fee Per Term:

Virginian

122.00

8.00

6.6%

130.00

Non-virginian

244.00

16.00

6.6%

260.00

Post doctoral Laboratory:

Fee per week

49.00

3.00

6.1%

52.00

MT. LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Each Person 17 years of age & older

$240.00

5.00

2.1%

245.00

Each Person 10-16 years of age

160.00

5.00

3.1%

165.00

Each Person 9 years of age & younger

96.00

4.00

4.2%

100.00

MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Dormitories

$ 55.00

2.00

3.6%

57.00

Cottages

Laing Singles

55.00

2.00

3.6%

57.00

Laing Center

77.00

6.00

7.8%

83.00

North

66.00

5.00

7.6%

71.00

South

66.00

5.00

7.6%

71.00

Northwest

66.00

5.00

7.6%

71.00

West

77.00

6.00

7.8%

83.00

Hentz-Mohr

99.00

8.00

8.1%

107.00

kitchen

121.00

9.00

7.4%

130.00

Clayton

99.00

8.00

8.1%

107.00

Catesby

83.00

7.00

8.4%

90.00

Gattinger

83.00

7.00

8.4%

90.00

Michaux

99.00

8.00

8.1%

107.00

with kitchen

121.00

9.00

7.4%

130.00

Washington

88.00

7.00

8.0%

95.00

Banister

88.00

7.00

8.0%

95.00

LeConte

88.00

7.00

8.0%

95.00

Hariot

88.00

7.00

8.0%

95.00

Schoew

88.00

7.00

8.0%

95.00

Maphis

88.00

7.00

8.0%

95.00

Holbrook

88.00

7.00

8.0%

95.00

Mitchell

88.00

7.00

8.0%

95.00

Burns

88.00

7.00

8.0%

95.00

Rafinesque

77.00

6.00

7.8%

83.00

Other Rental Plans

Rafinesque -

September - May: $12/night for 1 or 2 persons or $75/week; $3/night for each additional person.

September - November and March - May: $237/month

December - February: $267/month

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summer Session fees for the University Division be and they are hereby increased as follows, effective beginning with the Summer Session of 1984: Actual 1983Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1984FULL TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEERegistration (Included in tuition in 1984)$ 6.00$-6.00-100.0%$ -Diploma1.00--1.00Intramurals4.50--4.50Newcomb Hall7.00--7.00Drama1.00--1.00Student Health27.501.505.5%29.00Transportation8.001.5018.8%9.50TOTAL$55.00$-3.00-5.5%$52.00PART TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEERegistration (Included in tuition in 1984)$ 6.00$-6.00- 100.0%$ -Diploma1.00--1.00Intramurals2.25--2.25Newcomb Hall3.00--3.00Drama.50--.50Student Health21.257.7536.5%29.00Transportation4.00.256.3%4.25$38.00$ 2.005.3%$40.00TUITIONVirginian (per semester hour)$45.00$ 5.006.3%$ 50.00Non-Virginian (per semester hour)90.0018.0020%108.00Thesis/Dissertation Research122.0012.009.8%134.00APPELLATE JUDGES PROGRAM$405.00$45.0011.1%$ 450.00NON-RESIDENT FEEProposed fee is equal to the Board approved fee for the Regular Session$ 30.00$ --$30.00 The Summer Session registration fee and tuition rates also apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station. In addition the following special fees apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station: Actual 1983Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1984Lab Fee and Field Trip$32.00$ 3.009.4%$ 35.00Pre-Doctoral Research Fee Per Term:Virginian122.008.006.6%130.00Non-virginian244.0016.006.6%260.00Post doctoral Laboratory:Fee per week49.003.006.1%52.00MT. LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)Each Person 17 years of age & older$240.005.002.1%245.00Each Person 10-16 years of age160.005.003.1%165.00Each Person 9 years of age & younger96.004.004.2%100.00MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)Dormitories$ 55.002.003.6%57.00CottagesLaing Singles55.002.003.6%57.00Laing Center77.006.007.8%83.00North66.005.007.6%71.00South66.005.007.6%71.00Northwest66.005.007.6%71.00West77.006.007.8%83.00Hentz-Mohr99.008.008.1%107.00kitchen121.009.007.4%130.00Clayton99.008.008.1%107.00Catesby83.007.008.4%90.00Gattinger83.007.008.4%90.00Michaux99.008.008.1%107.00with kitchen121.009.007.4%130.00Washington88.007.008.0%95.00Banister88.007.008.0%95.00LeConte88.007.008.0%95.00Hariot88.007.008.0%95.00Schoew88.007.008.0%95.00Maphis88.007.008.0%95.00Holbrook88.007.008.0%95.00Mitchell88.007.008.0%95.00Burns88.007.008.0%95.00Rafinesque77.006.007.8%83.00Other Rental PlansRafinesque -September - May: $12/night for 1 or 2 persons or $75/week; $3/night for each additional person.September - November and March - May: $237/monthDecember - February: $267/month

RENTAL RATES FOR HOUSING FACILITIES FOR THE SUMMER 1984
-------------------------------------------------------

FACILITY

Actual Summer 1983

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed Rate Summer 1984

SUMMER SESSION RATES (Including PHD Institute)

Alderman-Observatory

Per student, per week, double occup.

$ 29.00

$ 0

0%

$ 29.00

Per student, per week, single occup.

36.00

0

0%

36.00

Nurses Apartment Complex

Per student, per week, double occup.

$ 36.00

$ 0

0%

$ 36.00

Per student, per week, single occup.

45.00

0

0%

45.00

Munford/Gwathmey

Per student, per week, double occup.

N/A

\-

\-

$ 29.00

Per student, per week, single occup.

N/A

\-

\-

$ 36.00

Sprigg Lane

Per student, per week, double occup.

N/A

\-

\-

$ 32.00

Per student, per week, single occup.

N/A

\-

\-

$ 40.00

SUMMER CONFERENCE RATES

(A) FULL SERVICE - All linens provided; full, daily maid service.

Lambeth Field

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 13.50

$ 0

0%

$ 13.50

Per person, per night, single occup.

19.00

0

0%

19.00

Monroe Hill Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 12.00

$ 0

0%

$ 12.00

Per person, per night, single occup.

17.00

0

0%

17.00

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 9.50

$ 0

0%

$ 9.50

Per person, per night, single occup.

13.00

0

0%

13.00

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 8.50

$ 0

0%

$ 8.50

Per person, per night, single occup.

12.00

0

0%

12.00

Copeley Hill, Phase III & IV

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 14.50

$ 0

0%

$ 14.50

Per person, per night, single occup.

$ 21.00

0

0%

21.00

Faulkner

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ N/A

$ -

\-

$ 14.50

Per person, per night, single occup.

$ N/A

\-

\-

21.00

FACILITY

Actual Summer 1983

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed Rate Summer 1984

(B) PARTIAL SERVICE - Most linens provided; common areas serviced moderately.

Lambeth Field

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 11.00

$ 0

0%

$ 11.00

Per person, per night, single occup.

16.00

0

0%

16.00

Family rates, per week 2 bdrm apt

$165.00

$ 0

0%

$165.00

Family rates, per week 3 bdrm apt

220.00

0

0%

220.00

Monroe Hill Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 10.00

$ 0

0%

$ 10.00

Per person, per night, single occup.

14.00

0

0%

14.00

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 8.50

$ 0

0%

$ 8.50

Per person, per night, single occup.

10.00

0

0%

10.00

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 7.50

$ 0

0%

$ 7.50

Per person, per night, single occup.

8.00

0

0%

8.00

(C) NO LINEN SERVICE

Lambeth Field

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 9.00

$ 0

0%

$ 9.00

Monroe Hill Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 9.00

$ 0

0%

$ 9.00

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 7.50

$ 0

0%

$ 7.50

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 6.50

$ 0

0%

$ 6.50

OTHER CONTRACTED per person group rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures.

GRADUATE SUITES

Graduate Advisor Suites in Alderman and McCormick Road Houses

Per suite, per week

$ 70.00

$ 0

0%

$ 70.00

GUEST FACILITIES

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per first night

$ 10.58

$ 0

0%

$ 10.58

Per person, for night thereafter

8.65

0

0%

8.65

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following rental rates for housing facilities for summer, 1984, be and they are hereby approved: FACILITYActual Summer 1983Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed Rate Summer 1984SUMMER SESSION RATES (Including PHD Institute)Alderman-ObservatoryPer student, per week, double occup.$ 29.00$ 00%$ 29.00Per student, per week, single occup.36.0000%36.00Nurses Apartment ComplexPer student, per week, double occup.$ 36.00$ 00%$ 36.00Per student, per week, single occup.45.0000%45.00Munford/GwathmeyPer student, per week, double occup.N/A--$ 29.00Per student, per week, single occup.N/A--$ 36.00Sprigg LanePer student, per week, double occup.N/A--$ 32.00Per student, per week, single occup.N/A--$ 40.00SUMMER CONFERENCE RATES(A) FULL SERVICE - All linens provided; full, daily maid service.Lambeth FieldPer person, per night, double occup.$ 13.50$ 00%$ 13.50Per person, per night, single occup.19.0000%19.00Monroe Hill HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ 12.00$ 00%$ 12.00Per person, per night, single occup.17.0000%17.00Alderman/Observatory HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ 9.50$ 00%$ 9.50Per person, per night, single occup.13.0000%13.00McCormick Road HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ 8.50$ 00%$ 8.50Per person, per night, single occup.12.0000%12.00Copeley Hill, Phase III & IVPer person, per night, double occup.$ 14.50$ 00%$ 14.50Per person, per night, single occup.$ 21.0000%21.00FaulknerPer person, per night, double occup.$ N/A$ --$ 14.50Per person, per night, single occup.$ N/A--21.00 FACILITYActual Summer 1983Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed Rate Summer 1984(B) PARTIAL SERVICE - Most linens provided; common areas serviced moderately.Lambeth FieldPer person, per night, double occup.$ 11.00$ 00%$ 11.00Per person, per night, single occup.16.0000%16.00Family rates, per week 2 bdrm apt$165.00$ 00%$165.00Family rates, per week 3 bdrm apt220.0000%220.00Monroe Hill HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ 10.00$ 00%$ 10.00Per person, per night, single occup.14.0000%14.00Alderman/Observatory HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ 8.50$ 00%$ 8.50Per person, per night, single occup.10.0000%10.00McCormick Road HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ 7.50$ 00%$ 7.50Per person, per night, single occup.8.0000%8.00(C) NO LINEN SERVICELambeth FieldPer person, per night, double occup.$ 9.00$ 00%$ 9.00Monroe Hill HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ 9.00$ 00%$ 9.00Alderman/Observatory HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ 7.50$ 00%$ 7.50McCormick Road HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ 6.50$ 00%$ 6.50OTHER CONTRACTED per person group rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures.GRADUATE SUITESGraduate Advisor Suites in Alderman and McCormick Road HousesPer suite, per week$ 70.00$ 00%$ 70.00GUEST FACILITIESMcCormick Road HousesPer person, per first night$ 10.58$ 00%$ 10.58Per person, for night thereafter8.6500%8.65

INCREASE IN STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 1984-1985
-----------------------------------------------

Facility

Actual 1983-84 Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1984-85 Per Student Per Session

DORMITORIES

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Double Room

$1050

$ 50

4.8%

$1100

Monroe Hill

Double Room

$1150

$ 50

4.3%

$1200

Triple Room

$ 920

$ 50

5.4%

$ 970

McCormick Road

Double Room

$ 985

$ 50

5.1%

$1035

Small Double Room

$ 850

$ 50

5.9%

$ 900

Lawn

Small Single

$1140

$ 50

4.4%

$1190

Small Single (no fireplace)

$1100

$ 50

4.5%

$1150

Regular Single

$1200

$ 50

4.2%

$1250

Range

Regular Single

$1160

$ 50

4.3%

$1210

Crackerbox

Double Room

$1095

$ 50

4.6%

$1145

Mary Munford/Roberta Gwalthmey

Double Room

$1050

$ 50

4.8%

$1100

Single Room

$1160

$ 50

4.3%

$1210

Sprigg

Double Room

$1200

$ 50

4.2%

$1250

Single Room

$1310

$ 50

3.8%

$1360

Single Room, (Private Bath)

$1360

$ 50

3.7%

$1410

Faulkner

Double Room

$1300

$ 50

3.8

$1350

Single Room

$1360

$ 50

3.7

$1410

Stadium Road

Double Room

N/A

\-

\-

$1250

Single Room

N/A

\-

\-

$1360

APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENT

Copeley Hill Phase III & IV, Nurses, Lambeth Field

Two Bedroom

$1250

$ 50

4.0%

$1300

Three Bedroom

$1190

$ 50

4.2%

$1240

Facility

Actual 1983-84 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1984-85 Per Month

APARTMENTS - FAMILY

Copeley Hill, Phases I & II

One Bedroom

$ 268

$ 5

1.9%

$ 273

Two Bedroom

$ 295

$ 5

1.7%

$ 300

Three Bedroom

$ 323

$ 5

1.5%

$ 328

University Gardens

One Bedroom

$ 258

$ 5

1.9%

$ 263

Two Bedroom

$ 285

$ 5

1.8%

$ 290

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that rental increases for student housing facilities be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective beginning with the Session 1984-85: FacilityActual 1983-84 Per Student Per SessionAmount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1984-85 Per Student Per SessionDORMITORIESAlderman/Observatory HousesDouble Room$1050$ 504.8%$1100Monroe HillDouble Room$1150$ 504.3%$1200Triple Room$ 920$ 505.4%$ 970McCormick RoadDouble Room$ 985$ 505.1%$1035Small Double Room$ 850$ 505.9%$ 900LawnSmall Single$1140$ 504.4%$1190Small Single (no fireplace)$1100$ 504.5%$1150Regular Single$1200$ 504.2%$1250RangeRegular Single$1160$ 504.3%$1210CrackerboxDouble Room$1095$ 504.6%$1145Mary Munford/Roberta GwalthmeyDouble Room$1050$ 504.8%$1100Single Room$1160$ 504.3%$1210SpriggDouble Room$1200$ 504.2%$1250Single Room$1310$ 503.8%$1360Single Room, (Private Bath)$1360$ 503.7%$1410FaulknerDouble Room$1300$ 503.8$1350Single Room$1360$ 503.7$1410Stadium RoadDouble RoomN/A--$1250Single RoomN/A--$1360APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENTCopeley Hill Phase III & IV, Nurses, Lambeth FieldTwo Bedroom$1250$ 504.0%$1300Three Bedroom$1190$ 504.2%$1240 FacilityActual 1983-84 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1984-85 Per MonthAPARTMENTS - FAMILYCopeley Hill, Phases I & IIOne Bedroom$ 268$ 51.9%$ 273Two Bedroom$ 295$ 51.7%$ 300Three Bedroom$ 323$ 51.5%$ 328University GardensOne Bedroom$ 258$ 51.9%$ 263Two Bedroom$ 285$ 51.8%$ 290

These rates include all utility costs, TV cable in apartments and post office box rental where applicable.

ELECTION OF J. WILSON NEWMAN TO THE MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. J. Wilson Newman be and he is hereby elected to the Miller Center Council for a term of seven years, effective October 21, 1983.

ELECTION OF JOHN W. HANCOCK, JR., TO THE MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. John W. Hancock, Jr., be and he is hereby elected to the Miller Center Council for a term of six years, effective October 21, 1983.

RE-ELECTION OF JANE CAHILL PFEIFFER TO THE MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mrs. Jane Cahill Pfeiffer be and she is hereby re-elected to the Miller Center Council for a term of eight years, effective January 23, 1984.

NAMING OF THE TWO STUDENT HOUSING UNITS ON ALDERMAN ROAD THE HARDY C. DILLARD HOUSE AND THE ROBERT K. GOOCH HOUSE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the two student housing units now under construction on Alderman Road be named the Hardy C. Dillard House and Robert K. Gooch House.

NAMING OF THE TWO STUDENT HOUSING UNITS ON SPRIGG LANE THE IVEY F. LEWIS HOUSE AND LLEWELLYN G. HOXTON HOUSE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the two student housing units now under construction on Sprigg Lane be named the Ivey F. Lewis House and Llewellyn G. Hoxton House.

NAMING OF THE THREE STUDENT HOUSING UNITS ON THE NORTH GROUNDS THE ATCHESON L. HENCH HOUSE AND THE ATCHESON L. HENCH COTTAGE; THE EDWARD E. YOUNGER HOUSE AND THE EDWARD E. YOUNGER COTTAGE AND THE SAMUEL A. MITCHELL HOUSE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the three student housing units now under construction on the North Grounds and the two cottages included in the complex be named the Atcheson L. Hench House and the Atcheson L. Hench Cottage; the Edward E. Younger House and the Edward E. Younger Cottage; and the Samuel A. Mitchell House, the latter being the housing unit without a nearby cottage.

NAMING OF THE ENTRANCE BUILDING OF THE LAW SCHOOL THE HENRY MALCOLM WITHERS HALL
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Mrs. Lacy Withers Armour, daughter of Henry Malcolm Withers, who was a 1869 graduate of the University of Virginia Law School, made generous provisions for the Law School in her estate; andWHEREAS, trustees administering a portion of her estate have approved a $2.8 million gift to endow the Lacy Withers Armour Scholarships for outstanding law students, and a $200,000 gift to endow the Lacy Withers Armour Scholarships for undergraduate students;NOW BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the main and entrance building of the Law School be named Henry Malcolm Withers Hall; andBE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that copies of this resolution be forwarded to Mr. Laurance H. Armour, III, the great grandson of Henry Malcolm Withers, and to his fellow trustees with an appropriate expression of the deep appreciation of the Board of Visitors for this generous gift.

AUTHORIZATION TO PROVIDE FOR THE CONDUCT OF INSTITUTIONAL SELF-STUDY
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, every ten years the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools requires that its member institutions conduct a Self-Study Program which is subsequently evaluated at the institution by a committee of peer educators; andWHEREAS, the purposes of the procedure are to ensure that institutions meet minimum standards of quality and that they accurately and comprehensively assess their educational achievements - the procedure resulting in reaffirmation of accreditation; andWHEREAS, the Southern Association has informed the University that it is to undertake a Self-Study Program beginning in 1984;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the institutional self-study required by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools be and it is hereby endorsed, and that the President is hereby authorized to provide for the conduct of the study beginning in February 1984.

AUTHORIZATION FOR INVESTMENT IN THE COMMON FUND FOR INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENTS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Vice President for Business and Finance be and he is hereby authorized to invest such funds or securities as may from time to time be determined by the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors in the Common Fund for International Investments.

AUTHORIZATION TO PURCHASE CARDIAC CATHETERIZATION EQUIPMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the University of Virginia Hospitals has budgeted for the acquisition of Cardiac Catheterization Equipment during the 1983-84 fiscal year to expand patient care services capabilities of cardiac catheterization imaging techniques in the Hospital; andWHEREAS, funds are available for the purchase of said cardiac catheterization equipment;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Vice President for Business and Finance be authorized to execute a contract and other documents to acquire cardiac catheterization equipment for patient care services in the University Hospitals at a cost not to exceed $1,311,000, subject to approval by the State Health Commissioner of a certificate of need.

APPROVAL OF LEASE BETWEEN PARK LANE BUILDING, INCORPORATED, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, FOR PROPERTY KNOWN AS 1312 LANE ROAD, CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the lease between Park Lane Building, Incorporated, and the University of Virginia, for property known as 1312 Lane Road, Charlottesville, Virginia, amounting to 4,809 square feet, at a rental of $10,200 per year for a one year term, be and it is hereby approved, and the appropriate officers of the University be and they are hereby authorized to execute a lease in substantially the same form as the draft submitted for approval. The lease shall be subject to the approval of the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

REVISION OF SCHOOL BOARD INSURANCE COVERAGE
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the appropriate officers be and they hereby are authorized to cancel the School Board Liability Policy currently held with the International Surplus Lines Insurance Company and to take such action as is necessary to see that the University, its Board of Visitors, officers, and personnel are covered by the Commonwealth of Virginia's "all-risk" Compass policy currently in effect.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

University of Virginia Hospital:

Bad Debts

$1,743,616.33

Free Service

7,715,187.99

\-------------

Total

$9,458,804.32

Blue Ridge Hospital:

Acute -

Bad Debts

$ 14,446.37

Free Service

337,207.51

\-------------

Total Acute

$ 351,653.88

TB Free Service

$ 389,721.95

TB Free Service (Outpatient)

1,906.39

\-------------

Total Blue Ridge

$ 743,282.22

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts listed on University of Virginia schedule numbers 488 through 499, meetings for the months of August 26, 1983, September 27, 1983, October 28, 1983, and November 28, 1983, totaling $9,458,804.32 and Blue Ridge Hospital Division schedule numbers 542 through 557, meetings for the months of August 26, 1983, September 27, 1983, October 28, 1983, and November 28, 1983, totaling $743,282.22, consisting of the following: University of Virginia Hospital:Bad Debts$1,743,616.33Free Service7,715,187.99-------------Total$9,458,804.32Blue Ridge Hospital:Acute -Bad Debts$ 14,446.37Free Service337,207.51-------------Total Acute$ 351,653.88TB Free Service$ 389,721.95TB Free Service (Outpatient)1,906.39-------------Total Blue Ridge$ 743,282.22 RESOLVED FURTHER, that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of the debts represented by such accounts.

RECOGNITION OF THE LAWN ADVISORY BOARD
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Lawn Advisory Board appointed by the President be and it is hereby recognized. The Lawn Advisory Board is seeking endowment funds for major buildings and grounds projects in the historic area, and it will work closely with the University administration to maintain and preserve the unique architectural quality of the central Grounds.

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING SHORT TERM BORROWINGS OF UP TO $5,000,000 FROM TIME TO TIME TO BE EVIDENCED BY ONE OR MORE ENDOWMENT FUND REVENUE NOTES OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AND THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF VARIOUS DOCUMENTS WITH RESPECT THERETO
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University"), with the approval of the Governor of Virginia, is authorized to issue its bonds or notes pursuant to Section 23-30.01 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the "Act"), to provide funds for various purposes; andWHEREAS, the University desires to obtain temporary financing at any time and from time to time of up to $5,000,000 for various projects including the construction of the Scott Stadium Multipurpose Annex, and the acquisition of real estate and research, computing and instruction equipment (the "Projects"); andWHEREAS, the University is authorized to enter into contracts and indentures to secure its bonds and notes issued under the Act and to provide for the rights of the holders thereof;NOW THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED:1. It is hereby determined that the University shall contract a debt by issuing one or more of its endowment fund revenue notes pursuant to the Act to evidence loans made to the University thereunder to finance, together with other available funds, on a temporary basis, the acquisition and construction as the case may be, of any or all of the Projects, and to evidence a back-up liquidity facility, if any, to enable the University to purchase or otherwise pay off other notes issued hereunder, and there is hereby authorized to be issued and sold for that purpose one or more endowment fund revenue notes of the University in a principal amount equal to the aggregate of all advances outstanding thereunder to the University but not to exceed $5,000,000 at any time and from time to time and otherwise to be appropriately designated (such notes and any substitutions and replacements therefore are hereinafter referred to as the "Notes").2. The Notes shall be limited obligations of the University the principal of and interest on which are secured by, and payable exclusively from, the same portion of its endowment fund from and by which its $7,500,000 Endowment Fund Revenue Bonds of 1982 (the "1982 Bonds") and its $15,000,000 Endowment Fund Demand Revenue Notes, Series of 1983 (the "1983 Notes") are payable and secured. The Notes shall not be general obligations of the University, and the University shall not be obligated to pay the principal of or interest on the Notes except from that portion of the endowment fund and other revenues pledged therefor.3. The Vice President for Business and Finance and other appropriate officers of the University are hereby authorized to solicit requests for proposals for the purchase of the Notes and the provision of a back-up liquidity facility from interested parties and to accept the proposal(s) deemed by them to be most beneficial to the University in terms of interest costs, commitment and placement fees and related factors, and, subject to the other provisions hereof, the Notes shall be payable to the persons and issued as and when determined by the Vice President for Business and Finance and the purchaser (s) of the Notes and lender (s) providing the back-up facility so selected.4. The Notes shall be dated, shall be in such individual principal amounts, shall mature, shall bear interest at such rate(s) payable on such dates, and shall be subject to redemption at such times upon such terms, all as shall be determined by the Vice President for Business and Finance subject to the limitations set forth in the next sentence hereof. The Notes shall be in individual face amounts not exceeding $5,000,000 (with the aggregate principal amount outstanding under all of the Notes not to exceed $5,000,000 at any time and from time to time), shall mature not more than three years from the date of issue of the first of the Notes, and shall provide for interest at a rate not to exceed 65% of the prime lending rate (or an average thereof) of one or more nationally or regionally recognized commercial banks in the case of Notes evidencing loans to finance the Projects initially and at a rate not to exceed 70% of such prime lending rate (or an average thereof), plus an annualized commitment fee of not to exceed 1% of the principal amount available thereunder, in the case of Notes evidencing any back-up facility.5. In order to secure the Notes and to set forth certain other terms and conditions applicable thereto, the Vice President for Business and Finance and other appropriate officers of the University are hereby authorized, if requested by the purchasers of the Notes, to provide for the preparation of an indenture or similar document between the University and a corporate trustee (the "Indenture") which shall contain covenants of the University in the form of, and otherwise consistent with, those set forth in indentures previously executed by the University in connection with the issuance of the 1982 Bonds and 1983 Notes, but with such changes, omissions and insertions as the officer (s) of the University executing it shall deem appropriate and as may be necessary to carry out the intent hereof.6. In order to set forth the terms and conditions upon which the purchasers or lenders will acquire the Notes initially or will provide a back-up liquidity facility to purchase the Notes or lend funds thereunder, the Vice President for Business and Finance and other appropriate officers of the University are hereby authorized, if requested by such purchasers or lenders, to provide for the preparation of any one or more of a Note Purchase Agreement, a Short Term Borrowing Agreement, a Line of Credit Agreement or other similar agreement between the University and such purchasers and lenders (together the "Note Purchase and Credit Agreements") which shall contain such provisions not inconsistent herewith and be in such form as the officer (s) of the University executing them shall deem appropriate and as may be necessary to carry out the intent hereof.7. The Notes shall be signed by the manual or facsimile signature of the Rector of the University, the University's seal shall be affixed thereto or imprinted thereon and attested by the manual signature of its Secretary, and the Notes shall bear a 1984 series designation and contain such other customary provisions under the Act as the officers executing them shall approve, their execution thereof to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval.8. If any officer of the University who signs any of the Notes shall cease to be an officer of the University while the Note is outstanding, or if any officer of the University who signs any of the Notes shall not have held such office at the date of the Note, the Note so signed shall nevertheless be valid for all purposes.9. The Vice President for Business and Finance and other appropriate officers of the University are hereby authorized and directed to take all proper steps to have the Notes prepared and executed in accordance with their terms and the terms hereof, to deliver the Notes to the purchasers or lenders selected as contemplated by Section 3 hereof, and to draw monies down thereunder as and when deemed necessary by them to provide temporary financing for the Projects (but subject to the obtaining of necessary approvals of the Commonwealth of Virginia for any of such Projects as determined by counsel for the University prior to borrowing amounts thereunder for such Project).10. The action of the Vice President for Business and Finance and other officers of the University in undertaking preliminary arrangements for the financing contemplated hereby is in all respects ratified and approved.11. The Rector, Vice President for Busines and Finance, Assistant Vice President for Finance, Secretary, Assistant Secretary and any other officer of the University as designated by the Vice President for Business and Finance, are hereby authorized and empowered for and on behalf of the University to execute the Indenture and the Note Purchase and Credit Agreements, to pay all reasonable costs and expenses of issuance (including attorney's fees), and to take such further action and to execute and deliver such further instruments and documents in the name and on behalf of the University as they consider necessary or desirable to carry out the intent and purpose of this resolution, the issuance of the Notes, and the consummation of borrowings thereunder.12. The Rector, Vice President for Business and Finance, Assistant Vice President for Finance, Secretary, Assistant Secretary, and any other officer of the University, as designated by the Vice President for Business and Finance, are hereby authorized and directed to execute appropriate certificates setting forth, among other things, the expected use and investment of the proceeds of the Notes in order to show that such expected use and investment will not violate the provisions of Section 103(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, and the regulations issued pursuant thereto, applicable to "arbitrage bonds." Such certificates shall be in such form as may be requested by counsel for the University in connection with the issuance of the Notes.13. The Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University is hereby authorized and empowered to take any and all action it may deem necessary or desirable in connection with the authorization, sale, issuance and delivery of the Notes and the consummation of borrowings thereunder that may be deemed to require approval not previously given herein by the Board of Visitors.14. All covenants, obligations and agreements of the University contained or referred to in this resolution shall be deemed to be covenants, obligations and agreements of the University to the full extent permitted by the Constitution and laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. No covenant, obligation or agreement contained or referred to herein shall be deemed to be a covenant, obligation or agreement of any present or future member of the Board of Visitors of the University or any officer, agent or employee of the University in his individual capacity, and no individual executing the Notes shall be liable personally on the Notes or be subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the issuance thereof, no officer, agent or employee of the University shall incur any personal liability in acting or proceeding or in not acting or not proceeding, in good faith, reasonably and in accordance with the terms of this resolution.15. In accordance with the Act, the Governor of Virginia is hereby requested to approve the issuance by the University of the Notes pursuant to this resolution and the Indenture and the Note Purchase and Credit Agreements.16. This resolution shall be effective immediately, subject to the approval of the Governor of Virginia as set forth in the preceding section hereof.

ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
------------------------------------------

The Board accepted gifts in the amount of $8,701,400 including gifts to the Rector and Visitors and gifts received through University-Related Foundations for the period July 1, 1983 through December 31, 1983, and also Grants and Contracts in the amount of $19,146,757 for the same period.

REPORT ON THE CAPITAL CAMPAIGN
------------------------------

Vice President Marion Peavey reported that the Capital Campaign has exceeded its $90 million goal. He added that 75% of the $97.7 million contributed thus far under the Campaign came from outside of Virginia. He said that while we have exceeded our goal in some areas, we are behind in our objectives in funds for new facilities, renovations and equipment, in the Jefferson Scholars Program funds for the preservation of Jeffersonian Buildings and Grounds, programs for the Miller Center and some other categories.

APPROVAL OF 1984 INTERNAL AUDIT SCHEDULE
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1984 Internal Audit Schedule as presented by the Director of Audits, be and it is hereby approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period September 11, 1983 through January 10, 1984, as presented by the Director of Audits, be and it is hereby approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

AUTHORIZATION TO EFFECT WORKING CAPITAL AND EQUIPMENT ADVANCES TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AUXILIARY SERVICES FOUNDATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Vice President for Business and Finance be and he is hereby authorized to effect a working capital advance to the University of Virginia Auxiliary Services Foundation in an amount not to exceed $100,000 for initial inventories and start-up costs and to advance equipment assets to the Foundation in the form of golf course operating and maintenance equipment valued at approximately $300,000.BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the terms and repayment schedule related to the working capital and equipment advances be determined by the Vice President for Business and Finance.

INVESTMENT IN STOCK CORPORATION
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Board of Visitors established a Special Committee on Fraternity and Sorority Housing to consider various means of improving the existing housing; andWHEREAS the Special Committee after considering various alternatives, has determined that the limited partnership approach is the most feasible; andWHEREAS the City of Charlottesville has, on its own initiative, sought to establish a historic district which includes most of the fraternity and sorority housing system; andWHEREAS it is in the best interest of the University that its endowment funds participate as an investor in the formation of limited partnerships for the purpose of renovating fraternity and sorority houses;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that there shall be created a stock corporation under Virginia law to act as General Partner of such partnerships; andFURTHER RESOLVED that the University's Endowment Fund shall contribute the necessary capital, not to exceed three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) to such corporation in exchange for all its outstanding stock; andFURTHER RESOLVED that the University's Endowment Fund shall guarantee the leasehold obligations of fraternity or sorority organizations who may lease renovated fraternity or sorority houses from such limited partnerships, and pledge its assets for the security thereof, provided however that such guarantees shall be limited with respect to each fraternity or sorority leasehold obligation to one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000); andFURTHER RESOLVED that the officers of the University are hereby authorized to take such actions in furtherance of the foregoing as to them may seem necessary or desirable, including executing in the name of the University all necessary documents.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty of Clinch Valley College:Mr. Walter C. Crouse as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, Clinch Valley College, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Paul D. Elosser as Chairman of the Department of Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 3:00 p.m.

RCB:jb