 TEI to HTML

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA October 2, 1987
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 11:05 a.m., in Open Session on October 1, 1987, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Joshua P. Darden, Jr., President Robert M. O'Neil, John S. Battle, Jr., Charles L. Brown, James S. Cremins, Henry A. Dudley, Jerry V. Glover, Lemuel E. Lewis, Fred G. Pollard, Carl W. Smith, Edgar N. Weaver, and Jesse B. Wilson, III. Absent: William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, Edward E. Elson, S. Buford Scott, James L. Trinkle, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., George G. Grattan, IV, Ernest H. Ern, William H. Muller, Raymond M. Haas, and Marion B. Peavey were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 3:00 p.m., in Open Session on October 2, 1987, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Joshua P. Darden, Jr., President Robert M. O'Neil, John S. Battle, Jr., Charles L. Brown, William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, James S. Cremins, Henry A. Dudley, Jerry V. Glover, Lemuel E. Lewis, Fred G. Pollard, S. Buford Scott, Carl W. Smith, Edgar N. Weaver, and Jesse B. Wilson, III. Absent: Edward E. Elson, James L. Trinkle, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., George G. Grattan, IV, Ernest H. Ern, Raymond M. Haas, Marion B. Peavey, and Paul R. Gross were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of May 29, 1987, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 3:00 p.m., on October 2, 1987.

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE RECTOR
--------------------------

The Rector announced that he had received a letter from Mr. Roger M. Leachman of the Library Staff, requesting that the Board of Visitors consider his appeal from President O'Neil's August 31, 1987 decision to accept the Faculty Senate Hearing Board's report in the grievance involving Mr. Leachman and the University Library Administration.

The Rector noted that the 1985 Manual of the Board of Visitors (Section 5.1) provides that the Board may consider such appeals at its discretion, that the Board has discussed the request and that the Board has elected not to consider the appeal.

CHANGE IN THE BOARD OF VISITORS MEETING DATES FOR 1988
------------------------------------------------------

NAMING THE CHILDREN'S REHABILITATION CENTER THE JOHN AND PATRICIA KLUGE CHILDREN'S REHABILITATION CENTER AND RESEARCH INSTITUTE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESFINANCE COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTIONS
---------

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION TO NON SALARIED FACULTY OF DR. LADISLAU STEINER
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

CORRECTION IN THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. ROGER A. RUTH
--------------------------------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE RE-ELECTION OF MS. DAPHNE G. SPAIN
----------------------------------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF BERNIEL B. BJORKLUND
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

RETIREMENT
----------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

DEATH OF DR. CHARLES J. FRANKEL
-------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. LAWRENCE R. QUARLES
--------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. THOMAS J. GATES
----------------------------

DEATH OF DR. KARL F. MENK
-------------------------

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EDWARD W. AND BETTY KNIGHT SCRIPPS PROFESSORSHIP IN INTERNAL MEDICINE (PREVENTIVE CARDIOLOGY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FERMAN W. PERRY PROFESSORSHIP IN THE SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PAUL JANSSEN PROFESSORSHIP IN INTERNAL MEDICINE (GASTROENTEROLOGY)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOHN MARSHALL MONEY PROFESSORSHIP IN THE SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RE-ELECTION OF MR. HENRY H. FOWLER TO THE COUNCIL OF THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN INTEREST RATE ON UNIVERSITY FACULTY HOME MORTGAGE LOANS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL REPORT PERTAINING TO EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATEUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA JOHN LEE PRATT FUNDS AS OF JUNE 30, 1987
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unexpended Balance 06/30/86

1986-87 Expenditures

Board Approved Allocations(1) (1)Allocations represent amounts approved by The Board of Visitors for 1987-88.

Unexpended Balance 06/30/87

Arts and Sciences Biology

Student Support

$ 55,818.04

$ 56,109.49

$ 129,000.00

$ 128,708.55

Faculty Salary Supplement

13,886.49

15,636.97

9,812.00

8,061.52

\* \*Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research and Equipment

115,958.67

113,870.23

294,636.00

296,724.44

$ 185,663.20

$ 185,616.69

$ 433,448.00

$ 433,494.51

Chemistry

Student Support

$ 18,731.72

$ 6,181.31

$ 25,000.00

$ 37,550.41

Faculty Salary Supplement

11,018.58

9,661.40

8,200.00

9,557.18

\*Research and Equipment

135,400.26

37,433.37

100,000.00

197,966.89

$ 165,150.56

$ 53,276.08

$ 133,200.00

$ 245,074.48

Mathematics

Student Support

$ 139,732.53

$ 101,721.00

$ 100,000.00

$ 138,011.53

Faculty Salary Supplement

23,835.92

33,108.03

41,000.00

31,727.89

\*Research and Equipment

6,106.40

\---

12,000.00

18,106.40

$ 169,674.85

$ 134,829.03

$ 153,000.00

$ 187,845.82

Physics

Student Support

$ 16,167.62

\---

\---

$ 16,167.62

Faculty Salary Supplement

29,032.98

\---

\---

29,032.98

\*Research and Equipment

324,261.05\*\* \*\*06/30/86 Balance was adjusted to reflect FY 85-86 expenditure of $30,491.35.

$ 106,157.91

$ 216,000.00

434,103.14

$ 369,461.65

$ 106,157.91

$ 216,000.00

$ 479,303.74

School of Medicine

Student Support

$ 84,984.24

$ 97,620.81

$ 85,900.00

$ 73,263.43

\*Research and Equipment

718,965.07

557,268.42

483,396.00

645,092.65

$ 803,949.31

$ 654,889.23

$ 569,296.00

$ 718,356.08

$1,693,899.57

$1,134,768.94

$1,504,944.00

$2,064,074.63

Adjustment for Negative Balance in 0-45950

(1,725,827.90)

Net Balance

$ 338,246.73

(See Report on page 3304)

Unexpended Balance 06/30/861986-87 ExpendituresBoard Approved Allocations(1) (1)Allocations represent amounts approved by The Board of Visitors for 1987-88. Unexpended Balance 06/30/87Arts and Sciences BiologyStudent Support$ 55,818.04$ 56,109.49$ 129,000.00$ 128,708.55Faculty Salary Supplement13,886.4915,636.979,812.008,061.52\* \*Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research and Equipment115,958.67113,870.23294,636.00296,724.44$ 185,663.20$ 185,616.69$ 433,448.00$ 433,494.51ChemistryStudent Support$ 18,731.72$ 6,181.31$ 25,000.00$ 37,550.41Faculty Salary Supplement11,018.589,661.408,200.009,557.18\*Research and Equipment135,400.2637,433.37100,000.00197,966.89$ 165,150.56$ 53,276.08$ 133,200.00$ 245,074.48MathematicsStudent Support$ 139,732.53$ 101,721.00$ 100,000.00$ 138,011.53Faculty Salary Supplement23,835.9233,108.0341,000.0031,727.89\*Research and Equipment6,106.40---12,000.0018,106.40$ 169,674.85$ 134,829.03$ 153,000.00$ 187,845.82PhysicsStudent Support$ 16,167.62------$ 16,167.62Faculty Salary Supplement29,032.98------29,032.98\*Research and Equipment324,261.05\*\* \*\*06/30/86 Balance was adjusted to reflect FY 85-86 expenditure of $30,491.35. $ 106,157.91$ 216,000.00434,103.14$ 369,461.65$ 106,157.91$ 216,000.00$ 479,303.74School of MedicineStudent Support$ 84,984.24$ 97,620.81$ 85,900.00$ 73,263.43\*Research and Equipment718,965.07557,268.42483,396.00645,092.65$ 803,949.31$ 654,889.23$ 569,296.00$ 718,356.08$1,693,899.57$1,134,768.94$1,504,944.00$2,064,074.63Adjustment for Negative Balance in 0-45950(1,725,827.90)Net Balance$ 338,246.73

Allocations represent amounts approved by The Board of Visitors for 1987-88.

Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts.

06/30/86 Balance was adjusted to reflect FY 85-86 expenditure of $30,491.35.

APPROVAL TO NEGOTIATE AND EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH ELEKTA INSTRUMENT CORPORATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad Debts

$ 3,557,451.72

Indigent Care

12,847,182.52

\---------------

$16,404,634.24

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR THE RIVANNA WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF HENNINGSON, DURHAM AND RICHARDSON FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN FOR THE MEDICAL RESEARCH BUILDING-4, INTERIOR COMPLETION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF RE-ROOFING PLANS FOR PAVILION X
-------------------------------------------

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION TO MR. FERMAN W. PERRY
------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF GUIDELINES ON HAZING
--------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL MEDICINE AND REHABILITATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF MASTER OF SCIENCE DEGREE PROGRAM IN MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY IN ARCHITECTURAL HISTORY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

President O'Neil said, "We have had a banner year in both public and private support." He noted that the private support figure for the last fiscal year is roughly 38 million dollars, the federal research side shows grants and contracts in the neighborhood of 61 million dollars. The Board voted to accept these gifts and grants.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

President Robert M. O'Neil reported that in the University Division there is underway some $61 million of construction projects, and in the Medical Center there is construction valued at 253 million dollars, mostly the cost of the replacement hospital. Clinch Valley College has construction valued at $1.5 million.

REPORT ON THE AAU SALARY SCALE
------------------------------

President O'Neil reported that in the past three years the average faculty salary for this University has moved from a position of 12th among the public AAU institutions up to fifth. The President said he was encouraged by this report.

The Rector, Mr. Darden, said that only the three California public institutions ranked above the University of Virginia in total faculty compensation. We are tied with the University of Michigan in this ranking.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTIONS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTIONS OF THE JOINT MEETING OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND THE FINANCE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE ELECTION OF DR. WILLIAM H. MULLER AS UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR OF HEALTH POLICY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee regarding the Election of Dr. William H. Muller as University Professor of Health Policy, effective December 15, 1987. The Rector reported that Dr. Muller will serve concurrently as Special Assistant to the President.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

APPOINTMENT
-----------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 3:20 p.m.

RCB:jb

ATTACHMENT A = (Approval of Re-roofing Plans for Pavilion X) June 17, 1987Jeffersonian Restoration Advisory Board MINUTES OF DESIGN COMMITTEE MEETINGDate of Meeting:Location:Attending:Distribution:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A special meeting of the Design Committee was called on June 17th to consider the reroofing of Pavilion X. Toward that end Mr. Jack Waite was invited to discuss recent archaeological findings and give his firm's opinions on the issues involved.

Mr. Howard opened the meeting at 2:00 p.m. and asked for any comments on minutes of the previous meeting. The minutes were ratified as written.

Mr. Clay Palazzo, recently hired as Assistant Architect for the Historic Buildings and Grounds, was introduced to the Committee. He is a 1987 graduate of the masters degree program in design from the University of Virginia School of Architecture. He also has a masters degree in Historic Preservation from Columbia University.

Mr. Jack Waite, partner in the architectural firm of Mendel Mesick Cohen Waite Hall (MMCWH), of Albany, New York, was welcomed. As explained at our last meeting, his firm has been retained as our consultant for preparation of PHASE I of the Historic Structures Report. They have also been retained to research and advise on the roof work for Pavilion X.

Mr. Howard described the background of thinking and discussion during the past five years regarding whether or not to alter principal roof forms and materials on the pavilions and hotels. During that time the one point of agreement was that the scarcity of written or drawn evidence would require thorough investigation of physical evidence, i.e., archaeological investigation. Hence, no major alterations have been executed and, to the extent possible, roof repair has encapsulated older roofing beneath new outer layers. The evidence for balustrades and parapets thought to have been located atop five pavilions and three hotels was also fragmentary and, in most cases, contradictory or too incomplete to act upon. Thus all action on recreating such features was delayed until investigation beneath existing roofing and in archives could be undertaken.

Mr. Waite and Mr. Howard presented slides showing existing conditions at Pavilion X. During the spring term, portions of the slate and metal coverings were removed, revealing small metal plates of the Jeffersonian era. Drainage patterns were shown to have been radically altered since the 1820s, with subsequent elimination of a large wooden attic-zone-like parapet and conversion to a slate covering for most of the roof. Analysis of the materials indicates that the metal is Welsh "tinplate" (wrought iron dipped in pure tin) that would not have been produced after about 1840. The standard plate size was cut in half, yielding plates that were approximately 10'' by 6-1/2'' in size. The plates were locked and nailed along their vertical edges and overlapped along their horizontal edges. Near the lower portion of each roof plane, where roof pitch was minimal, the plates were also soldered on all four sides. Attachment points for brackets, straps and bolts used to hold the parapet in place were located. Paint shadows yielded some evidence of the location and footprint of the parapet. Photographic evidence discovered three years ago shows that the front portion of the parapet was not executed as Jefferson's sketches had shown.

Mr. Waite presented his firm's recommendations, which were: 1. Since the remaining metal clearly shows how Jefferson's workmen had first installed the roof and that the material used apparently lasted many years without trouble (as contrasted with his student room "rooflets"), MMCWH recommends removing all the slate and reestablishing metal as the exposed roofing material.2. The Jeffersonian-era metal is very thin Welsh "tinplate," which is no longer produced. The failure of the original tinplate, due to corrosive effects of the slate covering, has yielded it incapable of being exposed to the elements; nor can it effectively prevent intrusion of water into the attic. MMCWH recommends encapsulating the original metal beneath a thin layer of plywood covered with neoprene, then replicating the metal plates atop that encapsulation, using 30-gauge terne-coated stainless steel. Such an approach would demonstrate Jefferson's essential design concept and craft methodology. It would offer yet another opportunity to resuscitate early construction skills long forgotten and, in this case, unusual even in their own day. Stainless steel, being corrosion resistant, should produce a roof with a longevity of approximately 100 years.3. Another advantage of using terne-coated stainless steel is that it will patinate to a grey color or it can be painted. One disadvantage of painting is that, once begun, it must be continued indefinitely, thus introducing a substantial long-term maintenance cost. Paint research yet to be conducted on less damaged areas of the early roofing should offer some guidance. The recommendation on this issue is that we let the roof patinate to see what the grey tone will be, then reconsider the issue of painting, probably in one or two years from now.4. The final recommendation has to do with the parapet. Archaeological investigation already described indicates that a substantial base of physical evidence for replication exists. Two design issues remain unresolved -- as yet we have only a vague notion of the design of the extreme north and south walls, and reconstruction of the early drainage pattern involves a few details that must be worked out. Both issues are being studied and will be discussed at our next Design Committee meeting, the expectation being that the two unresolved design issues can be dealt with. The task will then be to decide on the philosophical position that should be taken on this opportunity for a major reconstruction of a missing feature. Thus there is no recommendation regarding the parapet at this time.

The Committee discussed all four points at great length, focusing on philosophical views, since the technical issues are reasonably straightforward. The decisions on each recommendation were as follows: 1. Accept the recommendation to remove the slate roof and have a metal roof as the exposed surface.2. Accept the recommendation to replicate the Jeffersonian-era metal in terne-coated stainless steel, training the roofing craftsmen to apply the plates in the original manner while also encapsulating the archaeological evidence.3. Defer a decision on whether or not to paint, pending patination of the stainless steel and further analysis of paint residues found on some portions of the roof.4. Defer a decision on whether or not to reconstruct the parapet, pending resolution of technical matters and discussion of the philosophical impact of this reversal to an earlier condition.

Thus the work on reroofing Pavilion X can proceed immediately, ensuring a weather-tight roof before the cold, rainy season. Additional reviews and approvals will be obtained at the state level by Mr. Howard.

It was also mentioned that we will soon be exploring the possibility of exposing the student room "rooflets," removing the slate secondary roof and rebuilding the wooden rooflets. This experiment, if carried out, will occur at the single student room adjacent to the south facade of Pavilion X. One insurance against leakage may be a neoprene membrane beneath the wood planking of the rooflets. Also, we must grapple with the issue of fire safety, when wood roofing materials are used near working chimneys.

At 4:00 p.m. the meeting adjourned. To all who could attend, thank you. Should there be any corrections to these minutes, please call me at (804) 924-6988. I shall be in touch with you in late summer with regard to our meeting schedule for the 1987-88 academic year. If the coming year is as productive as the last two have been, this Committee will indeed have demonstrated its value. Many thanks for your efforts.

Murray Howard, AIA

Architect for the Historic Buildings & Grounds

JMH/c

(MH/7-17.1-5:1)