 TEI to HTML

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA May 25, 1990
------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 9:00 a.m., in Open Session on May 24, 1990, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Edward E. Elson, President Robert M. O'Neil, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., Wendelin L. White, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. present. Absent: S. Buford Scott. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Hugh P. Kelly, Don E. Detmer, Ernest H. Ern, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., and Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 3:45 p.m., in Open Session on May 25, 1990, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Robert G. Butcher, Rector Pro Tem, President Robert M. O'Neil, President-Elect John T. Casteen, III, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., S. Buford Scott, Wendelin L. White, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. present. Absent: Edward E. Elson. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Hugh P. Kelly, Don E. Detmer, Ernest H. Ern, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., and Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of March 30, 1990, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

RESOLUTION IN OPEN MEETING ON WAIVER OF FIVE DAY NOTICE REQUIREMENT
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 3:45 p.m., on May 25, 1990.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

In compliance with Section 3.1 of the 1985 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the following members were elected to serve on the Executive Committee until the next Annual Meeting in May 1991: Edward E. Elson, Chair, N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, and Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

ESTABLISHMENT AND APPOINTMENT OF A SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO STUDY THE PROCESS OF PRESIDENTIAL SELECTION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced the formation of a Special Committee to Study the Process of Presidential Selection and to recommend to the Board a procedure to be institutionalized or memorialized in the Board Manual. The Committee Members will be: N. Thomas Connally, Chair, Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, Waller H. Horsley, Miss Wendelin L. White, and Edward E. Elson, Ex Officio.

He noted that Miss White will not be on the Board next year but will be a student in this great University. He suggested that the faculty recommend two of its members to serve on this Committee.

The Board adopted a resolution approving the establishment of the Special Committee to Study the Process of Presidential Selection.

SCHEDULE OF MEETING DATES FOR 1991
----------------------------------

January 31 and February 1, 1991

Charlottesville

March 21 and 22, 1991

Charlottesville

May 23 and 24, 1991

Charlottesville

October 3 and 4, 1991

Charlottesville

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEFINANCE COMMITTEEBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPOINTMENT OF A SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE FOR THE PURPOSE OF SELECTING A BOND MANAGER
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTIONS
---------

Election of Part-Time Faculty
-----------------------------

Election of Non-Salaried Faculty
--------------------------------

Election of Clinical Faculty
----------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE ELECTION OF MR. ROBERT J. DAVIS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

RETIREMENTS
-----------

CORRECTION IN THE RETIREMENT OF DR. OSCAR A. THORUP, JR.
--------------------------------------------------------

CANCELLATION OF THE RETIREMENT OF MR. IRWIN R. KONIGSBERG
---------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the retirement of Mr. Irwin R. Konigsberg, Commonwealth Professor of Biology, as announced to the Board on March 30, 1990, is cancelled.

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF MR. IRWIN R. KONIGSBERG AS PROFESSOR EMERITUS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP FOR THE DIRECTOR OF THE CENTER FOR PUBLIC SERVICE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CHARLES H. ROSS, JR., PROFESSORSHIP IN MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CHANGE IN THE NAME OF THE W. NORMAN THORNTON PROFESSORSHIP IN OBSTETRICS AND GYNECOLOGY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1990-1991 BUDGET FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
----------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1990-1991 BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER
------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1990-1991 BUDGET FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1990-1991 MEDICAL CENTER ROOM RATES
---------------------------------------------------

Rate 1989-90

% Increase

Amount of Increase

Rate 1990-91

Daily Room Charge:

Semi-Private

$ 324

4.9%

$16

$ 340

Intensive Care

$ 678

$34

$ 712

and Other

to

5.0%

to

to

Special Care Units

$1,487

$74

$1,561

APPROVAL OF WRITE-OFF OF BAD DEBTS AND FREE SERVICE
---------------------------------------------------

Bad Debt

$ 1,979,706.80

Indigent Care

13,148,783.99

\-----------------

$15,128,490.79

APPROVAL OF THE REPORT OF THE BAD DEBTS COMMITTEE FOR THE FISCAL YEAR, 1989-1990
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Library Fines and Charges

$ 7,243

Parking and Transportation Fines and Charges

$19,540

Uncollectible Advances to Former Employees

$ 3,337

University Press

$ 8,128

Other Charges

$ 8,086

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN RETURNED CHECK FEE
------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF FUNDING FOR THE ACADEMIC ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
--------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF AUTHORIZATION FOR THE VICE PRESIDENT FOR BUSINESS AND FINANCE TO ENTER INTO THE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ALUMNI ASSOCIATION, EFFECTIVE July 1, 1990
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF AUTHORIZATION FOR THE VICE PRESIDENT FOR BUSINESS AND FINANCE TO SEEK STATE APPROVAL OF EARLY RETIREMENT INCENTIVES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTION FOR AUTHORIZATION TO PARTICIPATE IN COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA 9-C BOND ISSUE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:

Section 1. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "Board") (a) covenants to fix, revise, charge and collect charges and surcharges from the University's auxiliary enterprises in connection with the provision of heat and air conditioning by the Project to such auxiliary enterprises so that the revenues therefrom will at all times be sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds issued to finance a portion of the Project as and when the same become due, and to pay a portion of the current expenses of operating the Project (the "Current Expenses") which portion of such Current Expenses shall be a first charge on such charges and surcharges and which portion of such Current Expenses shall be at least equal to a percentage of such Current Expenses determined by dividing the total annual steam usage of the auxiliary enterprises utilizing the Project by the total annual steam usage attributable to the Project (the "Allocated Current Expenses"); and (b) pledges such charges and surcharges to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds issued to finance a portion of the Project. The Board further covenants that such charges and surcharges will be fixed, revised, charged and collected so that the revenues therefrom, after payment of Allocated Current Expenses, will at all times be sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds issued to finance a portion of the Project as and when the same become due, and to pay debt service on any outstanding obligations that have been previously issued which are secured by the charges and surcharges pledged herein, that portion of the Bonds issued to finance a portion of the Project to be secured on a parity with such obligations (other than any obligations secured by a prior right in the rentals, fees and charges pledged herein.) Any charges and surcharges pledged herein in excess of the amounts required for the payment of Allocated Current Expenses, the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds issued to finance a portion of the Project when due, and debt service on any outstanding obligations which are secured by such charges and surcharges may be used by the University for any other proper purpose.

Section 2. It is hereby found, determined, and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates and advice of appropriate officials of the University, as shown on the Financial Feasibility Study attached hereto as Exhibit A, the anticipated revenues received from the charges and surcharges pledged herein will be sufficient to pay Allocated Current Expenses, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds issued to finance a portion of the Project as the same become due, and debt service on any outstanding obligations which are secured by the charges and surcharges pledged herein so long as the aggregate amount of debt service actually payable in any bond year on the Bonds issued to finance a portion of the Project does not exceed the amounts assumed in the Feasibility Study, unless the University provides the Governor and the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth of Virginia with satisfactory evidence that the charges and surcharges pledged herein will also be sufficient to pay the additional amount of actual debt service which for any bond year exceeds the amount stated above.

Section 3. The Board covenants that so long as the bonds are outstanding, the University will provide to the Treasurer of Virginia on or before each November 1, a written report illustrating the calculation of Allocated Current Expenses for the year ending on the preceding June 30 and illustrating the calculation of estimated Allocated Current Expenses for the University's current fiscal year. Such report shall be in such form and contain such detail as to demonstrate annual compliance with the covenants contained in this resolution.

Section 4. The Board covenants that so long as the bonds are outstanding, the University will pay to the Treasurer of Virginia, not less than 30 days before each interest or principal and interest payment date, the amount certified by the Treasurer of Virginia to be due and payable on such date as principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds issued on behalf of the University to finance a portion of the Project.

Section 5. The Board covenants that the University will pay from time to time its proportionate share of all expenses incurred in connection with the sale and issuance of the Bonds and all expenses thereafter incurred in connection with the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds, all as certified by the Treasurer of Virginia to the University.

Section 6. The Board covenants to proceed with the construction of the Project with due diligence and that the University will spend all of the proceeds derived from the sale of the Bonds issued to finance a portion of the Project for costs associated with the Project. The Board further covenants that the University, either alone or in conjunction with the Treasurer of Virginia, will, to the extent permitted by Virginia law, take all other actions necessary to maintain the exemption of interest on the Bonds from gross income under Federal and Virginia law and, unless advised in writing by a firm of attorneys nationally recognized in the subject of tax-exempt obligations that such compliance is not necessary in order to maintain such exemption, to comply with the provisions contained in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), relating to tax-exempt obligations, including without limitation (a) refunding any obligations previously issued to finance the Project within 30 days of the issuance of the Bonds, (b) restricting the yield on the investment of the proceeds of the Bonds, including amounts treated as proceeds by the Department of the Treasury regulations promulgated pursuant to the Code, and (c) paying any required rebate to the United States.

Section 7. The Board covenants that for so long as the Bonds are outstanding the University will not enter into any operating lease, management contract or similar agreement with any person or entity, other than a state or local governmental unit, for all or any portion of the Project without first obtaining the written approval of the Treasurer of Virginia and a firm of attorneys nationally recognized in the subject of tax-exempt obligations.

Section 8. This resolution shall take effect immediately.

The undersigned Secretary to the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia does hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of a resolution adopted at a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia duly convened and held on May 25, 1990, at which a quorum was present and voting, and that such resolution is now in full force and effect.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of the University of Virginia this \_\_\_\_ day of May, 1990.

(SEAL)

APPROVAL OF A UTILITIES EASEMENT AT THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF THE NORTH GROUNDS OF THE UNIVERSITY TO THE ALBEMARLE COUNTY SERVICE AUTHORITY TO PERMIT THE CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF A SANITARY SEWER LINE TO SERVE THE COLONNADES PROJECT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF HUGHES GROUP ARCHITECTS FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN FOR THE NORTH GROUNDS RECREATION FACILITY PROJECT AND THE SLAUGHTER RECREATION FACILITY PROJECT
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING ACQUISITION OF RADIOTHERAPY ONCOLOGY FACILITY AND EQUIPMENT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION APPROVING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA SUBSTANCE ABUSE STUDIES FOUNDATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ADVISORY COUNCIL AND CHANGES IN THE BY-LAWS OF THE COUNCIL
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED CHANGES IN TIAA/CREF RETIREMENT PLAN
---------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1989-90 and 1990-91 BUDGETS OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATE FOR SPECIFIC DEPARTMENTS IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND ARTS AND SCIENCES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PROPOSED REVISIONS TO BOARD OF VISITORS GUIDELINES FOR STUDENT ACTIVITIES CURRENT FUND ALLOCATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ceiling on the aggregate amount allocated to all such organizations will be the then current total student activities fees. Each organization whose budget is reviewed by the Student Council will have a right of appeal to the Student Activities Committee. Any student or student groups may also appeal to the Student Council and to the Student Activities Committee. The Student Activities Committee shall examine on its own motion any budgets that may be approved by the Student Council for organizations deemed by the committee to be within the categories noted above.

If no appeal or motion is taken the Student Council Vice President for Student Organizations writes the chairman of the Student Activities Committee requesting that the allocations for those organizations be released to the Student Activities Business Manager. When the Student Activities Business Manager receives the funds from the University they are deposited into a bank checking account. Expenditures from the allocations can be made provided the student organization completes the proper authorization forms with the Student Activities Business Manager.

BE IT RESOLVED that the foregoing amendments to the Guidelines for Student Activities Current Fund Allocation shall apply to all student organization funding requests that are pending on, or are made after, July 1, 1990.

APPROVAL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FACILITIES MASTER PLAN
-------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF DR. WILLIAM H. MULLER, JR., AS VICE PRESIDENT FOR HEALTH AFFAIRS EMERITUS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF KENNETH R. CRISPELL, M.D., AS VICE PRESIDENT FOR HEALTH AFFAIRS EMERITUS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF MR. JOHN J. OWEN AS VICE PRESIDENT FOR DEVELOPMENT EMERITUS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF THOMAS H. HUNTER, M.D., AS VICE PRESIDENT FOR MEDICAL AFFAIRS EMERITUS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF MR. VINCENT SHEA AS VICE PRESIDENT FOR BUSINESS AND FINANCE EMERITUS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF MR. JOSEPH C. SMIDDY AS CHANCELLOR EMERITUS OF CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF A STATEMENT ON ANTI-DISCRIMINATION
----------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING ACQUISITION OF CERTAIN PROPERTIES FOR THE HEALTH SCIENCES CENTER PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

Mr. O'Neil reported that in the University Division there are construction projects valued at $191,000,000. About 20% of this comes from state general funds. He said that in the Health Sciences Division projects are valued at $244 million, of which roughly 10% is from state general funds. At Clinch Valley College where the amount of construction has been increasing, it has now reached $5.3 million, virtually all from state general funds.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported that in the private support area there has been a very impressive and encouraging increase of 11.4% of gifts, grants and bequests from all private sources. He expressed hope that it would continue all through the fiscal year.

NOMINATION OF DEAN HARRY W. PORTER, JR., FOR RE-ELECTION TO THE ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW BOARD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF EXECUTIVE SALARIES
------------------------------

RESOLUTION CONCERNING INVESTMENTS IN COMPANIES DOING BUSINESS IN SOUTH AFRICA
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT OF STATEMENT BY LEIGH B. MIDDLEDITCH, JR.
------------------------------------------------

Mr. Middleditch told the Board that he has studied the issue of investments in South Africa with great care. He stated that he is unalterably opposed to apartheid and everything that it represents in the current system in South Africa. He expressed concern that the University take a position in what he deems to be essentially a political issue. He quoted a letter from Professor Jacob Levenson, former Chair of the Proxy Advisory Committee as follows: "Especially on the most urgent question the need to preserve objectivity and neutrality precludes the University from institutionally taking a political position. It remains our conviction that any policy designed to affect the government and society of South Africa should be arrived at by the political process." Mr. Middleditch said that he agreed with the statement. He said he did not want a future Board of Visitors, when they are having to address what he deems to be another sensitive political issue, feel bound by the decision of this Board without knowing that at least there was dissent based on reasons stated. He advised that he would vote against the resolution.

REPORT OF STATEMENT BY JESSE B. WILSON, III
-------------------------------------------

Mr. Jesse B. Wilson, III, stated that he feels that the University's policy on divestment has been the correct policy, and therefore he would cast his vote against the resolution to totally divest in companies having direct investments in South Africa.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 4:10 p.m.

RCB:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETINGVOTE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AYES:

15

NAYS:

0

ABSENT DURING VOTE:

1

ABSENT DURING MEETING:

1

Meeting Date: May 25, 1990

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the

VOTEAYES:15NAYS:0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE:1ABSENT DURING MEETING:1

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Edward E. Elson

absent

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

yes

Jesse B. Wilson, III

yes

Thomas E. Worrell, Jr.

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on May 25, 1990 - 1:30 p.m., a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE (yes or no)COMMENTSW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.yesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesN. Thomas ConnallyyesHovey S. DabneyyesEdward E. ElsonabsentWaller H. HorsleyyesJ. Thomas HulveyyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. KlugeyesArnold H. LeonyesLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.yesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr.yesS. Buford ScottyesJesse B. Wilson, IIIyesThomas E. Worrell, Jr.yes

ATTACHMENT A UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CENTER FOR ADVANCED STUDIES 444 CABELL HALL CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA 22903 Office of the Director OUTCOME OF MEETING OF THE SPECIAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON THE PRATT FUNDS 05/11/90
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1\. Approved commitment to the School of Medicine:

$ 1,052,000

2\. Approved commitment to the College of A. & S.:

1,021,800

Total

$ 2,073,800

1\. Approved commitment to the School of Medicine:$ 1,052,0002. Approved commitment to the College of A. & S.:1,021,800Total$ 2,073,800

3\. In the case of each school, the approved commitment exceeds the maximum allocation for the fiscal year, which by decision of the Vice President for Business and Finance would be $1,000,000, or $2,000,000 total for the two schools.1 1Memorandum from LWS to HPK and PRG, 05/01/90 The committee recognized that both schools have at present internally-committed, but unspent Pratt Funds available to them. In each case this sum exceeds the amount over $1 million voted for specific projects during this meeting.

Memorandum from LWS to HPK and PRG, 05/01/90

The committee, which includes the Dean of Faculty and the Dean of Medicine, therefore voted further thatactual expenditures from funds to be approved by the Board of Visitors inthis round will be held to a total of $2,000,000 during the fiscal year ahead. This means that the amounts in excess of $1,000,000 for each school shown under (1) and (2), above, will be covered by Pratt funds currently committed to the school but not yet spent. The vote in favor of this arrangement was unanimous.

4\. The committee voted to request from the Director, Center for Advanced Studies, by the fall of 1990, afull and detailedreport on the status and financial history of the Pratt Fund, the data to be obtained in study of the records and from interviews with those (central administration) financial officers who are in charge of the Fund, together with recommendations for future management and reporting.

SCHOOL OF MEDICINE Budget Proposal For Pratt Bequest
----------------------------------------------------

Research:

1990-91

Total

Center for Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Spectroscopy of Animal Models (Brookeman)

$200,000

$200,000

Support Grant for the Medical Center Molecular Simulating Laboratory (Smith)

$ 24,500

$ 24,500

Support of Graduate Students (Owens)

$146,000

$146,000

Image Processing Center (Merickel)

$ 76,500

$ 76,500

Protein & Nuclei Acid Res. Facility (Fox)

$ 67,500

$ 67,500

UVA Lymphocyte Culture Center (Herr)

$ 25,000

$ 25,000

Support for FACS Facility (Isakson)

$ 19,000

$ 19,000

Mass Spectrometry Facility (Savory)

$ 44,500

$ 44,500

Dual-mentor Ph.D. Program in Molecular Medicine (Weber)

$ 5,000

$ 5,000

Multidimensional Imaging of the Heart (Kaul)

$ 30,000

$ 30,000

Development of Biomedical Scanning Probe Microscope Facility (Takeyasu)

$101,500

$101,500

Molecular Probe Core Laboratory (Savory)

$ 26,000

$ 26,000

Support for the Central Microscope Facility (Flickinger)

$136,500

$136,500

Scholarships for Minority Students (Apprey)

$150,000

$150,000

TOTAL AMOUNT

$1,052,000

$1,052,000

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt Funds in the School of Medicine. In accordance with the Will, funds may be used by the School of Medicine for scholarships for medical students and research. The annual disbursement of the estate is 2 million dollars to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and Medicine.

Research:1990-91TotalCenter for Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Spectroscopy of Animal Models (Brookeman)$200,000$200,000Support Grant for the Medical Center Molecular Simulating Laboratory (Smith)$ 24,500$ 24,500Support of Graduate Students (Owens)$146,000$146,000Image Processing Center (Merickel)$ 76,500$ 76,500Protein & Nuclei Acid Res. Facility (Fox)$ 67,500$ 67,500UVA Lymphocyte Culture Center (Herr)$ 25,000$ 25,000Support for FACS Facility (Isakson)$ 19,000$ 19,000Mass Spectrometry Facility (Savory)$ 44,500$ 44,500Dual-mentor Ph.D. Program in Molecular Medicine (Weber)$ 5,000$ 5,000Multidimensional Imaging of the Heart (Kaul)$ 30,000$ 30,000Development of Biomedical Scanning Probe Microscope Facility (Takeyasu)$101,500$101,500Molecular Probe Core Laboratory (Savory)$ 26,000$ 26,000Support for the Central Microscope Facility (Flickinger)$136,500$136,500Scholarships for Minority Students (Apprey)$150,000$150,000TOTAL AMOUNT$1,052,000$1,052,000

SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES Budget Proposal For Pratt Bequest
-------------------------------------------------------------

Biology

Chemistry

Mathematics

Physics

Student Supports: Grad. & Undergrad.

100,000

121,500

184,976

107,500

Faculty Salary Supplement

\-0-

16,000

69,802

65,100

Equipment

100,000

40,000

22,922

194,000

TOTAL

$200,000

$177,500

$277,700

$366,600

TOTAL AMOUNT

$1,021,800

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt funds of the four departments in Arts and Sciences. The four departments designated in the Will were Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics; and the funds could be used in three categories displayed in the budget, scholarships for outstanding students, supplementation of faculty salaries, and equipment. The annual disbursement of the estate is 2 million dollars to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and Medicine.

BiologyChemistryMathematicsPhysicsStudent Supports: Grad. & Undergrad.100,000121,500184,976107,500Faculty Salary Supplement-0-16,00069,80265,100Equipment100,00040,00022,922194,000TOTAL$200,000$177,500$277,700$366,600TOTAL AMOUNT$1,021,800

SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES Budget Proposal For Pratt Bequest
-------------------------------------------------------------

Biology

Chemistry

Mathematics

Physics

Student Supports: Grad. & Undergrad.

$100,000

$ -0-

$102,000

\-0-

Faculty Salary Supplement

$ -0-

$ 20,000

$ 48,000

$ 83,700

Equipment

$207,000

$130,000

$13,000

$142,000

TOTAL

$307,000

$150,000

$163,000

$225,700

TOTAL AMOUNT

$845,700

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt funds of the four departments in Arts and Sciences. The four departments designated in the Will were Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics; and the funds could be used in three categories displayed in the budget, scholarships for outstanding students, supplementation of faculty salaries, and equipment. The annual disbursement of the estate is 1.2 million dollars to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and Medicine.

BiologyChemistryMathematicsPhysicsStudent Supports: Grad. & Undergrad.$100,000$ -0-$102,000-0-Faculty Salary Supplement$ -0-$ 20,000$ 48,000$ 83,700Equipment$207,000$130,000$13,000$142,000TOTAL$307,000$150,000$163,000$225,700TOTAL AMOUNT$845,700

SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES Budget Proposal For Pratt Bequest
-------------------------------------------------------------

Biology

Chemistry

Mathematics

Physics

Student Supports: Grad. & Undergrad.

\-0-

\-0-

\-0-

\-0-

Faculty Salary Supplement

\-0-

\-0-

$5,000

\-0-

Equipment

\-0-

$146,900

\-0-

\-0-

TOTAL

\-0-

$146,900

$5,000

\-0-

TOTAL AMOUNT

$151,900

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt funds of the four departments in Arts and Sciences. The four departments designated in the Will were Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics; and the funds could be used in three categories displayed in the budget, scholarships for outstanding students, supplementation of faculty salaries, and equipment. The annual disbursement of the estate is 1.2 million dollars to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and Medicine.

BiologyChemistryMathematicsPhysicsStudent Supports: Grad. & Undergrad.-0--0--0--0-Faculty Salary Supplement-0--0-$5,000-0-Equipment-0-$146,900-0--0-TOTAL-0-$146,900$5,000-0-TOTAL AMOUNT $151,900

SCHOOL OF MEDICINE Budget Proposal For Pratt Bequest
----------------------------------------------------

Research

1989-90

Total

Mass Spectrometry Facility (Savory)

$ 46,000

$ 46,000

Central Electron Microscope Facility (Flickinger)

$ 57,000

$ 57,000

Fluorescence-Activated Cell Sorter Laboratory (Owens)

$ 54,000

$ 54,000

Protein and Nucleic Acid Research Facility (Fox)

$ 85,000

$ 85,000

Support of Graduate Programs in the Medical School (Owens)

$126,000

$126,000

Molecular Probe Core Laboratory (Savory)

$ 47,600

$ 47,600

UVA Brain Resource Facility (Brashear)

$ 27,500

$ 27,500

Image Processing Center (Merickel)

$ 50,600

$ 50,600

Support Grant for the Medical Ctr. Computer Graphics Lab (Smith)

$ 10,500

$ 10,500

TOTAL

$504,200

$504,200

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt Funds in the School of Medicine. In accordance with the Will, funds may be used by the School of Medicine for scholarships for medical students and research. The annual disbursement of the estate is 1.2 million dollars to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and Medicine.

Research1989-90TotalMass Spectrometry Facility (Savory)$ 46,000$ 46,000Central Electron Microscope Facility (Flickinger)$ 57,000$ 57,000Fluorescence-Activated Cell Sorter Laboratory (Owens)$ 54,000$ 54,000Protein and Nucleic Acid Research Facility (Fox)$ 85,000$ 85,000Support of Graduate Programs in the Medical School (Owens)$126,000$126,000Molecular Probe Core Laboratory (Savory)$ 47,600$ 47,600UVA Brain Resource Facility (Brashear)$ 27,500$ 27,500Image Processing Center (Merickel)$ 50,600$ 50,600Support Grant for the Medical Ctr. Computer Graphics Lab (Smith)$ 10,500$ 10,500TOTAL$504,200$504,200

SCHOOL OF MEDICINE Budget Proposal For Pratt Bequest
----------------------------------------------------

Research

1989-90

Total

Request for Equipment Purchase (Flickinger)

$ 10,000

$ 10,000

Berne Symposium (Duling)

$ 6,700

$ 6,700

TOTAL AMOUNT

$ 16,700

$ 16,700

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt Funds in the School of Medicine. In accordance with the Will, funds may be used by the School of Medicine for scholarships for medical students and research. The annual disbursement of the estate is 1.2 million dollars to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and Medicine.

Research1989-90TotalRequest for Equipment Purchase (Flickinger)$ 10,000$ 10,000Berne Symposium (Duling)$ 6,700$ 6,700TOTAL AMOUNT$ 16,700$ 16,700