 TEI to HTML

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA May 24, 1991
------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 9:00 a.m., in Open Session on Thursday, May 23, 1991, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Edward E. Elson, President John T. Casteen, III, Adam S. Arthur, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., S. Buford Scott, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Absent: Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Ernest H. Ern, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Raymond M. Haas, Don E. Detmer and Hugh P. Kelly were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 4:25 p.m., in Open Session on Friday, May 24, 1991, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Edward E. Elson, President John T. Casteen, III, Adam S. Arthur, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., S. Buford Scott, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Absent: Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge and Arnold H. Leon. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Ernest H. Ern, Raymond M. Haas, and Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr. were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of March 22, 1991, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, separation or resignation of faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of The Code of Virginia.(b) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for consultation with the General Counsel pertaining to actual and probable litigation, or other specific legal matters requiring the provision of legal advice by Counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of The Code of Virginia.(c) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with, and receiving briefings from General Counsel and other University officials regarding specific legal matters requiring the provision of legal advice by Counsel as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A. (7) of The Code of Virginia.

Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 4:00 p.m.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Wayne M. Alves as Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective March 1, 1991.Ms. Susan M. Anderson as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective May 1, 1991.Mr. Brian Balogh as Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Vivian L. Braciale as Associate Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Thomas H. Carpenter as Associate Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Jiande Chen as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective November 1, 1990.Ms. Jessica R. Feldman as Assistant Professor of English, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Richard S. Fowler as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective April 1, 1991.Mr. Stephan Fuchs as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Elizabeth Hudson as Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Michael G. Kurilla as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. John W. Lord as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective January 1, 1991.Ms. Dayna B. Matthew as Assistant Professor of Law, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Robert S. Michel as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Tejumola Olaniyan as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Wen-Chin Ouyang as Acting Assistant Professor of Arabic Languages and Literatures, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Thomas Piccariello as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective February 1, 1991.Mr. John H. Porter as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective February 1, 1991.Mr. William F. Ruddiman as Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Elizabeth A. Scarlett as Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. David L. Stokes as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective March 1, 1991.Mr. Bruce Thompson, Jr. as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective January 1, 1991.Mr. Johannes H. Van Der Merwe as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, for the period February 11, 1991 through March 21, 1991.Mr. J. Hoult Verkerke as Assistant Professor of Law, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Heather A. Warren as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective January 16, 1992.Mr. Reid E. Whitlock as Associate Professor of Business Administration, for two years, effective September 1, 1991.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of Chairholder(s)Mr. Paul E. Allaire as Mac Wade Professor of Engineering, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Whitfield O. Broome as Frank S. Kaulback, Jr., Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Robert E. Johnson as John L. Newcomb Professor in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Saul Levmore as Class of 1962 Professor of Law, effective July 1, 1991. Mr. Levmore will continue as Barron F. Black Research Professor of Law.Mr. Graham C. Lilly as Class of 1948 Professor of Scholarly Research in Law, for two years, effective July 1, 1991. Mr. Lilly will continue as Armistead M. Dobie Professor of Law.Mr. John H. Lindgren, Jr. as Consumer Bankers Association Professor of Retail Banking, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. David A. Martin as Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. John R. Nesselroade as Hugh Scott Hamilton Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Harry W. Porter as Elson Professor of Architecture, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Frederick S. Richardson as Commonwealth Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. George A. Rutherglen as John V. Ray Research Professor of Law, for two years, effective July 1, 1991. Mr. Rutherglen will continue as John Allan Love Professor of Law.Mr. Stephen A. Schuker as Commonwealth Professor of History, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Robert E. Scott as Albert Clark Tate, Jr. Professor of Law, for two years, effective July 1, 1991. Mr. Scott will continue as Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Professor of Law.Mr. Neil H. Snyder as Ralph A. Beeton Professor of Free Enterprise, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Paul B. Stephan, III as Percy Brown, Jr. Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1991.(b) Re-Election of Chairholder(s)Mr. Robert L. Grinaker as Visiting Carman G. Blough Professor of Accounting, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.(c) Leaves of Absence of Chairholder(s)Mr. Robert Langbaum, James Branch Cabell Professor of English and American Literature, for the period January 16, 1992 through May 31, 1992, with partial pay, to continue research on a book.Mr. W. Dexter Whitehead, Alumni Professor of Physics, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, without pay, for personal reasons.(d) Change of Title of Chairholder(s)Mr. John E. Gibson from Commonwealth Professor of Electrical Engineering to Commonwealth Professor of Systems Engineering, effective June 30, 1983.Mr. William J. Kehoe from Consumer Bankers Association Professor of Retail Banking to William F. O'Dell Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Peter W. Low from Hardy Cross Dillard Professor of Law to Hardy Cross Dillard Professor of Law and Horace W. Goldsmith Research Professor of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Robert H. Trent from Ralph A. Beeton Professor of Free Enterprise to Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Henry M. Wilbur from Commonwealth Professor of Biology and Professor of Environmental Sciences to B. F. D. Runk Professor of Botany and Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective July 1, 1991.(e) Resignation of Chairholder(s)Mr. Charles P. Emerson, Jr., Commonwealth Professor of Biology, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.(f) Retirement of Chairholder(s)Mr. Enno E. Kraehe, William W. Corcoran Professor of History, effective May 31, 1991. Mr. Kraehe has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1968.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Maurice Apprey as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Raul A. Baragiola as Associate Professor of Engineering Physics and Materials Science, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Jeffrey T. Barth as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry (without term) and Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Alan H. Bridle as Research Professor of Astronomy, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992.Mr. Robert L. Brown as Research Professor of Astronomy, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992.Ms. Donna R. Buck as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Daniel Burke as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Kenneth A. Carle as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for the period July 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991.Dr. Federico Colombo as Visiting Professor of Neurosurgery, effective February 1, 1991.Mr. James J. Condon as Research Professor of Astronomy, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992.Ms. Jean-Marie Cook as Visiting Scholar in English, for the period March 4, 1991 through October 1, 1991.Mr. Errol Cowan as Associate Professor of Planning, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Claudette E. Dalton as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective April 1, 1991.Ms. Angela M. Davis as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Claude Desjardins as Professor of Urology (without term) and Professor of Physiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. William H. Dubbs as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective May 1, 1991.Dr. James E. Ferguson, II as Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology (without term) and Associate Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Frank Fodor as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Catawba Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Edward B. Fomalont as Research Professor of Astronomy, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992.Ms. Gail T. Galasko as Research Associate Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective April 1, 1991.\[t\] Dr. Steven L. Gonias as Associate Professor of Pathology (without term) and Associate Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Andrew Grimshaw as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Hossein Haj-Hariri as Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. David E. Hartman as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Richard B. Hays as Associate Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. David S. Heeschen as Research Professor of Astronomy, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992.Mr. David E. Hogg as Research Professor of Astronomy, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992.Ms. Janet R. Horne as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Phillip A. Ianna as Associate Professor of Astronomy, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Donald J. Innes, Jr. as Associate Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Daniel Keenan as Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Kenneth I. Kellerman as Research Professor of Astronomy, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992.Mr. Anthony R. Kerr as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering and Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1991.Mr. Michael J. Klarman as Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. John L. Knapp as Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Roland H. Krauss as Research Associate Professor of Engineering Physics, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Harold J. Krent as Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Soo Ik Lee as Professor of Neurology, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Harvey S. Liszt as Research Professor of Astronomy, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992.Mr. Felix J. Lockman as Research Professor of Astronomy, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992.Mr. Eric W. Lott as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Kathleen B. Lynch as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for the period April 16, 1991 through June 30, 1991.Ms. Felicia C. Marston as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Mary P. Martin as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Brian W. Metcalf as Visiting Research Professor of Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Ravinder K. Mittal as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Jennie L. Moody as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective March 1, 1991.Mr. Ravinda Munshi as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective December 1, 1990.Dr. Steven A. Newman as Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Timothy G. O'Rourke as Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Kent C. Olson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Shing-Kuo Pan as Visiting Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective May 1, 1991.Mr. Randy Pausch as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Erle E. Peacock, Jr. as Visiting Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Lawrence H. Phillips, II as Associate Professor of Neurology, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Marian W. Pospieszalski as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective February 16, 1991.Mr. William J. Randolph as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, Dean's Office, for three years, effective April 1, 1991.Ms. Mercedes T. Richards as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Morton S. Roberts as Research Professor of Astronomy, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992.Mr. James K. Roche as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Jeffrey S. Salowe as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Betty H. Sapir as Assistant Professor of French, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Tomio Sasaki as Visiting Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective May 1, 1991.Mr. William T. Scherer as Assistant Professor of Systems Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Timothy Scott as Associate Professor, General Faculty, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Pradip N. Sheth as Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Margaret A. Shupnik as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine (without term) and Associate Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Wayne L. Smith as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective April 1, 1991.Mr. Kenneth M. Sosnowski as Assistant Professor of Pathology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Peter A. Stark, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Ronald J. Stump as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. James L. Sutphen as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Anthony R. Thompson as Research Professor of Astronomy, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1991.Mr. Michael P. Timko as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1990.Mr. Barry E. Turner as Research Professor of Astronomy, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992.Mr. Paul A. Vanden Bout as Research Professor of Astronomy, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992.Dr. Scott R. Vandenberg as Associate Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Lan Vo Ky as Visiting Research Professor of Physics, for the period March 25, 1991 through May 31, 1991.Mr. Franklin E. Wawner as Research Professor of Materials Science, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Elliott N. Weiss as Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Judith A. Wilson as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Henry A. Wooten as Research Professor of Astronomy, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992.Mr. Robert M. deVoursney as Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Mr. Steven A. Balbus from Assistant Professor of Astronomy to Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Marjorie P. Balge from Lecturer, General Faculty to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Bennett I. Bertenthal from Associate Professor of Psychology to Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. George W. Black from Associate Professor of Drama to Professor of Drama, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Robert A. Bloodgood from Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology to Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Louis A. Bloomfield from Assistant Professor of Physics to Associate Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. H. Preston Boggess from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, Roanoke Program to Professor of Pediatrics, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Michael A. Bowers from Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences to Research Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Valentina L. Brashers from Lecturer in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Anne-Marie Cepeda from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program to Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. William L. Clarke from Associate Professor of Pediatrics to Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Robert F. Cook from Associate Professor of French to Professor of French, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Eugene C. Corbett, Jr. from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Dewey Cornell from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Peter T. Cummings from Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering to Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Dean A. Dass from Assistant Professor of Art to Associate Professor of Art, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Charles G. Durbin, Jr. from Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty and Associate Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty and Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. John M. Duva from Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics to Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Mark W. Edmundson from Assistant Professor of English to Associate Professor of English, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Mark J. Elson from Associate Professor of Slavic Languages to Professor of Slavic Languages, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Jeanne C. Fox from Associate Professor of Nursing to Professor of Nursing, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. James B. Francis from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Henry F. Frierson from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Nicholas J. Garber from Associate Professor of Civil Engineering to Professor of Civil Engineering, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Lloyd S. Gray from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. David E. Haines from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. James D. Hamilton from Associate Professor of Economics to Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Daniel P. Harrington from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Mark M. Harris from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty and Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Gregory F. Hayden from Associate Professor of Pediatrics to Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. William R. Hobbs from Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty and Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Paul W. Humphreys from Associate Professor of Philosophy to Professor of Philosophy, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Janine C. Jagger from Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Roger A. Johns from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Clare R. Kinney from Assistant Professor of English to Associate Professor of English, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Nicholas J. Kuhn from Associate Professor of Mathematics to Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Paul R. Lambert from Associate Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery to Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Dan Lawson from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Michael H. Levenson from Associate Professor of English to Professor of English, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. William B. Levy from Research Associate Professor of Neurosurgery to Research Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. David B. Mattern from Instructor, General Faculty to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Aaron L. Mills from Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences to Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Yvonne G. Newberry from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Duane J. Osheim from Associate Professor of History to Professor of History, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Robert C. Patten from Associate Professor of Family Medicine, Roanoke Program to Professor of Family Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. David Perrin from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Phillip E. Pfeifer from Associate Professor of Business Administration to Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Deborah Phillips from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Marek-Jerzy Pindera from Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering to Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Dennis R. Proffitt from Associate Professor of Psychology to Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Timothy L. Pruett from Assistant Professor of Surgery and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Benjamin C. Ray from Associate Professor of Religious Studies to Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Christopher M. Rembold from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Physiology to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Associate Professor of Physiology, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Robert T. Rood from Associate Professor of Astronomy to Professor of Astronomy, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. William T. Ross, Jr. from Associate Professor of Anesthesiology to Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Roger A. Ruth from Associate Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery to Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Elizabeth S. Scott from Associate Professor of Law to Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Delmar D. Short from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program to Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Michael J. Smith from Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs to Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Daphne Spain from Assistant Professor of Planning to Associate Professor of Planning, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Cynthia A. Spaulding from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Associate Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. David J. Stone from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor of Neurological Surgery to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty and Associate Professor of Neurological Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Curtis G. Tribble from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Terry T. Turner from Associate Professor of Urology and Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology to Professor of Urology (without term) and Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Donna V. Weaver from Assistant Professor of Nursing to Associate Professor of Nursing, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Arthur Weltman from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Michael E. Williams from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine (without term) and Associate Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Barbara B. Wilson from Assistant Professor of Dermatology to Associate Professor of Dermatology, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. John J. Yazel from Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty and Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Ms. Mildred K. Abraham, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period July 1, 1991 through August 31, 1991, without pay, because of conversion to nine month salary base.Mr. Shmuel Agmon, Professor of Mathematics, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, without pay, to do research.Mr. Robert F. Bruner, Associate Professor of Business Administration, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, without pay, to do research.Dr. Michael L. Coates, Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period April 1, 1991 through September 30, 1991, without pay, to accept call to active duty.Mr. Ronald D. Fischer, Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period January 16, 1992 through May 31, 1992, without pay, to do research.Ms. Susan D. Fraiman, Assistant Professor of English, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, without pay, to do research.Ms. Charlene E. Gill, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period March 1, 1991 through May 31, 1991, without pay, for medical reasons.Ms. Jeanne M. Hammer, Lecturer, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period August 16, 1991 through August 31, 1991, without pay, for a voluntary furlough.Ms. Mary A. Kraehe, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period July 1, 1991 through July 31, 1991, without pay, for a voluntary furlough.Mr. Waldo E. Martin, Jr., Professor of History, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, without pay, to teach at the University of California, Berkeley.Ms. Kathryn A. Neeley, Assistant Professor of Humanities, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, without pay, to accept a fellowship in the Commonwealth Center for Cultural and Literary Change.Mr. Tejumola Olaniyan, Acting Assistant Professor of English, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, without pay, to accept a fellowship at Northwestern University.Ms. Gail V. Oltmanns, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period August 1, 1991 through August 31, 1991, without pay, for a voluntary furlough.Ms. Edwina H. Pancake, Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period September 1, 1991 through September 30, 1991, without pay, for a voluntary furlough.Mr. G. Carleton Ray, Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period March 1, 1991 through March 31, 1991, with partial pay, because of insufficient research grant funds.Mr. Armstead L. Robinson, Associate Professor of History, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, with partial pay, to teach at Smith College and to do research.Mr. William F. Ruddiman, Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, without pay, to do research.Ms. Ann L. Southwell, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period July 1, 1991 through August 31, 1991, without pay, because of conversion to nine month salary base.Mr. Roger B. Stein, Professor of Art History, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, with partial pay, to do research.Ms. Martha W. Stuart, Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period April 16, 1991 through August 31, 1991, with partial pay, to do research.Mr. Timothy D. Wilson, Associate Professor of Psychology, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, with partial pay, to do research.Ms. Luciana G. Wlassics, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period June 3, 1991 through July 31, 1991, without pay, for personal reasons.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Dr. Carlos A. Bacchetta from Clinical Associate Professor of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery to Visiting Associate Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Allen D. Majewski from Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Lynchburg Program to Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Lynchburg Program, for one year, effective February 1, 1991.Mr. Kee Ok Park from Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Edward M. Spencer from Assistant Professor of Biomedical Ethics in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Biomedical Ethics in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for April 1, 1991 through September 30, 1991.Mr. Jeremy B. Tuttle from Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, General Medical Faculty to Research Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Margot L. White from Assistant Professor of Biomedical Ethics in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Biomedical Ethics in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for April 1, 1991 through June 30, 1991.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Bader-Eddine Bellahsene, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective February 28, 1991, for personal reasons.Mr. Louis J. Bredell, Visiting Professor of Materials Science, effective May 15, 1991, for personal reasons.Ms. Mary J. Bridle, Instructor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, effective March 8, 1991, to accept a classified position.Mr. Joseph A. Brown, Assistant Professor of English and Religious Studies, effective May 31, 1991, for personal reasons.Mr. Clifford E. Brubaker, Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.Ms. Eleanor C. Crocker, Assistant Professor of Employee Health, General Medical Faculty, effective March 31, 1991, for personal reasons.Mr. William H. Dubbs, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, effective April 30, 1991, to accept a position as administrator of Transplant Service Center.Ms. Helen C. Hamman, Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, effective May 3, 1991, for personal reasons.Mr. Douglas A. Hargrave, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective May 31, 1991, for personal reasons.Dr. John L. Hines, Instructor in Ophthalmology, General Medical Faculty, effective March 6, 1991, to accept another position.Ms. Kathryn L. Ingle, Assistant Professor of Communication Studies, effective May 31, 1991, for personal reasons.Mr. Peter C. Isakson, Associate Professor of Pharmacology, General Medical Faculty, effective April 30, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. Cynthia L. Janus, Associate Professor of Radiology, effective August 30, 1991, for personal reasons.Dr. Christopher J. Lander, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, effective April 15, 1991, to enter private practice.Dr. German Lizarralde, Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, effective April 19, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Stephen N. MacFarlane, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. Donald D. Mathes, Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, effective March 21, 1991, to enter a residency program.Mr. Vernon Maxa, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective April 30, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Joseph Meschino, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective April 1, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Don S. Rice, Professor of Anthropology, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Bryan L. Spangelo, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Joshua H. Tonkel, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. James O. Torner, Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty, effective April 30, 1991, to accept another position.Ms. Marsha S. Weidner, Associate Professor of Art History, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Eunice A. Woods, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective April 30, 1991, to pursue further educational studies.Mr. Chuntong Ying, Visiting Research Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, effective March 29, 1991, to accept another position.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Lester A. Beaurline, Professor of English, effective January 15, 1992. Mr. Beaurline has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1960.Dr. Charles H. Boggs, Assistant Professor of Surgery, Salem Program, effective February 28, 1991. Mr. Boggs has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1979.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Paul E. Allaire as Chairman, Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Colette Capone as Associate Vice President and Director of the Budget, for the period April 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Dr. Claudette E. Dalton as Assistant Dean for Medical Alumni Affairs, for one year, effective April 1, 1991.Ms. Lynn A. Davis as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. John Z. Imbrie as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Richard A. Kovatch as Assistant Vice President for Business Operations, for the period April 1, 1991 through December 31, 1992.Mr. Bernard D. Mayes as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Benjamin C. Sturgill as Associate Dean of Admissions, School of Medicine, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Richard J. Sundberg as Associate Dean, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Johannes H. Van Der Merwe as Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for the period February 11, 1991 through March 21, 1991.Ms. Renate L. Voris as Chairman, Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Roger A. Chevalier as Chairman, Department of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Thomas H. Courtney as Chairman, Department of Materials Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective June 1, 1991.Ms. Angela M. Davis as Assistant Dean of Students, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. William A. Elwood as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Clark C. Graninger as Associate Dean for Administrative Affairs, Salem Program, for two years, effective April 1, 1991.Mr. Robert J. Huskey as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Marita P. McClymonds as Chairman, Department of Music, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Richard D. Pearson as Associate Dean for Student Affairs, School of Medicine, for five years, effective April 1, 1991.Mr. William J. Randolph as Associate Dean for Finance, School of Medicine, for three years, effective April 1, 1991.Ms. Kathrine M. Reed as Associate Provost for Management, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. J. David Sapir as Chairman, Department of Anthropology, for two years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. John C. Stagg as Editor, Papers of James Madison, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Peter A. Stark, Jr. as Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Ronald J. Stump as Associate Dean of Students, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Vasti Torres as Assistant Dean of Students, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person(s) be and he/she/they is hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Lester A. Beaurline, Professor of English, effective January 15, 1992.Mr. Enno E. Kraehe, William W. Corcoran Professor of History, effective May 31, 1991.

DEATHS
------

CHANGE IN THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MS. CHARLENE E. GILL
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Ms. Charlene E. Gill, Assistant Professor, for the period September 1, 1990 through January 24, 1991, with pay, for medical reasons, as shown in the Minutes of the Meeting of February 1, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Ms. Charlene E. Gill, Assistant Professor, for the period September 1, 1990 through February 28, 1991, with pay, for medical reasons.

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF MS. SATWANT K. PASRICHA
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Satwant K. Pasricha as Visiting Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for the period February 1, 1991 through April 30, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the Meeting of March 22, 1991, be and it is hereby corrected to read as follows:Ms. Satwant K. Pasricha as Visiting Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for the period February 1, 1991 through April 30, 1991.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEELECTIONS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Ms. Amelia C. VanGundy as Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, Clinch Valley College, for the period January 16, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Mr. Bruce W. Wasem as Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective March 1, 1991.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SHERRELL J. ASTON PROFESSORSHIP IN ARTS AND SCIENCES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the College of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Sherrell J. Aston Professorship in Arts and Sciences, this Chair to become effective at such date as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to Sherrell J. Aston who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ALFRED BURGER PROFESSORSHIP IN BIOLOGICAL AND MEDICINAL CHEMISTRY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the Department of Chemistry in the College of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Alfred Burger Professorship in Biological and Medicinal Chemistry. The Board is grateful to Merck and Company, Incorporated, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE E. JAMES KELLY, JR., RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Law a Chair to be known as the E. James Kelly, Jr., Research Professorship in Law. The Board is grateful to the Law School Class of 1965 who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CAVALIERS' DISTINGUISHED TEACHING PROFESSORSHIP
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established at the University of Virginia a Chair to be known as the Cavaliers' Distinguished Teaching Professorship, to be assigned by the Provost to an eminent scholar within the University in recognition of outstanding teaching. The Board is grateful to the efforts of the 1990 University football team and the USF&G Sugar Bowl who made possible the funding of this Chair.

APPROVAL OF THE 1991-92 BUDGET FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1991-92 Budget for the Academic Division as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1991-92 BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1991-92 Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1991-92 BUDGET FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1991-92 Budget for Clinch Valley College as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1991-92 MEDICAL CENTER ROOM RATES
-------------------------------------------------

Rate 1990-91

% Increase

Amount of Increase

Rate 1991-92

Daily Room Charge:

Semi-Private

$ 340

5.9%

$20

$ 360

Intensive Care and Other Special Care Units

$ 712 to $1,561

6.0%

$43 to $94

$ 755 to $1,655

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the patient care rates for services in the University of Virginia Medical Center be and they are hereby increased by an average of 6.0%, effective at the close of business on June 30, 1991. Rate 1990-91% IncreaseAmount of IncreaseRate 1991-92Daily Room Charge:Semi-Private$ 3405.9%$20$ 360Intensive Care and Other Special Care Units$ 712 to $1,5616.0%$43 to $94$ 755 to $1,655

APPROVAL OF THE 1990-91 AND 1991-92 BUDGETS OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATE FOR SPECIFIC DEPARTMENTS IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND ARTS AND SCIENCES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the budgets for the expenditure of funds from the Estate of John Lee Pratt as a supplement of appropriations made by the State of Virginia for the School of Medicine and the Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics in Arts and Sciences in the amounts of $52,000 for 1990-91 and $2,320,000 for 1991-92, as suggested by the department chairs, as recommended by the Special Advisory Committee on Pratt Funds of the Center for Advanced Studies, and as approved by the President and the Finance Committee, be and they are hereby approved. To the extent that annual income from the endowment is not adequate, the principal of the endowment will be disinvested to provide funds for the approved budgets.

APPROVAL OF CLINICAL AND PATHOLOGY FACULTY SALARY CEILINGS FOR THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rank

Current Scale 1990-91

Proposed Scale 1991-92

State Maximum

Ceilings

State Maximum

Ceilings

Professor and Department Head

$84,900

$205,900

$84,900

$205,900

Professor and Division Head

$80,500

$195,300

$80,500

$195,300

Professor

$77,400

$187,700

$77,400

$187,700

Associate Professor and Division Head

$70,000

$169,700

$70,000

$169,700

Associate Professor

$67,300

$163,100

$67,300

$163,100

Assistant Professor

$59,500

$144,400

$59,500

$144,400

Instructor

$46,700

$113,200

$46,700

$113,200

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that subject to the approval of the Governor, the full-time Clinical and Pathology Faculty Salary Ceilings shall be as follows, effective July 1, 1991: RankCurrent Scale 1990-91Proposed Scale 1991-92State MaximumCeilingsState MaximumCeilingsProfessor and Department Head$84,900$205,900$84,900$205,900Professor and Division Head$80,500$195,300$80,500$195,300Professor$77,400$187,700$77,400$187,700Associate Professor and Division Head$70,000$169,700$70,000$169,700Associate Professor$67,300$163,100$67,300$163,100Assistant Professor$59,500$144,400$59,500$144,400Instructor$46,700$113,200$46,700$113,200

APPROVAL OF THE WRITE-OFF OF BAD DEBTS AND FREE SERVICE
-------------------------------------------------------

Bad Debt

$ 2,118,802.14

Indigent Care

11,870,689.08

\-------------

Total

$13,989,491.22

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Medical Center Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts included in the University of Virginia Medical Center Accounts Committee Reports for the meeting of March 29, 1991, which includes the write-offs for the months of January and February 1991 totaling $13,989,491.22, and consisting of the following: Bad Debt$ 2,118,802.14Indigent Care11,870,689.08-------------Total$13,989,491.22 RESOLVED FURTHER that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of debts represented by such accounts.

APPROVAL OF VISION STATEMENT FOR THE UNIVERSITY'S BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the proposed Vision Statement for the University's Buildings and Grounds be and it is hereby approved as recommended by the Buildings and Grounds Committee. (See Attachment A)

INTRODUCTION OF MR. ROBERT D. SWEENEY
-------------------------------------

The President introduced Mr. Robert Sweeney who will assume his duties as Vice President for Development on August 1. Mr. Sweeney is presently at the University of North Carolina.

Mr. Sweeney addressed the Board briefly.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR VIRGINIA POWER ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: (Mr. Waller Horsley abstained from voting.) RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated March 4, 1991 between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Virginia Power which grants an easement of right-of-way for approximately 9,500 square feet of ground area to construct, operate, and maintain an electric substation on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and located west of Alderman Road adjacent to the Facilities Management complex in the west precinct of the Grounds be and it is hereby approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be and they hereby are authorized to execute said deed of easement.

ELECTION OF MS. BETTE B. ANDERSON TO THE MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Ms. Bette B. Anderson be and she is hereby elected to the Miller Center Council to serve until the fall of 1993.

ELECTION OF THE HONORABLE GRIFFIN B. BELL TO THE MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that The Honorable Griffin B. Bell be and he is hereby elected to the Miller Center Council to serve until the fall of 1994.

AMENDMENT TO THE LEAVE POLICY FOR GENERAL FACULTY
-------------------------------------------------

12 month contractual cycle

22 working days

11 month contractual cycle

20 working days

10 month contractual cycle

18 working days

9 month contractual cycle

16 working days

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS it is in the interest of the University to consider appointments for administrative and professional faculty for periods of less than twelve months; andWHEREAS the current policy on annual leave does not address contract cycles other than twelve month or nine month,RESOLVED that the leave policy for members of the General Faculty be and it is hereby amended effective July 1, 1991:Annual Leave: Annual leave is available to all members of the general faculty who hold full-time positionson a twelve month basiswith appointments of a yeartwelve months or longer. These individuals are entitled to twenty two working days of annual leave. Annual leave is granted in accordance with the following schedule: 12 month contractual cycle22 working days11 month contractual cycle20 working days10 month contractual cycle18 working days9 month contractual cycle16 working days All unused leave lapses at the end of each fiscal year.Instructional faculty who hold appointments on a nine month basis are entitled to observe University holidays and to determine their own hours during semester breaks scheduled in the academic calendar. Instructional nine month faculty do not have specific University responsibilities or duties during the summer apart from those associated with the preparation of materials for the academic year.Part-time members of the general faculty appointed on a twelve month basis are entitled to annual leave in proportion to their working time.There is no compensation made for any unused leave at the time of separation from University employment or transfer to the classified system. Responsibility for record-keeping of annual leave for members of the general faculty lies with the departments.

APPROVAL OF THE OPTIONAL RETIREMENT PLAN
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Teachers Insurance Annuity Association and the College Retirement Equities Fund (TIAA/CREF) and the Virginia Retirement System (VRS) are the providers of retirement plans available to the University of Virginia faculty; andWHEREAS, the TIAA/CREF plan is a defined contribution plan and the VRS is a defined benefit plan; andWHEREAS, the Commonwealth of Virginia has identified five companies, in addition to TIAA/CREF, as potential defined contribution retirement plan carriers; andWHEREAS, it is recommended that all five additional carriers be added to the University of Virginia's retirement plan offerings;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that Fidelity Investments Institutional Services, Great-West Life Assurance Company, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company/Metlife Resources, T. Rowe Price and Associates, and Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC), be and they are hereby added to the University of Virginia retirement plan effective June 1, 1991.

REPORT ON ACTIONS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON APRIL 11, 1991
--------------------------------------------------------------

Vice President Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., reported on the actions of the Executive Committee on April 11, 1991, regarding the following:

(a) Approval of Increase in Tuition and Required Fees and Other Charges for the Academic Division

(b) Approval of Increase in Tuition and Required Fees and Other Charges for Clinch Valley College

(c) Approval of Allocation of Required Fees for 1991-1992

(d) Approval of Faculty Salary Scale for the Academic Division for 1991-1992

(e) Approval of Faculty Salary Scale for Clinch Valley College

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported on gifts, grants and contracts. He said that there continues to be an increase over the prior year in the total cash flow to the University from gifts, grants and contracts. The Report was accepted by the Board.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period March 1, 1991 through April 30, 1991, as presented by the Acting Director of Audits, be and it is hereby approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE PROPOSAL FOR A NEW DEGREE AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the degree title Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies be and it is hereby established at Clinch Valley College subject to approval by the State Council of Higher Education.

RE-ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ADVISORY COUNCIL
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following members of the Clinch Valley College Advisory Council be and they are hereby re-elected to a four year term beginning July 1, 1991and ending June 30, 1995:Mr. David William CohenMr. Thomas K. HenritzeMr. Michael J. Quillen

APPROVAL OF THE REPORT OF THE BAD DEBTS COMMITTEE FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1990-1991
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tuition and Fees

$92,898

Uncollectible Salary Payments to Former Employees

61,860

Parking and Transportation Fines and Charges

48,164

Library Fines and Charges

23,300

Other Charges

65,292

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the University Bad Debts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts the following accounts totalling $291,514 for the fiscal year 1990-91. Tuition and Fees$92,898Uncollectible Salary Payments to Former Employees61,860Parking and Transportation Fines and Charges48,164Library Fines and Charges23,300Other Charges65,292 RESOLVED FURTHER, that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of the debts represented by such accounts.

APPROVAL OF REVISED RETIREMENT CONTRIBUTION FORMULA
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, House Bill No. 1935 reduced the contribution rate to optional retirement programs at institutions of higher education from 12.57 percent to 10.4 percent of salary effective July 1, 1991; andWHEREAS, House Bill No. 1935 permits an institution of higher education to adopt a supplementation program for participants who, before January 1, 1991, have exercised the election to participate in the optional retirement program. Under such supplementation program, the institution may supplement such contribution up to an additional 2.17 percent of salary;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the optional retirement formula be 11.5 percent of salary up to $100,000 or 10.4 percent of total salary whichever is greater, effective July 1, 1991 (the beginning of the University's Plan Year) for those employees who are members of an optional retirement program prior to January 1, 1991. The formula for employees who elect to participate in an optional retirement program on or after January 1, 1991 will be 10.4 percent of total salary effective July 1, 1991.

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF HUGHES GROUP ARCHITECTS, INCORPORATED, FOR THE PERFORMANCES OF ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES FOR THE PREPLANNING STUDY FOR THE GILMER FIELD RECREATION CENTER PROJECT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Hughes Group Architects, Incorporated, of Sterling, Virginia, be approved for the performances of architectural services for the Preplanning Study for the Gilmer Field Recreation Center Project. At the option of the University administration, the firm may later be continued for development of full architecture design services upon approval of the project by State government.

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTION FOR AUTHORIZATION TO PARTICIPATE IN COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA 9-C BOND ISSUE (4 PROJECTS)RESOLUTION OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIARESOLUTION OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIARESOLUTION OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIARESOLUTION OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: (Mr. S. Buford Scott abstained from voting.)

WHEREAS, there has been passed by the General Assembly of Virginia an act entitled "Commonwealth of Virginia Higher Educational Institutions Bond Act of 1991" (the "Act") which has been signed by the Governor;

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Treasury Board") is authorized, by and with the consent of the Governor, to sell and issue bonds of the Commonwealth of Virginia for the purpose of providing funds, with other available funds, for paying the cost of acquiring, constructing, renovating, enlarging, improving and equipping certain revenue-producing capital projects at certain institutions of higher learning of the Commonwealth and for paying issuance costs, reserve funds and other financing expenses (the "Financing Expenses"), all in accordance with the provisions of Section 9(c) of Article X of the Constitution of Virginia;

WHEREAS, such revenue-producing capital projects include a parking facility (Capital Outlay Project Number 14638) (the "Project") for the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "Institution"), which will be a component of the Institution's parking system (the "System"); and

WHEREAS, the Treasury Board is proposing to sell and issue bonds pursuant to the Act for such revenue-producing capital projects, in one or more series;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE RECTORS AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:

Section 1. The Board of Visitors of the Institution (the "Board") requests the Treasury Board to sell and issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $11,972,862 to finance all or a portion of the cost of the Project plus Financing Expenses (the "Project Bonds"). The Project Bonds will be identified by amount and maturities by the State Treasurer upon issuance of any bonds.

Section 2. The Board (a) covenants to fix, revise, charge and collect rates, fees and charges, including without limitation parking fees, for or in connection with the use, occupation and services of the System and (b) pledges such rates, fees and charges remaining after payment of the expenses of operating the System ("Net Revenues") to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds. The Board further covenants that it will fix, revise, charge and collect such rates, fees and charges in such amounts so that Net Revenues will at all times be sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds and on any other obligations secured by Net Revenues (such payments collectively the "Required Payments"). The Project Bonds shall be secured on a parity with such other obligations so secured by Net Revenues (other than any obligations secured by a prior right in Net Revenues). Any Net Revenues pledged herein in excess of the Required Payments may be used by the Institution for any other lawful purpose.

Section 3. It is hereby found, determined and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates and advice of appropriate officials of the Institution, as shown on the Financial Feasibility Study attached hereto as Exhibit A, the anticipated Net Revenues pledged herein will be sufficient to pay the Required Payments so long as the aggregate amount of net debt service on the Project Bonds actually payable in any bond year does not exceed the amounts assumed in the Financial Feasibility Study.

Section 4. The Board covenants that the Institution will furnish the Treasury Board its general purpose financial statements, within 30 days of their issuance and receipt, audited by a firm of certified public accountants or the Auditor of Public Accounts which shall include a schedule of revenues and expenditures for auxiliary enterprise systems. At the same time, the Institution will furnish the Treasury Board a certificate of the chief financial officer of the Institution stating whether Net Revenues were sufficient to pay Required Payments during the period covered by such financial statements. If Net Revenues were insufficient to pay Required Payments during such period, such certificate shall include the Institution's plan to generate Net Revenues sufficient to make Required Payments in the future.

Section 5. The Board covenants that so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, the Institution will pay to the State Treasurer, not less than 30 days before each interest or principal payment date, the amount certified by the State Treasurer to be due and payable on such date as principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds.

Section 6. The Board covenants that the Institution will pay from time to time its proportionate share of all expenses incurred in connection with the sale and issuance of any series of bonds that includes Project Bonds (the "Bonds") and all expenses thereafter incurred in connection with the Bonds, including without limitation the expense of calculating any rebate to the United States of the earnings derived from the investment of gross proceeds of the Bonds, all as certified by the State Treasurer to the Institution.

Section 7. The Board covenants that the Institution will not take or omit to take any action the taking or omission of which will cause the Bonds to be "arbitrage bonds" within the meaning of Section 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including regulations issued pursuant thereto (the "Code"), or otherwise cause interest on the Bonds to be includable in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes under existing laws. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Institution will pay from time to time its proportional share of any rebate to the United States of the earnings derived from the investment of the gross proceeds of the Bonds.

Section 8. The Board covenants that the Institution will proceed with due diligence to undertake and complete the Project and that the Institution will spend all of the available proceeds derived from the sale of the Project Bonds for costs associated with the Project and appropriated for the Project by the General Assembly.

Section 9. The Board covenants that the Institution will not permit the proceeds of the Project Bonds to be used in any manner that would result in (a) 5% or more of such proceeds being used in a trade or business carried on by any person other than a governmental unit, as provided in Section 141(b) of the Code, (b) 5% or more of such proceeds being used with respect to any output facility within the meaning of Section 141(b) (4) of the Code, or (c) 5% or more of such proceeds being used directly or indirectly to make or finance loans to any persons other than a governmental unit, as provided in Section 141(c) of the Code. The Institution need not comply with such covenants if the Institution obtains the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that such covenants need not be complied with to prevent the interest on the Bonds from being includable in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.

Section 10. The Board covenants that for so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding the Institution will not enter into any operating lease, management contract or similar agreement with any person or entity, other than a state or local governmental unit, for all or any portion of the Project without first obtaining the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that entering into such agreement will not cause the interest on the Bonds to be included in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.

Section 11. The Board covenants that for so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, the Institution will not sell or dispose of all or any part of the Project without first obtaining the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that such sale or disposition will not cause interest on the Bonds to be included in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.

Section 12. The officers of the Institution are authorized and directed to execute and deliver all certificates and instruments and to take all such further action as may be considered necessary or desirable in connection with the sale and issuance of the Bonds.

Section 13. The Board acknowledges that the Treasury Board will rely on the representations and covenants set forth herein in issuing the Bonds, that such covenants are critical to the security for the Bonds and the exclusion of the interest on the Bonds from the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes, that the Board will not repeal, revoke, rescind or amend any of such covenants without first obtaining the written approval of the Treasury Board, and that such covenants will be binding upon the Board so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding.

Section 14. This resolution shall take effect immediately.

WHEREAS, there has been passed by the General Assembly of Virginia an act entitled "Commonwealth of Virginia Higher Educational Institutions Bond Act of 1991" (the "Act") which has been signed by the Governor;

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Treasury Board") is authorized, by and with the consent of the Governor, to sell and issue bonds of the Commonwealth of Virginia for the purpose of providing funds, with other available funds, for paying the cost of acquiring, constructing, renovating, enlarging, improving and equipping certain revenue-producing capital projects at certain institutions of higher learning of the Commonwealth and for paying issuance costs, reserve funds and other financing expenses (the "Financing Expenses"), all in accordance with the provisions of Section 9(c) of Article X of the Constitution of Virginia;

WHEREAS, such revenue-producing capital projects include a dining facility (Capital Outlay Project Number 15013) (the "Project") for the Rector and Visitors of University of Virginia (the "Institution"), which will be a component of the Institution's dining facilities system (the "System"); and

WHEREAS, the Treasury Board is proposing to sell and issue bonds pursuant to the Act for such revenue-producing capital projects, in one or more series;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:

Section 1. The Board of Visitors of the Institution (the "Board") requests the Treasury Board to sell and issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $4,872,030 to finance all or a portion of the cost of the Project plus Financing Expenses (the "Project Bonds"). The Project Bonds will be identified by amount and maturities by the State Treasurer upon issuance of any bonds.

Section 2. The Board (a) covenants to fix, revise, charge and collect rates, fees and charges, including without limitation student dining fees, for or in connection with the use, occupation and services of the System and (b) pledges such rates, fees and charges remaining after payment of the expenses of operating the System ("Net Revenues") to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds. The Board further covenants that it will fix, revise, charge and collect such rates, fees and charges in such amounts so that Net Revenues will at all times be sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds and on any other obligations secured by Net Revenues (such payments collectively the "Required Payments"). The Project Bonds shall be secured on a parity with such other obligations so secured by Net Revenues (other than any obligations secured by a prior right in Net Revenues). Any Net Revenues pledged herein in excess of the Required Payments may be used by the Institution for any other lawful purpose.

Section 3. It is hereby found, determined and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates and advice of appropriate officials of the Institution, as shown on the Financial Feasibility Study attached hereto as Exhibit A, the anticipated Net Revenues pledged herein will be sufficient to pay the Required Payments so long as the aggregate amount of net debt service on the Project Bonds actually payable in any bond year does not exceed the amounts assumed in the Financial Feasibility Study.

Section 4. The Board covenants that the Institution will furnish the Treasury Board its general purpose financial statements within 30 days of their issuance and receipt, audited by a firm of certified public accountants or the Auditor of Public Accounts which shall include a schedule of revenues and expenditures for auxiliary enterprise systems. At the same time, the Institution will furnish the Treasury Board a certificate of the chief financial officer of the Institution stating whether Net Revenues were sufficient to pay Required Payments during the period covered by such financial statements. If Net Revenues were insufficient to pay Required Payments during such period, such certificate shall include the Institution's plan to generate Net Revenues sufficient to make Required Payments in the future.

Section 5. The Board covenants that so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, the Institution will pay to the State Treasurer, not less than 30 days before each interest or principal payment date, the amount certified by the State Treasurer to be due and payable on such date as principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds.

Section 6. The Board covenants that the Institution will pay from time to time its proportionate share of all expenses incurred in connection with the sale and issuance of any series of bonds that includes Project Bonds (the "Bonds") and all expenses thereafter incurred in connection with the Bonds, all as certified by the State Treasurer to the Institution.

Section 7. The Board covenants that the Institution will proceed with due diligence to undertake and complete the Project and that the Institution will spend all of the available proceeds derived from the sale of the Project Bonds for costs associated with the Project and appropriated for the Project by the General Assembly.

Section 8. The Board covenants that for so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, the Institution will not sell or dispose of all or any part of the Project without first obtaining the written approval of the State Treasurer.

Section 9. The officers of the Institution are authorized and directed to execute and deliver all certificates and instruments and to take all such further action as may be considered necessary or desirable in connection with the sale and issuance of the Bonds.

Section 10. The Board acknowledges that the Treasury Board will rely on the representations and covenants set forth herein in issuing the Bonds, that such covenants are critical to the security for the Bonds, that the Board will not repeal, revoke, rescind or amend any of such covenants without first obtaining the written approval of the Treasury Board, and that such covenants will be binding upon the Board so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding.

Section 11. This resolution shall take effect immediately.

WHEREAS, there has been passed by the General Assembly of Virginia an act entitled "Commonwealth of Virginia Higher Educational Institutions Bond Act of 1991" (the "Act") which has been signed by the Governor;

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Treasury Board") is authorized, by and with the consent of the Governor, to sell and issue bonds of the Commonwealth of Virginia for the purpose of providing funds, with other available funds, for paying the cost of acquiring, constructing, renovating, enlarging, improving and equipping certain revenue-producing capital projects at certain institutions of higher learning of the Commonwealth and for paying issuance costs, reserve funds and other financing expenses (the "Financing Expenses"), all in accordance with the provisions of Section 9(c) of Article X of the Constitution of Virginia;

WHEREAS, such revenue-producing capital projects include a student residence facility (Capital Outlay Project Number 15089) (the "Project") for the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "Institution"), which will be a component of the Institution's dormitory system (the "System"); and

WHEREAS, the Treasury Board is proposing to sell and issue bonds pursuant to the Act for such revenue-producing capital projects, in one or more series;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE RECTORS AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:

Section 1. The Board of Visitors of the Institution (the "Board") requests the Treasury Board to sell and issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $14,360,886 to finance all or a portion of the cost of the Project plus Financing Expenses (the "Project Bonds"). The Project Bonds will be identified by amount and maturities by the State Treasurer upon issuance of any bonds.

Section 2. The Board (a) covenants to fix, revise, charge and collect rates, fees and charges, including without limitation room rents, for or in connection with the use, occupation and services of the System and (b) pledges such rates, fees and charges remaining after payment of the expenses of operating the System ("Net Revenues") to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds. The Board further covenants that it will fix, revise, charge and collect such rates, fees and charges in such amounts so that Net Revenues will at all times be sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds and on any other obligations secured by Net Revenues (such payments collectively the "Required Payments"). The Project Bonds shall be secured on a parity with such other obligations so secured by Net Revenues (other than any obligations secured by a prior right in Net Revenues). Any Net Revenues pledged herein in excess of the Required Payments may be used by the Institution for any other lawful purpose.

Section 3. It is hereby found, determined and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates and advice of appropriate officials of the Institution, as shown on the Financial Feasibility Study attached hereto as Exhibit A, the anticipated Net Revenues pledged herein will be sufficient to pay the Required Payments so long as the aggregate amount of net debt service on the Project Bonds actually payable in any bond year does not exceed the amounts assumed in the Financial Feasibility Study.

Section 4. The Board covenants that the Institution will furnish the Treasury Board its general purpose financial statements, within 30 days of their issuance and receipt, audited by a firm of certified public accountants or the Auditor of Public Accounts which shall include a schedule of revenues and expenditures for auxiliary enterprise systems. At the same time, the Institution will furnish the Treasury Board a certificate of the chief financial officer of the Institution stating whether Net Revenues were sufficient to pay Required Payments during the period covered by such financial statements. If Net Revenues were insufficient to pay Required Payments during such period, such certificate shall include the Institution's plan to generate Net Revenues sufficient to make Required Payments in the future.

Section 5. The Board covenants that so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, the Institution will pay to the State Treasurer, not less than 30 days before each interest or principal payment date, the amount certified by the State Treasurer to be due and payable on such date as principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds.

Section 6. The Board covenants that the Institution will pay from time to time its proportionate share of all expenses incurred in connection with the sale and issuance of any series of bonds that includes Project Bonds (the "Bonds") and all expenses thereafter incurred in connection with the Bonds, including without limitation the expense of calculating any rebate to the United States of the earnings derived from the investment of gross proceeds of the Bonds, all as certified by the State Treasurer to the Institution.

Section 7. The Board covenants that the Institution will not take or omit to take any action the taking or omission of which will cause the Bonds to be "arbitrage bonds" within the meaning of Section 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including regulations issued pursuant thereto (the "Code"), or otherwise cause interest on the Bonds to be includable in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes under existing laws. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Institution will pay from time to time its proportional share of any rebate to the United States of the earnings derived from the investment of the gross proceeds of the Bonds.

Section 8. The Board covenants that the Institution will proceed with due diligence to undertake and complete the Project and that the Institution will spend all of the available proceeds derived from the sale of the Project Bonds for costs associated with the Project and appropriated for the Project by the General Assembly.

Section 9. The Board covenants that the Institution will not permit the proceeds of the Project Bonds to be used in any manner that would result in (a) 5% or more of such proceeds being used in a trade or business carried on by any person other than a governmental unit, as provided in Section 141(b) of the Code, (b) 5% or more of such proceeds being used with respect to any output facility within the meaning of Section 141(b)(4) of the Code, or (c) 5% or more of such proceeds being used directly or indirectly to make or finance loans to any persons other than a governmental unit, as provided in Section 141(c) of the Code. The Institution need not comply with such covenants if the Institution obtains the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that such covenants need not be complied with to prevent the interest on the Bonds from being includable in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.

Section 10. The Board covenants that for so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding the Institution will not enter into any operating lease, management contract or similar agreement with any person or entity, other than a state or local governmental unit, for all or any portion of the Project without first obtaining the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that entering into such agreement will not cause the interest on the Bonds to be included in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.

Section 11. The Board covenants that for so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, the Institution will not sell or dispose of all or any part of the Project without first obtaining the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that such sale or disposition will not cause interest on the Bonds to be included in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.

Section 12. The officers of the Institution are authorized and directed to execute and deliver all certificates and instruments and to take all such further action as may be considered necessary or desirable in connection with the sale and issuance of the Bonds.

Section 13. The Board acknowledges that the Treasury Board will rely on the representations and covenants set forth herein in issuing the Bonds, that such covenants are critical to the security for the Bonds and the exclusion of the interest on the Bonds from the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes, that the Board will not repeal, revoke, rescind or amend any of such covenants without first obtaining the written approval of the Treasury Board, and that such covenants will be binding upon the Board so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding.

Section 14. This resolution shall take effect immediately.

WHEREAS, there has been passed by the General Assembly of Virginia an act entitled "Commonwealth of Virginia Higher Educational Institutions Bond Act of 1991" (the "Act") which has been signed by the Governor;

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Treasury Board") is authorized, by and with the consent of the Governor, to sell and issue bonds of the Commonwealth of Virginia for the purpose of providing funds, with other available funds, for paying the cost of acquiring, constructing, renovating, enlarging, improving and equipping certain revenue-producing capital projects at certain institutions of higher learning of the Commonwealth and for paying issuance costs, reserve funds and other financing expenses (the "Financing Expenses"), all in accordance with the provisions of Section 9(c) of Article X of the Constitution of Virginia;

WHEREAS, such revenue-producing capital projects include student residence facility (Capital Outlay Project Number 15161) (the "Project") for Clinch Valley College, a division of the University of Virginia (the "Institution"), which will be a component of the Institution's dormitory system (the "System"); and

WHEREAS, the Treasury Board is proposing to sell and issue bonds pursuant to the Act for such revenue-producing capital projects, in one or more series;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:

Section 1. The Board of Visitors of the Institution (the "Board") requests the Treasury Board to sell and issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $719,000 to finance all or a portion of the cost of the Project plus Financing Expenses (the "Project Bonds"). The Project Bonds will be identified by amount and maturities by the State Treasurer upon issuance of any bonds.

Section 2. The Board (a) covenants to fix, revise, charge and collect rates, fees and charges, including without limitation room rents, for or in connection with the use, occupation and services of the System and (b) pledges such rates, fees and charges remaining after payment of the expenses of operating the System ("Net Revenues") to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds. The Board further covenants that it will fix, revise, charge and collect such rates, fees and charges in such amounts so that Net Revenues will at all times be sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds and on any other obligations secured by Net Revenues (such payments collectively the "Required Payments"). The Project Bonds shall be secured on a parity with such other obligations so secured by Net Revenues (other than any obligations secured by a prior right in Net Revenues). Any Net Revenues pledged herein in excess of the Required Payments may be used by the Institution for any other lawful purpose.

Section 3. It is hereby found, determined and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates and advice of appropriate officials of the Institution, as shown on the Financial Feasibility Study attached hereto as Exhibit A, the anticipated Net Revenues pledged herein will be sufficient to pay the Required Payments so long as the aggregate amount of net debt service on the Project Bonds actually payable in any bond year does not exceed the amounts assumed in the Financial Feasibility Study.

Section 4. The Board covenants that the Institution will furnish the Treasury Board its general purpose financial statements, within 30 days of their issuance and receipt, audited by a firm of certified public accountants or the Auditor of Public Accounts which shall include a schedule of revenues and expenditures for auxiliary enterprise systems. At the same time, the Institution will furnish the Treasury Board a certificate of the chief financial officer of the Institution stating whether Net Revenues were sufficient to pay Required Payments during the period covered by such financial statements. If Net Revenues were insufficient to pay Required Payments during such period, such certificate shall include the Institution's plan to generate Net Revenues sufficient to make Required Payments in the future.

Section 5. The Board covenants that so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, the Institution will pay to the State Treasurer, not less than 30 days before each interest or principal payment date, the amount certified by the State Treasurer to be due and payable on such date as principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds.

Section 6. The Board covenants that the Institution will pay from time to time its proportionate share of all expenses incurred in connection with the sale and issuance of any series of bonds that includes Project Bonds (the "Bonds") and all expenses thereafter incurred in connection with the Bonds, including without limitation the expense of calculating any rebate to the United States of the earnings derived from the investment of gross proceeds of the Bonds, all as certified by the State Treasurer to the Institution.

Section 7. The Board covenants that the Institution will not take or omit to take any action the taking or omission of which will cause the Bonds to be "arbitrage bonds" within the meaning of Section 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including regulations issued pursuant thereto (the "Code"), or otherwise cause interest on the Bonds to be includable in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes under existing laws. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Institution will pay from time to time its proportional share of any rebate to the United States of the earnings derived from the investment of the gross proceeds of the Bonds.

Section 8. The Board covenants that the Institution will proceed with due diligence to undertake and complete the Project and that the Institution will spend all of the available proceeds derived from the sale of the Project Bonds for costs associated with the Project and appropriated for the Project by the General Assembly.

Section 9. The Board covenants that the Institution will not permit the proceeds of the Project Bonds to be used in any manner that would result in (a) 5% or more of such proceeds being used in a trade or business carried on by any person other than a governmental unit, as provided in Section 141(b) of the Code, (b) 5% or more of such proceeds being used with respect to any output facility within the meaning of Section 141(b)(4) of the Code, or (c) 5% or more of such proceeds being used directly or indirectly to make or finance loans to any persons other than a governmental unit, as provided in Section 141(c) of the Code. The Institution need not comply with such covenants if the Institution obtains the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that such covenants need not be complied with to prevent the interest on the Bonds from being includable in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.

Section 10. The Board covenants that for so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding the Institution will not enter into any operating lease, management contract or similar agreement with any person or entity, other than a state or local governmental unit, for all or any portion of the Project without first obtaining the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that entering into such agreement will not cause the interest on the Bonds to be included in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.

Section 11. The Board covenants that for so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, the Institution will not sell or dispose of all or any part of the Project without first obtaining the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that such sale or disposition will not cause interest on the Bonds to be included in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.

Section 12. The officers of the Institution are authorized and directed to execute and deliver all certificates and instruments and to take all such further action as may be considered necessary or desirable in connection with the sale and issuance of the Bonds.

Section 13. The Board acknowledges that the Treasury Board will rely on the representations and covenants set forth herein in issuing the Bonds, that such covenants are critical to the security for the Bonds and the exclusion of the interest on the Bonds from the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes, that the Board will not repeal, revoke, rescind or amend any of such covenants without first obtaining the written approval of the Treasury Board, and that such covenants will be binding upon the Board so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding.

Section 14. This resolution shall take effect immediately.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 4:20 p.m.

AGG:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date:

CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 1

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 0

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Edward E. Elson

yes

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

absent

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

yes

Jesse B. Wilson, III

yes

Thomas E. Worrell, Jr.

yes

Adam S. Arthur

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Friday, May 24, 1991, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE (yes or no)COMMENTSW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.yesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesN. Thomas ConnallyyesHovey S. DabneyyesEdward E. ElsonyesWaller H. HorsleyyesJ. Thomas HulveyyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. KlugeabsentArnold H. LeonyesLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.yesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr.yesS. Buford ScottyesJesse B. Wilson, IIIyesThomas E. Worrell, Jr.yesAdam S. Arthuryes

ATTACHMENT A = Vision StatementRecommendationsDiscussion
--------------------------------------------------------

A VISION STATEMENT FOR THE PLANNING AND DESIGN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS

Submitted to Ms. Elizabeth D. Morie, Chair Buildings and Grounds Committee Board of Visitors University of Virginia Mr. Edward E. Elson, Rector

The following is a draft proposal of a Vision Statement for the Planning and Design of the University of Virginia Buildings and Grounds. This proposal is based on recent discussions to seek ways to improve the architectural character of the University, its buildings and grounds, and reflects the views of faculty representatives who served on the Subcommittee on the Environment of the Provost's Ten Year Academic Plan Committee as well as members of the faculty of the School of Architecture and members of the Architectural Advisory Committee.

The following statement expresses the basic intention of the Vision Statement:

"There is one distinct goal: to restore the Founder's vision of the reciprocity between the academic and the physical plan of the University. Mr. Jefferson's vision for the University was based on the premise that the principles guiding the physical design and character of the institution are the same as those affecting its academic undertakings.

What can be said of the physical elements can also be said of the academic components - the whole is greater than the sum of the parts. And the composition is reworked as new circumstances and opportunities arise, but always according to criteria of rationality and clarity of purpose. When the parts fit together and create a recognizable whole, they form a university setting that is designed to enhance the academic experience.

1\. An administrative apparatus should be established that would assure that all decisions taken about the physical setting and facilities of the University be understood to stand in a reciprocal relationship to all decisions taken about its academic plan. The appointment of a University architect is one means of implementing this recommendation.

2\. The dispersion of the University should be reversed and its concentration around the central Grounds be restored.

3\. A set of planning principles and design parameters that will ensure a coherent, effective, and unified University environment should be adopted."

(Quoted from "The Environment" portion of the Subcommittee Reports: Highlights of the Ten Year Academic Plan issued March 7, 1991 to the Board of Visitors from the Office of the Provost).

Mr. Jefferson based his vision on the premise that the principles guiding the physical design and character of the University are the same as those affecting its academic undertakings. These principles produced a physical and academic program that were in a reciprocal relationship to one another. It is valued now as it was then as a remarkable arrangement of buildings and grounds supporting clear academic intentions. The rotunda, the pavilions, the hotels, the ranges, the alleys, gardens, lawn, and terraces fit together to function efficiently and provide an inspiring setting. Each of these elements has a role to play in the overall scheme of things. It is not a collection of individual buildings. It is a composition, an ensemble, of buildings and the spaces between, all of them completely interdependent.

As it is with the physical setting so too is it with the academic scheme: Schools, degree programs, academic departments, research programs, courses, and tutorials; the class rooms, student residences, libraries, research laboratories, studios, and athletic fields; the faculty appointments, administrative officers, and staff--all these are brought into a thoughtfully composed unity to serve the purposes, both largest and most various, of the university.

What can be said of the physical elements can also be said of the academic components: The whole is greater than the sum of the parts. Both the academic ensemble and the ensemble of facilities are composed of discrete units capable of being justified by citing the contribution each one makes to the purpose of the whole. And the composition is contrived, revised, and reworked as new circumstances and opportunities arise, but always according to criteria of rationality and clarity of purpose.

All the parts fit together and create a recognizable whole, and they form a university setting which is clearly designed to enhance the academic experience, to stimulate study and thought and research and collegiality, to foster the exchange of ideas and the discovery, protection, and dissemination of new knowledge.

ONE GOAL and three objectives

The GOAL of the University as it continues to administer and alter the University's physical environment should be this:

To restore the Founder's vision of the reciprocity between the academic and the physical plan of the University.

From this flows the following OBJECTIVES

OBJECTIVE 1. To establish the administrative apparatus required to assure that all decisions taken about the physical setting and facilities of the University be understood to stand in a reciprocal relationship to all decisions taken about its academic plan.

There are several MEANS for reaching this objective.

A. One of these, probably the most important one, is to establish a single, central point or office at which all decisions concerning the physical alteration to the land, the grounds, and the existing buildings and all new construction are made. That function might best be responsible directly to the President's Office where the President has the advice of The Architect for the University of Virginia. This is a new office staffed by a person who is one of the most prominent and skillful people in the nation acting through the President or his designee as a consultant to the University, (not unlike Legal Counsel). All physical changes would be monitored through this point.

B. Another is to include in the ongoing master plan efforts for the University detailed scenarios for the various "precincts" and parts of the Grounds; (these would be similar to the Carr's Hill Precinct Study prepared in 1989-90). This planning procedure would provide a vehicle for clarifying the academic purpose of the University and its parts by seeing the physical effect of certain academic (and other) decisions, and the academic ramifications of decisions concerning the physical environment.

C. As a further way to facilitate the process of resolving the relationship between the physical and the academic, University staff would be responsible for preparing a detailed, constantly amended scale model and base drawings of the master plan and precinct studies in an easily accessible location (such as a ward room for planning and design activity).

OBJECTIVE 2. To reverse the dispersion of the University across a larger countryside and restore its concentration around the central grounds.

There are several MEANS for reaching this objective.

A. Work it out so that over time, academic programs and professional schools are integral elements of the Central Grounds--the recognized setting of the University.

B. Use student residences as a way of filling in areas within the University Grounds. (This would not be the only way new student residences would be added to the Grounds.)

C. Recognize that the central Grounds can accommodate a significant increase in the amount of buildings as long as careful attention is paid to the shape and character of the spaces between buildings. An interdependency of buildings and open space similar to that which exists in the academical village is essential throughout the University.

D. Think of parts of the University's landholdings that are not presently built upon not as open land but as natural sanctuaries, some of them needing the care of foresters, some the care of arborists, and so on, and all of the land as an asset serving a useful and important purpose rather than as a reserve for future construction.

OBJECTIVE 3. Adopt a set of planning principles and design parameters which will ensure a coherent, effective and unified University environment.

Any project must be formulated with these principles as its basis and be subject to review according to them. Examples of the kinds of principles which might be adopted are:

1\. a clear separation of the parts into discrete units;

2\. a clear representation of the functional role each part plays;

3\. a hierarchical distinction between the parts revealing which are more important and which are less important in fulfilling the purpose of the whole;

4\. an appearance for each part that allows it to be distinct while also allowing it to appear as a part of the larger whole to which it belongs;

5\. a clear geometric scheme controlling the disposition of the parts and their relationships to one another and to the whole;

6\. a clear gradation of spaces and uses ranging from public to private;

7\. a clear demarcation between what belongs to it and what does not;

8\. and, finally, residences dominate and establish the primary character of the place.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

To satisfy these objectives would be to restore one of the most important legacies of the University of Virginia, namely, its ability to illustrate the unity between the University's purpose, the curricular structure governing the academic lives of its members, and the physical setting. These had all been laid down by the Founder and can be extended and adapted to new circumstances as the University and the world in which it exists change.

Revised 1/30/91

Revised for Buildings and Grounds Committee, Board of Visitors, 4/2/91

Corrected 5/16/91

Submitted by Harry Porter, Chair, Environment Subcommittee and Chair, Architectural Advisory Committee.

ATTACHMENT A = Vision Statement (Revised) Rev. April 19, 1991
-------------------------------------------------------------

A VISION STATEMENT FOR THE PLANNING AND DESIGN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS

The following is a draft proposal of a Vision Statement for the Planning and Design of the University of Virginia Buildings and Grounds for inclusion in the Facilities Design and Construction Guidelines Manual, Department of Physical Plant.

The architectural legacy of the University of Virginia embodied in the Historic Academical Village should be reflected in the architecture of the University as a whole. In the planning and design of new facilities, there is one distinct goal: to restore the Founder's vision of the reciprocity between the academic plan and the physical plan of the University. Mr. Jefferson's vision for the University was based on the premise that the principles guiding the physical design and character of the institution are the same as those affecting its academic undertakings.

What can be said of the physical elements can also be said of the academic components ... the whole is greater than the sum of the parts. And the composition is reworked as new circumstances and opportunities arise, but always according to criteria of rationality and clarity of purpose. When the parts fit together and create a recognizable whole, they form a university setting that is designed to enhance the academic experience.

Mr. Jefferson's university is valued now as it was then as a remarkable arrangement of buildings and grounds supporting clear academic intentions. The rotunda, the pavilions, the hotels, the ranges, the alleys, gardens, lawn, and terraces fit together to function efficiently and provide an inspiring setting. Each of these elements has a role to play in the overall scheme of things. It is not a collection of individual buildings. It is a composition, an ensemble, of buildings and the spaces between, all of them completely interdependent and designed to stimulate study and thought and research and collegiality, to foster the exchange of ideas and the discovery, protection, and dissemination of new knowledge.

The University of Virginia buildings and grounds should achieve the following objectives:

1\. a clear separation of the parts into discrete units;

2\. a clear representation of the functional role each part plays;

3\. a hierarchical distinction between the parts revealing which are more important and which are less important in fulfilling the purpose of the whole;

4\. an appearance for each part that allows it to be distinct while also allowing it to appear as a part of the larger whole to which it belongs;

5\. a clear geometric scheme controlling the disposition of the parts and their relationships to one another and to the whole;

6\. a clear gradation of spaces and uses ranging from public to private.

7\. residences dominate and establish the primary character of the place.

To satisfy these objectives would be to restore one of the most important legacies of the University of Virginia, namely, its ability to illustrate the unity between the University's purpose, the curricular structure governing the academic lives of its members, and the physical setting. These had all been laid down by the Founder and can be extended and adapted to new circumstances as the University and the world in which it exists change.

Note: This statement is derived from the Report of the Subcommittee on the Environment prepared for inclusion in the Ten Year Academic Plan, March 1991.