 TEI to HTML

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA October 9, 1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:30 a.m., in Open Session, on Thursday, October 8, 1992, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, J. Scott Ballenger, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, N. Thomas Connally, Daniel A. Hoffler, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., and S. Buford Scott. Messrs. John T. Casteen, III, James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Thomas H. Jackson, Don E. Detmer, Ernest H. Ern, Robert D. Sweeney, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., and Mrs. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:30 p.m., in Open Session, on Saturday, October 9, 1992, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Hovey S. Dabney, J. Scott Ballenger, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, N. Thomas Connally, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., and S. Buford Scott. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Thomas H. Jackson, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., and Mrs. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of May 23, 1992, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

INTRODUCTION OF MR. DANIEL A. HOFFLER
-------------------------------------

Rector Hovey S. Dabney introduced and welcomed Mr. Daniel A. Hoffler from Chesapeake, Virginia, who was appointed by Governor Wilder on October 1, 1992, to fill the unexpired term of Mr. Waller H. Horsley.

RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION TO MR. WALLER H. HORSLEY
---------------------------------------------------

Rector Hovey Dabney expressed appreciation to Mr. Waller Horsley for his dedicated service on the Board of Visitors from March 1988 to September 1992.

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Waller H. Horsley served with great distinction as a member of the Board of Visitors from his appointment in 1988; andWHEREAS, Mr. Horsley gave exemplary service to the University of Virginia and to higher education in the Commonwealth as Chairman of the Educational Policy Committee; andWHEREAS, Mr. Horsley's years of service to the University began when he was an undergraduate and was clearly recognized by his peers as a leader;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors recognizes and thanks Mr. Horsley for his devoted service to the University and expresses the hope that he will continue to give the University and the Board the benefit of his wisdom and counsel.

APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS ON CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced the appointment of the Special Committee of the Board of Visitors on Clinch Valley College, with the following persons serving as members: J. Thomas Hulvey, Chair, Warner N. Dalhouse and Evans B. Jessee. The Committee is charged with maintaining liaison between the Board and the Interim Chancellor of Clinch Valley College during his incumbency. The Special Committee will work to assist the Interim Chancellor in carrying out his duties and to further the advancement of Clinch Valley College.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEFINANCE COMMITTEEBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEEEXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the Standing Committees to serve until the Annual Meeting in May 1993. The Committee assignments are as follows: HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEJ. Thomas Hulvey, ChairN. Thomas ConnallyEvans B. JesseeLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.Elizabeth D. MorieAlbert H. Small FINANCE COMMITTEERobert G. Butcher, Jr., ChairW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.Mortimer M. CaplinWarner N. DalhouseArnold H. LeonS. Buford Scott BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEElizabeth D. Morie, ChairJ. Scott BallengerEvans B. JesseeS. Buford ScottAlbert H. Small STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., ChairJ. Scott Ballenger Robert G. Butcher, Jr.Mortimer M. CaplinDaniel A. HofflerPatricia M. KlugeFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr. EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr.,J. Scott BallengerN. Thomas ConnallyDaniel A. HofflerJ. Thomas HulveyPatricia M. KlugeLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr. AUDIT COMMITTEES. Buford Scott, ChairMortimer M. CaplinWarner N. DalhouseArnold H. Leon EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEEArnold H. Leon, ChairW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.N. Thomas ConnallyWarner N. DalhousePatricia M. KlugeS. Buford ScottAlbert H. Small

The Rector, Mr. Hovey S. Dabney, is an ex officio member of all Committees.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending and potential litigation, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, including discussion of the legal authority of the Board of Visitors relative to its oversight of University-related foundations, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of The Code of Virginia.(b) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and considering reports and recommendations of the University Auditor related to the recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, including the Primary Care Center Pharmacy, Bone Marrow Transplant Program, Health Sciences Center Publications Department, Division of Nursing, Clinch Valley College Property Disposal, Newcomb Hall Director's Office, Voice Communications, ITC/ACS Fixed Asset System, ITC/ACS Information Center, and the Center for Public Service, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of The Code of Virginia.(c) That the External Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing specific fund-raising activities in preparation for the Capital Campaign as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (8) of The Code of Virginia.(d) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of The Code of Virginia.(e) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing the details and merits of a proposed investment of University Endowment Funds in a real estate transaction of the University Real Estate Foundation in connection with the Foundation's proposal to the Federal Office of Personnel Management to construct, lease and operate a training facility on the Foundation's Research Park, as provided for in Sections 2.1-344 A.(3) and A.(6) of The Code of Virginia.

STATEMENT BY MR. DANIEL A. HOFFLER
----------------------------------

Mr. Rector, I would like to disclose as a matter of public record my personal interest in the transaction referenced in the motion that has just been made. Armada-Hoffler is engaged with the University Real Estate Foundation to construct the training facility, in the event the Foundation is awarded the contract by the Federal Office of Personnel Managment. As Chairman of Armada-Hoffler, I have a personal financial interest in the company.

Although Armada-Hoffler's connection with the University Real Estate Foundation occurred before I was appointed to this Board, and the company's contract will be with the Foundation and not with the University, I want to disclose this on the public record.

I also want to make clear that I will not participate in any way or at any time in this Board's discussion or consideration of the Foundation's proposal. I am recusing myself in order to avoid any potential or appearance of a conflict of interest.

Mr. Secretary, please include this statement in the Minutes of the Board's meeting.

INTRODUCTION OF MS. POLLEY MCCLURE AS ASSOCIATE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF THE UNIVERSITY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

President John T. Casteen introduced Ms. Polley McClure who became the Associate Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the University on October 1, 1992.

Following Committee meetings and a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session of the full Board resumed at 1:30 p.m., on Friday, October 9, 1992.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Ms. Beverly C. Adams as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Matthew Ando as Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Warren S. Arbogast as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Barbara E. Armacost as Research Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Katherine Bankole as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Randal S. Blank as Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Edward V. Bonyak as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Robert C. Brickhouse as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Beth L. Brockell as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period August 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993.Ms. Anne E. Bromley as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Arthur J. Bulger as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Robert S. Call as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Kimberly A. Carpenter as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period August 1, 1992 through June 30, 1995.Dr. Michela Caruso as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. John A. Carver as Instructor in Ophthalmology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Vincent C. Cibbarelli as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Cathleen Clancy as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Dana R. Clyman as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Alon Confino as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Pamela A. Cook as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period July 15, 1992 through June 30, 1995.Mr. Douglas D. Davis as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1993.Ms. Janet B. Davis as Instructor in Rhetoric, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Dennis L. DeSilvey as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Paul T. Diamond as Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Rolland C. Dickson as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective December 1, 1992.Mr. Joshua F. Dienstag as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Diane Dodd-McCue as Visiting Assistant Professor of Management, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Nicholas R. Duke as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period July 7, 1992 through April 6, 1993.Ms. Billie G. Dunton as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period August 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993.Ms. Cathy L. Eberly as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period June 1, 1992 through June 30, 1995.Dr. Eleanore M. Ebert as Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Kathleen O. Edmunds as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective August 1, 1992.Mr. Daniel J. Ehnbom as Assistant Professor of Art History, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Richard I. Enelow as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Carolyn L. Engelhard as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Roger S. Fager as Senior Research Fellow, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Blaise R. Fallon as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1992.Ms. Margaret V.W. Foster as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. David F. Germano as Lecturer in Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Abby L. Gillette as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. William F. Glass, II as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective August 1, 1992.Ms. Donna J. Glassbrenner as Whyburn Instructor in Mathematics, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. John C. Goble as Research Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective May 15, 1992.Ms. Suellen D. Good as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period June 1, 1992 through June 30, 1993.Dr. Matthew J. Goodman as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Rolf Groesbeck as Lecturer in Music, for one semester, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. William E. Gross as Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, for one year, effective August 1, 1992.Mr. James G. Hart as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. David M. Herman as Acting Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Ellie M. Hisama as Lecturer in Music, for one semester, effective January 16, 1993.Dr. Suzanne Holroyd as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective August 1, 1992.Dr. Ai-Xuan L. Holterman as Research Instructor in Surgery, for the period May 16, 1992 through May 15, 1993.Dr. Harry W. Horner as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective May 1, 1992.Ms. Marie-Helene Huet as Professor of French, effective January 16, 1993.Mr. James P. Ignizio as Professor of Systems Engineering, effective August 1, 1992.Mr. A. Andrew John as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Judith E. Kahn as Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one semester, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Billie S. Kaser as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective May 18, 1992.Ms. Arlene W. Keeling as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Adrienne E. Keller as Research Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Kristie Y. Kim as Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Jay W. Klingel as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Karl G. Koenig as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective September 16, 1992.Ms. Pamela A. Kulbok as Associate Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Elisabeth Ladenson as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Mary Anne Lally-Graves as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period June 10, 1992 through December 9, 1992.Dr. Edward R. Laws, Jr. as Professor of Neurosurgery, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. John P. Leschke as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Jorg Liebeherr as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Kant Y.K. Lin as Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Robert E. Livingston as Lecturer in English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Rhonda E. Lloyd as Research Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Robin S. Lorsch as Lecturer in Classics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Stuart M. Lowson as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Dr. Elizabeth B. Mandell as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Carol A. Manning as Research Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Kirk Martini as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. M. Elizabeth Mason as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Ann C. Massey as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Mark A. Mastromarino as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective August 1, 1992.Ms. Polley A. McClure as Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective October 1, 1992.Ms. Elizabeth K. Meyer as Associate Professor of Landscape Architecture, effective January 1, 1993.Ms. Robin A. Miller as Instructor, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective July 15, 1992.Ms. Barbara B. Mooney as Assistant Professor of Architectural History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Marcia M. Moore as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Peter L. Munger as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective May 1, 1992.Mr. Antonio Munoz Molina as Visiting Professor of Spanish, for one semester, effective January 16, 1993.Mr. Kevin D. Murphy as Assistant Professor of Architectural History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Douglas S. Newburg as Lecturer in Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective April 16, 1992.Dr. John R. Nordlund as Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Victoria F. Norwood as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Neal R. Nygard as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Laura A. Oaksmith as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period May 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992.Dr. Robert A. Older as Associate Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective August 1, 1992.Mr. Barry L. Parkhill as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 17, 1992.Ms. Roseann N. Parks as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. William C. Peatman as Research Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective May 15, 1992.Ms. Jane C. Prey as Lecturer in Computer Science, for one year, effective July 6, 1992.Mr. William J. Price-Wilkin as Lecturer, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Jeffrey P. Raffensperger as Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period January 16, 1993 through January 15, 1994.Dr. Colin E. Ramirez as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective June 16, 1992.Ms. Margaret H. Reitz as Lecturer, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for one year, effective August 1, 1992.Mr. Paul Rilstone as Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, for the period January 16, 1993 through May 31, 1994.Mr. Gabriel Robins as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Kathryn M. Rohe as Assistant Professor of Drama, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. James J. Schuster as Instructor in Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. A. Frederick Seaman as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. William C. Sessa, Jr. as Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for the period June 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992.Mr. David W. Sheatsley as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period July 23, 1992 through June 30, 1993.Ms. Setsuko Shiga as Instructor in Japanese, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. James A. Smith as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Kenneth G. Smith as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Dominic Starsia as Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Gregory V. Strickland as Lecturer, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective April 1, 1992.Dr. Scott A. Syverud as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Gang Tao as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. James S. Tiedeman as Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Carl B. Tubbs as Instructor in Ophthalmology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Jean T. Turner as Associate Professor of Nursing, effective August 15, 1992.Mr. Russell S. Valentino as Lecturer in Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one semester, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Steven D. Walt as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Alicyn Warren as Visiting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Thaisa Way as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Anda L. Webb as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period August 1, 1992 through June 30, 1995.Dr. Jurgen H. Wenzel as Research Professor of Neurosurgery, for the period April 9, 1992 through February 28, 1993.Mr. Daniel B. Willingham as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Deborah M. Woolfolk as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period May 1, 1992 through June 30, 1995.Ms. Ida L. Wootten as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective May 1, 1992.Dr. Zhiping Ye as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Paul Yeaton as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Horacio F. Zaglul as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for the period July 1, 1992 through March 31, 1995.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of Chairholder(s)Mr. Jeffrey T. Barth as John Edward Fowler Professor of Clinical Psychology and Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Kenneth Elzinga as Cavaliers' Distinguished Teaching Professor, for five years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. David T. Gies as Commonwealth Professor of Spanish, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Robert C. Higgins as Morris Plan Chair of Consumer Credit, for the period October 1, 1992 through March 31, 1993.Mr. James M. Kauffman as William Clay Parrish, Jr., Professor of Education, for two years, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Kauffman will continue as Professor of Education.Mr. J. Thomas Parsons as F. Palmer Weber Medical Research Professor, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Parsons will continue as Professor of Microbiology.Mr. Thomas Philipose as Frank Talbot, Jr. Visiting Professor of Humanities, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Amy Weinstein as Harry Shure Visiting Professor of Architecture, for the period October 16, 1992 through December 11, 1992.Mr. Richard G. Wilson as Commonwealth Professor of Architectural History, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Brantly Womack as Dorothy Danforth Compton Professor of Public Affairs, for one year, and Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, without term, effective September 1, 1992.(b) Re-Elections of Chairholder(s)Mr. Mark R. Eaker as Robert F. Vandell Research Professor in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, for one year, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Eaker will continue as Professor of Business Administration.Mr. Thomas C. MacAvoy as Paul M. Hammaker Professor of Business Administration, part time, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Ladislau E. Steiner as Alumni Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Walter J. Wadlington as Professor of Legal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Wadlington will continue as James Madison Professor of Law.(c) Leaves of Absence of Chairholder(s)Mr. Elmer L. Gaden, Wills Johnson Professor of Chemical Engineering, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to continue to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Mr. James D. Hamilton, A. Willis Robertson Professor of Economics, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to teach at the University of California, San Diego.Mr. Stanley D. Henderson, F.D.G. Ribble Professor of Law, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, for educational purposes.Mr. William J. Kehoe, William F. O'Dell Professor of Commerce, with pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through January 15, 1993, to do research.Mr. Richard B. Lillich, Howard W. Smith Professor of Law, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through January 15, 1993, for educational purposes.Mr. Aram Vartanian, William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of French Literature, without pay, for the period January 16, 1993 through May 31, 1993, to do research.(d) Changes of Title of Chairholder(s)Dr. George A. Beller from Donald C. Barnes Professor of Cardiology in Internal Medicine to Ruth C. Heede Professor of Cardiology and Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Robert M. Epstein from Distinguished Professor of Anesthesiology to Harold Carron Professor of Anesthesiology, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Bruce J. Hillman from Distinguished Professor of Diagnostic Radiology to Theodore E. Keats Professor of Radiology, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Thomas H. Jackson from Arnold H. Leon Professor of Law to Brokaw Professor of Corporate Law, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. William L. Miller from White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs Professor of Ethics and Institutions, Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies, and Professor of Religious Studies to Commonwealth Professor of Political and Social Thought, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. John K. Whitaker from Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of Economics to Georgia S. Bankard Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1992.(e) Resignations of Chairholder(s)Mr. Thomas H. Courtney, William G. Reynolds Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, effective July 31, 1992, to accept another position.(f) Appointments of Chairholder(s)Mr. O. Whitfield Broome as Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Ray C. Hunt as Associate Dean for External Affairs, for the period August 1, 1992 through June 30, 1993.(g) Re-appointments of Chairholder(s)Dr. Robert M. Epstein as Chair, Department of Anesthesiology, for two years, effective October 1, 1992.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Ms. Mary P. Abouzeid as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Suresh Agarwal as Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. George F. Alheid as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Janet H. Allaire as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty and Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Robert W. Allen, Jr. as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Ernest G. Ammermann as Assistant Professor of Radiology and Assistant Professor of Pathology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Alan Aqualino as Assistant Professor, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Sarbjit S. Aujla as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Carlos A. Bacchetta as Visiting Associate Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Donald G. Baker as Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for the period July 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992.Mr. Yongde Bao as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Theodore Batchman as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for the period June 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992.Mr. Harold W. Berk as Associate Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Stuart S. Berr as Research Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. John S. Blanco as Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Susan H. Blanton as Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, part time, for one year.Dr. Julie L. Blommel as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Linda K. Blum as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective August 1, 1992.Dr. John C. Boatwright as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Robert J. Bookmiller as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. J. Norwood Bosserman as Professor of Architecture, part time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Francis J. Bourgeois as Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Valentina L. Brashers as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.Mr. Alan H. Bridle as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Ms. Bonny G. Bronson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Robert B. Brown as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Robert L. Brown as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Mr. Robert S. Brown as Professor of Education, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. M. Elizabeth Bruns as Research Associate Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Robert Burnett as Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Suzanne M. Burns as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1993.Mr. Edwin T. Burton as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Richard M. Carpenter as Assistant Professor of Comparative Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period July 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992.Dr. Ranes C. Chakravorty as Professor of Surgery, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Philander D. Chase as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Janis C. Childs as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.Ms. Jan M. Christoph as Assistant Professor of Social Work, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Michael L. Coates as Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Jennifer E. Cobb as Assistant Professor, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Carl H. Cofer as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. James J. Condon as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Ms. Deborah C. Conway as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.Mr. Peter F. Cooper as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, DeJarnette Center, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Jamie L. Covell as Assistant Professor of Pathology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Marianne H. Cowley as Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. William H. Craft as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Govert A. Croes as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Mr. Edward J. Cukauskas as Visiting Research Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. David Dabydeen as Visiting Associate Professor of English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Claudette E. Dalton as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period June 1, 1992 through November 30, 1992.Ms. Linda R. Davies as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1993.Mr. Russell H. Davis as Assistant Professor, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Marcia A. Delcourt as Research Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Deborah D. Demicco as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Pamela D. Dennison as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1993.Dr. Byard S. Deputy as Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Robert Diamond as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Bertram Donn as Visiting Professor of Engineering Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. James J. Dowd, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.Ms. Ellen Dunham-Jones as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Ann D. Dunn as Research Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Charles R. Edwards as Associate Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Thomas H. Eldridge as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. William S. Erwin as Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Zhichu Fang as Visiting Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for the period May 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992.Mr. Marc J. Feldman as Visiting Research Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective October 1, 1992.Ms. Margo A. Figgins as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Murray H. Finley as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. M. G. Finn as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Kathryn C. Finnell as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Marcia D. Finney as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Mary E. Fisher as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.Mr. Tor A. Fjeldly as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for the period August 16, 1992 through August 31, 1992.Mr. Jorge A. Flores as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Edward B. Fomalont as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Dr. Hilton L. Fowler as Professor of Neurology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Anthony Frankfurter as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Arthur E. Freedlender as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Ms. Tanya Furman as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for two months, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Glenn A. Gaesser as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Ted R. Galbraith as Assistant Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Bruce D. Gaylinn as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Vladimir G. Gelnovatch as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Teresa P. Germanson as Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Amitav Ghosh as Visiting Scholar, Center for South Asian Studies, for the period April 1, 1992 through August 31, 1994.Dr. Carol M. Gilbert as Associate Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. James T. Gill, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Lawrence W. Gimple as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Clarice P. Gressard as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Charles W. Gross as Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Patty J. Hale as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.Ms. Melvina P. Hamilton as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Emily J. Hauenstein as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.Mr. Gary L. Hawk as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. David S. Heeschen as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Dr. Robert R. Heider as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Joanne M. Herbert as Research Assistant Professor of Education, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Patricia B. Higgins as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. David E. Hogg as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Mr. Yunsheng Huang as Associate Professor of Architectural History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Kathleen M. Hudson as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. James L. Hughes as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Frank P. Hunter as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Marcia A. Invernizzi as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Robert W. Irvin, Jr. as Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Roanoke Program, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Tetsundo Iwakuni as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Michael J. Iwanik as Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Nabil F. Jarmukli as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Ananda R. Jayaweera as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Sheila M. Johnson as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Kenneth I. Kellerman as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Mr. Anthony R. Kerr as Research Professor of Astronomy, for three years, effective June 1, 1992, and Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. James R. Kerrigan as Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period August 1, 1992 through June 30, 1993.Ms. Suzette M. Kimball as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective October 5, 1992.Ms. Marilyn G. King as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.Ms. Valerie S. King as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Michael T. Kinter as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for the period July 1, 1992 through September 30, 1992.Dr. Paul T. Klas as Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective August 1, 1992.Mr. James R. Klein as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Joan E. Klein as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Lisa A. Kolp as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Harold J. Krent as Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. James J. Lanter as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. James M. Larner as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Robert B. Lechner as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Kwyro Lee as Visiting Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Virginia K. Lee as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1993.Mr. Robert S. Leventhal as Assistant Professor of German, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Jules I. Levine as Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Jaqueline Lichtman as Associate Professor, General Faculty, Law Library, for the period of August 16, 1992 through May 15, 1995.Mr. Harvey S. Liszt as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Dr. Jing W. Liu as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. John W. Lloyd as Research Associate Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Felix J. Lockman as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Dr. Mark A. Lovell as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Betsy A. Luxford as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Barbara J. Mann as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Megan Marlatt as Assistant Professor of Studio Art, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Felicia C. Marston as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.Mr. Robert S. Marvin as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Nancy L. McDaniel as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Shirley L. Menaker as Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Janet J. Michie as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Antonia C. Mills as Research Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Susan L. Mintz as Assistant Professor of Education, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Susan D. Moss as Associate Professor, General Faculty, part time, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Jan P. Muizelaar as Visiting Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. William H. Myers as Visiting Scholar in Chemistry, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Steven A. Newman as Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Gregg E. Newschwander as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1993.Mr. Frank D. Nidiffer as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. George A. Nowacek as Associate Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Katherine B. Nuckolls as Visiting Professor in Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1993.Mr. Thomas J. O'Leary as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Gary H. Oberlender as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Justine E. Owens as Research Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Robert J. Pafford as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Shing-Kuo Pan as Visiting Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Joseph J. Pancrazio as Research Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective August 1, 1992.Ms. Joanne H. Peach as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.Dr. Erle E. Peacock, Jr. as Visiting Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Sonia Pearson-White as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective August 1, 1992.Dr. Marvin E. Perkins as Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Catawba, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Richard A. Peterson as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. John T. Philbrick as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Martin T. Phillips as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Jesse R. Pitts as Visiting Scholar in Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Frank V. Pollio as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Marian W. Pospieszalski as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering and Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Dr. Robert D. Powers as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Terrance W. Pratt as Research Professor of Computer Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Thomas Pruzinsky as Visiting Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Lieutenant Colonel William A. Randall as Professor of Military Science, for the period June 19, 1992 through January 31, 1993.Mr. S. Waite Rawls, III as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. G. Carleton Ray as Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. John R. Redick as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Judson P. Reis as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Appavoo Rengasamy as Research Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective August 1, 1992.Dr. Arie M. Rijke as Assistant Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Ellen A. Roberts as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Morton S. Roberts as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Ms. Mary E. Ropka as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.Mr. Alfredo H. Rosas-Peniche as Visiting Scholar in Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Fred D. Rosi as Research Professor of Materials Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Dorothy F. Rudolph as Associate Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Eduardo Rueda-Vasquez as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Beverly H. Runge as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Thomas V. Ryan as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Christopher F. Sacchi as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Hilary A. Sanfey as Assistant Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Nancy F. Santilli as Associate Professor of Neurology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Tomio Sasaki as Visiting Professor of Neurosurgery, for two years, effective May 1, 1992.Mr. Peter M. Scharf as Lecturer in Religious Studies, part time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Robert A. Schwab as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Peter P. Sforza as Assistant Professor of Radiology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. John D. Shannon as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Zhifeng Shao as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for the period August 16, 1992 through June 30, 1995.Mr. Jonathan I. Shiff as Assistant Professor of Italian, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Charles D. Smith as Visiting Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1993.Mr. Steven Smith as Assistant Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Thomas M. Smith as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective May 1, 1992.Dr. Cynthia A. Spaulding as Associate Professor of Radiology, for the period July 1, 1992 through July 31, 1992.Dr. Thomas J. Spicuzza as Assistant Professor of Neurology, General Medical Faculty, part time, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Douglas R. Spitz as Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Kotteazeth Srikumar as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Melita Steiner as Research Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Ruth L. Stornetta as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Michael A. Stroscio as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. William M. Sutherland as Research Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Anthony R. Thompson as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Ms. Carol W. Tomlinson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Dorothy G. Tompkins as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, part time, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Enrique R. Torre as Research Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Patricia A. Trimmer as Research Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. June L. Triplett as Visiting Professor of Nursing, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.Dr. Jonathon D. Truwit as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Barry E. Turner as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Dr. Robert L. Turner, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Dorothy Twohig as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Paul A. Vanden Bout as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering and Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Diane E. Wakat as Associate Professor of Education, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. George W. Ward, Jr. as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Clyde M. Watson, Jr. as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. James O. West as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for the period July 1, 1992 through September 30, 1992.Mr. George F. Williams as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Brenda L. Wilson as Assistant Professor of Social Work, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Brian Wispelwey as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Moses K. Woode as Associate Professor of Medical Education, for the period May 16, 1992 through June 30, 1992.Dr. Andrew M. Woods as Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Henry A. Wooten as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Mr. Yongbo Xu as Visiting Research Associate Professor of Materials Science, part time, for the period June 1, 1992 through September 30, 1992.Dr. Glenn R. Yank as Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. J. Joe Yazel as Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Chuntong Ying as Visiting Research Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for the period August 15, 1992 through September 14, 1992.Ms. Joelle Zask as Visiting Scholar in Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Jose S. de Olmos as Visiting Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Dr. John T. Allen from Clinical Assistant Professor of Urology, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Urology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Paul A. Carmichael from Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Thomas L. Gorsuch from Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Professor of Internal Medicine, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Richard J. Grayson, Jr. from Clinical Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, Roanoke Program to Clinical Professor of Otolaryngology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Doris M. Haverstick from Instructor in Pathology to Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Thomas R. Henretta from Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program to Clinical Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. John E. Humphries from Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective May 1, 1992.Dr. William H. Humphries from Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Family Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Stephen S. Kennedy from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Edith G. Lawrence from Clinical Assistant Professor of Education to Clinical Associate Professor of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. John S. Minasi from Instructor in Surgery, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. John E. Morgan from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Jonathon Z. Schuch from Instructor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. David E. Smith from Assistant Professor, General Faculty to Associate Professor, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1992 through January 15, 1994.Dr. John W. Starr, III from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. W. Graham Stephens from Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Family Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Richard M. Surrusco from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Valerie O. Sutter from Assistant Professor, General Faculty to Associate Professor, General Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. John B. Sydnor from Clinical Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, Roanoke Program to Clinical Professor of Otolaryngology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Simon P. Anderson, Associate Professor of Economics, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through January 15, 1993, to teach at Charles University in Prague.Mr. Dennis W. Barnes, Professor, General Faculty, without pay, for the period June 2, 1992 through June 1, 1993, to serve as President of the Southeastern Universities Research Association.Mr. Michael E. Brint, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to teach at Kenyon College.Mr. Avery Catlin, University Professor of Engineering, without pay, for the period January 16, 1993 through May 31, 1993, to continue to qualify for the phased retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Mr. Alon Confino, Acting Assistant Professor of History, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to do research.Ms. Ellen Contini-Morava, Associate Professor of Anthropology, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through January 15, 1993, to do research.Mr. Stephen B. Cushman, Associate Professor of English, with partial pay, for the period January 16, 1993 through May 31, 1993, to accept a Fulbright Professorship.Ms. Martha A. Derthick, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through January 15, 1993, to teach at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.Mr. Scott K. Deveaux, Associate Professor of Music, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to do research.Dr. Milton T. Edgerton, Professor of Plastic Surgery, with partial pay, for one year, effective July 1, 1992, to do research.Mr. Mark W. Edmundson, Associate Professor of English, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to accept a Fellowship at the Commonwealth Center for Literary and Cultural Change.Mr. Richard T. Eppink, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, without pay, for the period January 16, 1993 through May 31, 1993, to do research.Ms. Marjorie A. Flavin, Associate Professor of Economics, without pay, for the period of September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to teach at the University of California, San Diego.Ms. Donna F. Frede, Associate Professor of Nursing, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through August 31, 1993, for educational purposes.Mr. Arthur E. Freedlender, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, without pay, for the period June 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, for medical reasons.Ms. Diana R. Harrington, Professor of Business Administration, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, for educational purposes.Mr. James J. Kauzlarich, Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to do research.Mr. Howard C. Kutchai, Professor of Physiology, with pay, for the period July 7, 1992 through November 15, 1992, to do research.Ms. Emily E. Lape, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty and Clinical Assistant Professor of Social Work, General Medical Faculty, without pay, for the period August 1, 1992 through August 15, 1992, for personal reasons.Dr. Dan Lawson, Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, without pay, for the period June 1, 1992 through June 30, 1992, to do research.Mr. Paul G. Mahoney, Associate Professor of Law, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, for educational purposes.Ms. Maureen F. McKone, Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty and Instructor in Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, without pay, for the period July 10, 1992 through July 24, 1992, for personal reasons.Mr. Jerry R. Moore, Professor of Education, with pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through January 15, 1993, to do research.Ms. Angelika S. Powell, Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, without pay, for the period October 1, 1992 through September 30, 1993, to serve as Director of the Adult Education School in Guestrow, Germany.Mr. Terrance W. Pratt, Research Professor of Computer Science, without pay, for the period June 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to do research.Mr. Theodore W. Rall, Professor of Pharmacology, with partial pay, for the period May 1, 1992 through April 30, 1993, to continue to qualify for the early retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Mr. K. L. Seshagiri Rao, Professor of Religious Studies, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through January 15, 1993, to do research.Mr. G. Carleton Ray, Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, because of insufficient research funds.Mr. John Ruvalds, Professor of Physics, without pay, for the period January 16, 1993 through May 31, 1993, to do research as part of a sesquicentennial award.Ms. Karen L. Ryan-Hayes, Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with pay, for the period October 6, 1992 through November 17, 1992, for Modified Service Leave under the Faculty Leave Policy.Mr. S. Fred Singer, Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, for personal reasons.Mr. Michael J. Smith, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through January 15, 1993, to do research.Ms. Inhye K. Son, Lecturer, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, without pay, for the period May 29, 1992 through July 24, 1992, for personal reasons.Mr. John F. Tinkler, Assistant Professor of Rhetoric, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to be Visiting Assistant Professor at the University of California, Berkeley.Mr. Mark A. White, Assistant Professor of Commerce, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to do research as part of a sesquicentennial award.Ms. Ellen M. Whitener, Assistant Professor of Commerce, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, for educational purposes and to do research as part of a sesquicentennial award.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Peter S. Baker from Visiting Associate Professor of English to Associate Professor of English, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Richard H. Clarida from Visiting Associate Professor of Economics to Associate Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1993.Mr. William H. Dubbs from Assistant Professor, General Medical Center Faculty to Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period May 1, 1992 through June 30, 1993.Mr. Shiferaw Gurmu from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics to Assistant Professor of Economics, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Martin A. Hoard from Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery to Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Joel W. Hockensmith from Assistant Professor of Biochemistry to Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Jimmy A. Knight from Professor of Chemistry, Clinch Valley College, to Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective August 12, 1992.Dr. Thomas G. Langer from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Assistant Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Wen-Chin Ouyang from Acting Assistant Professor of Arabic Languages and Literatures to Assistant Professor of Arabic Languages and Literatures, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Elizabeth A. Scarlett from Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish to Assistant Professor of Spanish, for three years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Karen J. Schwenzer from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Thomas M. Smith from Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences to Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1993.Mr. Wayne L. Smith from Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty to Lecturer, General Faculty for the period September 1, 1992 through August 31, 1995.Dr. Diane G. Snustad from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period August 1, 1992 through June 30, 1995.Mr. Rizwan Uddin from Research Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering to Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for three years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Laszlo Zaborszky from Research Associate Professor of Otolaryngology to Associate Professor of Neurology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Natalie A. Beachy, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, effective June 30, 1992, to accept another position.Mr. Reda Bensmaia, Associate Professor of French Languages and Literatures, effective May 31, 1992, to accept another position.Mr. Charles E. Brownell, Associate Professor of Architectural History, effective May 31, 1992, to accept another position.Mr. Robert P. Cook, Associate Professor of Computer Science, effective April 24, 1992, to accept another position.Dr. Stephen B. Edge, Assistant Professor of Surgery, effective July 2, 1992, to accept another position.Mr. Charles M. Engel, Associate Professor of Economics, effective May 31, 1992, to accept another position.Dr. Anita S. Everett, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective June 30, 1992, for personal reasons.Mr. Robert S. Fulcher, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective June 30, 1992, for medical reasons.Mr. William P. Glasheen, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1992, to accept another position.Mr. Charles F. Gressard, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, effective August 31, 1992, for personal reasons.Mr. Timothy R. Hinkin, Assistant Professor of Commerce, effective June 1, 1992, to accept another position.Mr. Douglas E. Hollowell, Instructor, General Medical Faculty, effective May 8, 1992, to accept another position.Dr. Ai-Xuan L. Holterman, Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, effective May 17, 1992, to accept another position.Dr. Mark W. Keller, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective July 31, 1992, to accept another position.Dr. Dan Lawson, Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1992, to accept another position.Mr. Jude W. LeBlanc, Assistant Professor of Architecture, effective May 31, 1992, to accept another position.Mr. Doo-Sung Lee, Visiting Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, effective August 15, 1992, for personal reasons.Mr. Jan M. Levine, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective June 30, 1992, to accept another position.Dr. Philip A. Lowry, Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective August 15, 1992, for personal reasons.Ms. Margaret L. Mortensen, Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, effective July 15, 1992, to accept another position.Dr. Michael L. Moulton, Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, effective November 30, 1991, for personal reasons.Mr. Ashim Mukhopadhyay, Research Assistant Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, effective July 15, 1992, to accept another position.Dr. Neal R. Nygard, Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective July 31, 1992, to accept another position.Mr. Timothy G. O'Rourke, Professor, General Faculty, effective August 3, 1992, to accept another position.Mr. Stephen H. Pavy, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective June 30, 1992, to pursue a doctoral degree.Mr. Allen W. Saunders, Acting Lecturer, General Faculty, effective August 31, 1992, to enter graduate school.Dr. Louis J. Schott, Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, effective July 31, 1992, to enter private practice.Dr. Joseph D. Schwartzman, Associate Professor of Pathology, effective August 31, 1992, to accept another position.Dr. James G. Seymour, Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective June 30, 1992, for personal reasons.Dr. Cynthia A. Spaulding, Associate Professor of Radiology, effective July 31, 1992, to accept another position.Dr. Richard B. Sporik, Visiting Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective April 30, 1992, to accept another position.Dr. David A. Steiner, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, effective May 15, 1992, to enter private practice.Dr. Kelly L. Volmer, Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1992, to accept another position.Dr. Frederic B. Walker, IV, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 22, 1992, to accept another position.Ms. Nancy L. Wayne, Research Assistant Professor of Biology, effective June 30, 1992, to accept another position.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. James F. Adams, Instructor, General Faculty, effective July 31, 1992. Mr. Adams has been a member of the faculty since August 25, 1977.Mr. William R. Carriker, Professor of Education, effective January 15, 1993. Mr. Carriker has been a member of the faculty since July 15, 1965.Dr. Leland L. Cross, Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1992. Dr. Cross has been a member of the faculty since November 1, 1980.Mr. Matthias E. Kayhoe, Professor of Architecture, effective May 31, 1992. Mr. Kayhoe has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1959.Mr. Hugh S. Landes, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective January 15, 1993. Mr. Landes has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1957.Mr. Dale R. Metcalf, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective January 15, 1993. Mr. Metcalf has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1967.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. John A. Alexander as Assistant Dean for Administration, for the period August 1, 1992 through August 31, 1995.Ms. Sara W. Arneson as Associate Dean, School of Nursing, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Beth L. Brockell as Assistant to the Dean of Student Affairs, for the period August 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993.Dr. Randolph J. Canterbury as Chair, Department of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Pamela A. Cook as Associate Dean of Development for Arts and Sciences, for the period July 15, 1992 through June 30, 1995.Mr. Carlos M. Eire as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. James P. Ignizio as Chair, Department of Systems Engineering, for five years, effective August 1, 1992.Ms. Polley A. McClure as Associate Vice President and Chief Information Officer, for three years, effective October 1, 1992.Ms. Barbara Nolan as Vice Provost, for the period September 1, 1992 through June 30, 1995.Mr. Randall R. Smith as Associate Dean for Administration, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Richard T. Vail as Associate Dean for Development and Alumni Affairs, School of Medicine, for three years, effective June 1, 1992.Dr. Gwo-Jaw Wang as Acting Chair, Department of Orthopaedics, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Anda L. Webb as Assistant to the Provost, for the period August 1, 1992 through June 30, 1995.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Dr. John T. Ashley as Associate Vice President for Health Sciences, for two years, effective May 23, 1992.Dr. B. Lewis Barnett, Jr. as Chair, Department of Family Medicine, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Ms. Colette Capone as Associate Vice President and Director of the Budget, for the period July 1, 1992 through June 30, 1995.Dr. Charles L. Crockett as Associate Dean, Roanoke Program, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Claudette E. Dalton as Assistant Dean of Medical Education, for the period June 1, 1992 through November 30, 1992.Mr. Larry E. Decker as Associate Dean for Administration, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. William A. Elwood as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Charles J. Flickinger as Chair, Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, for five years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. James C. Garrison as Interim Chair of Pharmacology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Jay Y. Gillenwater as Chair, Department of Urology, for five years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. J. Robert Henderson as Associate Vice President for Health Sciences - Finance and Administration, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. William F. Lanier as Assistant Dean, Federal Bureau of Investigation, National Academy, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Jen-Shih Lee as Chair, Department of Biomedical Engineering, for five years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Jules I. Levine as Associate Vice President for Health Sciences - Facilities and Planning, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Shirley L. Menaker as Associate Provost for Academic Support, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Gregg E. Newschwander as Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, School of Nursing, for three years, effective July 1, 1993.Dr. Robert J. Roberts as Chair, Department of Pediatrics, for five years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Andrea F. Rowland as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. William G. Rowland, Jr. as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. V. Shamim Sisson as Assistant Dean of Students, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Nickolas J. Sojka as Chair, Department of Comparative Medicine, for the period July 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992.Ms. Elaine B. Steen as Assistant to the Vice President for Health Sciences, for one year, effective June 15, 1992.Mr. Bradley G. Volk as Assistant Dean for Administration, School of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1993.Dr. Peyton E. Weary as Chair, Department of Dermatology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. A. Pamela Woodie as Director of Major Events, for the period August 2, 1992 through June 30, 1995.

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. William R. Carriker, Professor of Education, effective December 31, 1992.Mr. Matthias E. Kayhoe, Professor of Architecture, effective May 31, 1992.

ELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Associate Professor Emeritus:Mr. Roger Boyle, Associate Professor of Drama, effective July 31, 1992.Mr. Hugh S. Landes, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective January 15, 1993.Mr. Dale R. Metcalf, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective January 15, 1993.

DEATH
-----

TERMINATION
-----------

CHANGE IN RESIGNATION OF MS. GRACE E. FIELDER
---------------------------------------------

The President announced that the resignation of Ms. Grace E. Fielder, Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, effective May 31, 1992, to accept another position, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of May 23, 1992, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows: Ms. Grace E. Fielder, Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, effective August 31, 1992, to accept another position.

CHANGE IN ELECTION OF DR. JULIA C. IEZZONI
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Dr. Julia C. Iezzoni as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992, as shown in the Minutes of the Meeting of May 23, 1992, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Dr. Julia C. Iezzoni as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.

CHANGE IN RETIREMENT OF MR. SHAO-CHUAN LENG
-------------------------------------------

The President announced that the retirement of Mr. Shao-Chuan Leng, Dorothy Danforth Compton Professor of Public Affairs, effective May 31, 1992, as shown in the Minutes of the Meeting of March 28, 1992, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:

CHANGE IN LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MR. FRED MAUS
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Mr. Fred Maus, Assistant Professor of Music, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to accept a fellowship as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of May 23, 1992, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Mr. Fred Maus, Assistant Professor of Music, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to accept a fellowship.

CHANGE IN RESIGNATION OF MS. SUSAN D. MOSS
------------------------------------------

The President announced that the resignation of Ms. Susan D. Moss, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective May 31, 1992, to enter private practice, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of May 23, 1992, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:

CORRECTION IN RE-ELECTION OF MR. NAGARAJ NANDHAKUMAR
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the re-election Mr. Nagaraj Nandakumer as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992, as shown in the Minutes of the Meeting of May 23, 1992, be and it is hereby corrected to read as follows:Mr. Nagaraj Nandhakumar as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.

CHANGE IN PROMOTION OF MR. STEPHEN F. RAILTON
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the promotion of Mr. Stephen F. Railton from Associate Professor of English to Professor of English, effective September 1, 1992, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of May 23, 1992, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Mr. Stephen F. Railton from Associate Professor of English to Professor of English, effective September 1, 1992.

CHANGE IN THE ADMINISTRATIVE APPOINTMENT OF MR. ROUHOLLAH K. RAMAZANI
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the appointment of Mr. Rouhollah K. Ramazani as Chair, Department of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992 as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of May 23, 1992, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:

CHANGE IN THE RE-ELECTION OF MS. ANN L. SOUTHWELL
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the re-election of Ms. Ann L. Southwell as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992, as shown in the Minutes of the Meeting of May 23, 1992, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Ms. Ann L. Southwell as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.

CORRECTION OF THE CHANGE OF TITLE OF MR. G. EDWARD WHITE
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the change of title of Mr. G. Edward White from John Barbee Minor Professor of Law, Sullivan & Cromwell Professor of Law, and Professor of History to John Barbee Minor Professor of Law, Professor of History, and University Professor, effective July 1, 1992, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 28, 1992, be and it is hereby corrected to read as follows:Mr. G. Edward White from John Barbee Minor Professor of Law, Sullivan & Cromell Professor of Law, and Professor of History to John Barbee Minor Professor of Law and History and University Professor, effective July 1, 1992.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEELECTIONS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Ms. Shirley C. Belcher as Instructor in English, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Kimberly D. Bynum as Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, for the period August 1, 1992 through June 30, 1994.Mr. Thomas M. Costa as Assistant Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Mary F. Darcy as Assistant Professor of Psychology, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Mary A. Eubanks as Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Amelia J. Harris as Assistant Professor of Modern Languages, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Edward J. Johnson, Jr. as Lecturer in Foreign Languages, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Richard L. Kendrick as Lecturer in Business, Clinch Valley College, for the period June 22, 1992 through June 30, 1995.Mr. Robert H. Lophovsky as Lecturer in Sociology, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Suzanna E. Masters as Instructor in Music, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. David A. McTier as Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. David L. Palmer as Lecturer in Communication, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Sheila D. Rhea as Instructor in English, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Sandra C. Richardson as Assistant Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Elizabeth L. Steele as Assistant Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Margie A. Tucker as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Robert D. VanGundy as Assistant Professor of Natural Science, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Marla L. Weitzman as Lecturer in English, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Brian S. Wills as Assistant Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. John E. Yancey as Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, for the period August 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Christopher F. Achua as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. LeAnder Canady as Associate Professor of Art, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Robert J. Cantrell as Assistant Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Roy W. Ely as Professor of Education, part time, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. L. Sue Greer as Assistant Professor of Sociology, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Betty M. Johnson as Professor of Nursing, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Matthew J. Mariano as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Chris A. Onwuzurike as Associate Professor of Psychology, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Ramakrishna P. Polamraju as Assistant Professor of Computer Science and Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Roman I. Zylawy as Associate Professor of French, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty member be and she is hereby promoted:Ms. Dana G. Kilgore from Assistant Professor of Accounting to Associate Professor of Accounting, Clinch Valley College, effective September 1, 1992.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty member be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Clifford A. Edwards, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Clinch Valley College, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to pursue doctorate.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Robert L. Dise, Assistant Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1992, for personal reasons.Mr. Glenn C. Gamst, Assistant Professor of Psychology, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1992, to accept another position.Ms. Mary J. Lewis, Assistant Professor of English, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1992, for personal reasons.Ms. Elissa M. Lutz, Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1992, for personal reasons.Ms. Dania M. Meghabghab, Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, effective June 15, 1992, for personal reasons.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Ms. Kimberly D. Bynum as Head Coach of Women's Basketball, Clinch Valley College, for the period August 1, 1992 through June 30, 1994.Mr. LeAnder Canady as Acting Chair, Department of Visual and Performing Arts, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Sheila B. Cox as Registrar, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. George E. Culbertson as Chief Administrative and Finance Officer, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Roy W. Ely as Acting Director of Development, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Betty M. Johnson as Chair, Department of Nursing, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Richard L. Kendrick as Director of Financial Affairs, Clinch Valley College, for the period June 22, 1992 through June 30, 1995.Ms. Lana C. Low as Chief Institutional Advancement Officer, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Preston W. Mitchell as Head Coach, Men's Basketball, Clinch Valley College, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Richard H. Peake as Chair, Department of Languages and Literatures, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Ms. Robin P. Benke as Director of Library Services, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. John G. Blackburn as Chair, Department of History and Philosophy, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Guy V. Briggs as Assistant Director of Adult Studies and Continuing Education, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Carroll W. Dale as Athletic Director, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Richard A. Davidson as Chair, Department of Education, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Paul D. Elosser as Chair, Department of Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Randy G. Gilmer as Director of Visual Aids, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Julie A. Johannes as Head Athletic Trainer, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. David L. Kendall as Chair, Department of Business and Economics, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Garrett W. Sheldon as Chair, Department of Social and Behavioral Science, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Philip C. Shelton as Chair, Department of Natural Sciences, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.

ELECTION OF MR. L. JAY LEMONS AS INTERIM CHANCELLOR OF CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. L. Jay Lemons, be and he is hereby elected Interim Chancellor, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective August 12, 1992.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JAY Y. GILLENWATER PROFESSORSHIP IN UROLOGY
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the Jay Y. Gillenwater Professorship in Urology, this Chair to become effective at such time as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to Mr. Horace Fralin and the American Urological Association who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NORMAN J. KNORR PROFESSORSHIP IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the Norman J. Knorr Professorship in the School of Medicine. The Board is grateful to Mrs. Louise Nerancy who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOHN T. AND LOUISE NERANCY PROFESSORSHIP IN NEUROSCIENCES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the John T. and Louise Nerancy Professorship in Neurosciences. The Board is grateful to Mrs. Louise Nerancy who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE THOMAS F. BERGIN TEACHING PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Law a Chair to be known as the Thomas F. Bergin Teaching Professorship in Law, this Chair to become effective at such time as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to Messrs. Frederick W. Beinecke, Walter G. Dunnington, Jr., Joseph R. Gladden and others who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

RE-ELECTION OF MR. DANIEL K. FRIERSON TO THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. Daniel K. Frierson be and he is hereby re-elected to the White Burkett Miller Center Council, for three years, effective October 30, 1992.

RE-ELECTION OF MR. HOWARD W. MCCALL TO THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. Howard W. McCall be and he is hereby re-elected to the White Burkett Miller Center Council, for one year, effective October 30, 1992.

RE-ELECTION OF MR. CLAYTON WILHITE TO THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. Clayton Wilhite be and he is hereby re-elected to the White Burkett Miller Center Council, for two years, effective October 30, 1992.

ESTABLISHMENT OF A NEW DEPARTMENT IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE: THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH EVALUATION SCIENCES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS there is demonstrable need in the School of Medicine and the Health Sciences Center for instruction and research capabilities in the fields of biostatistics, epidemiology, informatics, and health services research and these same disciplines are essential to the support of both biomedical research (basic and clinical) and population-based health services research;WHEREAS initial funding of the new department is to be accomplished by reallocation of funds from several Health Sciences Center sources;WHEREAS this action is proposed by the Dean of the School of Medicine and supported by the Executive and Medical Advisory Committees of the School of Medicine, the Vice President for Health Sciences, and the President;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that there is created within the School of Medicine a Department of Health Evaluation Sciences. The department will have four divisions: biostatistics, epidemiology, informatics, and health services research. This action is subject to the final approval of the State Council of Higher Education of Virginia.

ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW FACULTY RANKS FOR LIBRARIANS
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS librarians, members of the administrative general faculty, have not, since 1987, been elected to academic professorial rank; andWHEREAS it is the approved practice in most research libraries to provide a system of promotion for librarians through either academic or professional ranks; andWHEREAS it is the practice in most research libraries to use the term "librarian" for those professional librarians holding faculty appointments;THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the following library faculty ranks be and they are hereby established:Affiliate LibrarianAssistant LibrarianAssociate LibrarianLibrarianThese titles would apply to all new elections of library faculty; librarians already holding professorial ranks may retain their current ranks, if they so choose.These are new library faculty ranks within the category of the general administrative faculty. Library faculty will remain members of the general administrative faculty and, regarding the terms and conditions of employment, will continue to be governed by the policies pertaining to the general faculty.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE B.SC. DEGREE PROGRAM IN NURSING IN THE DEPARTMENT OF NURSING AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the degree title Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) in Nursing be and it is hereby established in the Department of Nursing at Clinch Valley College, subject to approval by the State Council of Higher Education of Virginia.

APPROVAL FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA TO APPLY FEDERAL REGULATIONS TO ALL RESEARCH INVOLVING HUMAN SUBJECTS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the University of Virginia's policy to apply federal guidelines governing research involving human subjects to all such research, not simply to that which is federally funded, be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE PLAN FOR THE YEAR 2000
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Plan for the Year 2000 in its three elements: the Academic Plan, the School Plans and the Support Plans, be and it is hereby approved.

WRITE-OFF OF BAD DEBTS AND FREE SERVICE FOR THE MEDICAL CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------------

Bad Debts

$ 6,278,937.60

Indigent Care

31,070,634.338

\--------------

Total

$37,349,571.93

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Medical Center Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts included in the University of Virginia Medical Center Accounts Committee Reports for the May 18, 1992 and August 17, 1992 meetings which include the write-offs for the months of March through July 1992, totaling $37,349,571.93, and consisting of the following: Bad Debts$ 6,278,937.60Indigent Care31,070,634.338--------------Total$37,349,571.93 RESOLVED FURTHER that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of debts represented by such accounts.

APPROVAL OF ALLOCATION OF FUNDS FOR DEBT SERVICE, CAPITAL OUTLAY AND OTHER PURPOSES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Retirement of Indebtedness:

1\. To provide principal and interest on the Birdwood property

$ 1,935.00

Capital Outlay Projects and Other Purposes:

1\. University Press

$111,224.91

2\. Michie Building

3,500.00

3\. Athletic Offices

267,146.76

4\. Forestry/Blue Ridge Site

222,793.93

\-----------

Total Capital Outlay

$604,665.60

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that funds be designated for the retirement of indebtedness and capital outlay projects consisting of the following: Retirement of Indebtedness:1. To provide principal and interest on the Birdwood property$ 1,935.00Capital Outlay Projects and Other Purposes:1. University Press$111,224.912. Michie Building3,500.003. Athletic Offices267,146.764. Forestry/Blue Ridge Site222,793.93-----------Total Capital Outlay$604,665.60

APPROVAL OF THE 1992-1993 MEDICAL CENTER CAPITAL BUDGET
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Board of Visitors at its May 23, 1992 meeting approved the 1992-1993 Medical Center budget with the exception of a $21,130,000 undesignated capital reserve; andWHEREAS the Medical Center has provided a specific plan outlining the use of the $21,130,000;RESOLVED that the capital expenditure plan totaling $21,130,000 as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF AMENDMENT TO CURRENT FUNDS GUIDELINES
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that, effective October 9, 1992, the Current Funds Guidelines be and they are amended to reflect the changes as shown in Attachment A.

APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the University of Virginia's Medical Center desires to contract with a vendor for the provision of environmental services at an estimated cost of $7 million per year for a five-year period, with an option to renew the contract for one additional three-year period. During this period, the vendor shall provide housekeeping and other support services to the Medical Center and other areas in the Health Sciences Center. This contract shall become effective January 1, 1993, and will replace an existing contract; andWHEREAS, the University will, through a competitive process, select a firm to provide these services;RESOLVED that the University may enter into a contract with the selected firm to provide environmental services, and that the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be and he is hereby authorized to execute the contract prepared by the Chief Contracting Officer and approved by the General Counsel.

APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL REPORT PERTAINING TO EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATEUniversity of Virginia John Lee Pratt Funds For Year Ended June 30, 1992
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

06/30/91 Unexpended Balance

FY 92 Net Total Allocations(1) (1)Allocations include amounts approved by the Board of Visitors for 1992-93.

Total Allocations

FY 91-92 Expenditures

06/30/92 Unexpended Balance

Arts & Sciences Biology

Student Support

$ 107,658.46

$ 110,946.00

$ 218,604.46

$ 98,398.17

$ 120,206.29

Faculty Salary Support

(0.54)

0.00

(0.54)

0.00

(0.54)

\* \*Research & Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research & Equipment

214,561.50

139,054.00

353,615.50

95,853.23

257,762.27

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

322,219.42

250,000.00

572,219.42

194,251.40

377,968.02

Chemistry

Student Support

118,090.92

130,000.00

248,090.92

115,284.01

132,806.91

Faculty Salary Support

15,800.24

36,000.00

51,800.24

29,156.88

22,643.36

\*Research & Equipment

179,498.32

84,000.00

263,498.32

221,434.92

42,063.40

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

313,389.48

250,000.00

563,389.48

365,875.81

197,513.67

Mathematics

Student Support

167,143.72

134,760.00

301,903.72

90,564.95

211,338.77

Faculty Salary Support

90,567.74

122,200.00

212,767.74

61,515.26

151,252.48

\*Research & Equipment

103,757.68

(6,960.00)

96,797.68

16,496.79

80,300.89

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

361,469.14

250,000.00

611,469.14

168,577.00

442,892.14

Physics

Student Support

279,574.26

0.00

279,574.26

169,668.00

109,906.26

Faculty Salary Support

(41,929.67)

112,143.00

70,213.33

35,181.18

35,032.15

\*Research & Equipment

398,919.28

137,857.00

536,776.28

145,040.96

391,735.32

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

636,563.87

250,000.00

886,563.87

349,890.14

536,673.73

School of Medicine

Student Support

332,641.10

325,500.00

658,141.10

325,555.82

332,585.28

\*Research & Equipment

1,043,213.18

674,500.00

1,717,713.18

615,517.51

1,102,195.67

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

1,375,854.28

1,000,000.00

2,375,854.28

941,073.33

1,434,780.95

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

\---------------

TOTALS

$ 3,009,496.19

$ 2,000,000.00

$ 5,009,496.19

$ 2,019,667.68

$ 2,989,828.51

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the financial report pertaining to funds received from the estate of John Lee Pratt for the period ending June 30, 1992, be and it is hereby approved.

06/30/91 Unexpended BalanceFY 92 Net Total Allocations(1) (1)Allocations include amounts approved by the Board of Visitors for 1992-93. Total AllocationsFY 91-92 Expenditures06/30/92 Unexpended BalanceArts & Sciences BiologyStudent Support$ 107,658.46$ 110,946.00$ 218,604.46$ 98,398.17$ 120,206.29Faculty Salary Support(0.54)0.00(0.54)0.00(0.54)\* \*Research & Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research & Equipment214,561.50139,054.00353,615.5095,853.23257,762.27---------------------------------------------------------------------------322,219.42250,000.00572,219.42194,251.40377,968.02ChemistryStudent Support118,090.92130,000.00248,090.92115,284.01132,806.91Faculty Salary Support15,800.2436,000.0051,800.2429,156.8822,643.36\*Research & Equipment179,498.3284,000.00263,498.32221,434.9242,063.40---------------------------------------------------------------------------313,389.48250,000.00563,389.48365,875.81197,513.67MathematicsStudent Support167,143.72134,760.00301,903.7290,564.95211,338.77Faculty Salary Support90,567.74122,200.00212,767.7461,515.26151,252.48\*Research & Equipment103,757.68(6,960.00)96,797.6816,496.7980,300.89---------------------------------------------------------------------------361,469.14250,000.00611,469.14168,577.00442,892.14PhysicsStudent Support279,574.260.00279,574.26169,668.00109,906.26Faculty Salary Support(41,929.67)112,143.0070,213.3335,181.1835,032.15\*Research & Equipment398,919.28137,857.00536,776.28145,040.96391,735.32---------------------------------------------------------------------------636,563.87250,000.00886,563.87349,890.14536,673.73School of MedicineStudent Support332,641.10325,500.00658,141.10325,555.82332,585.28\*Research & Equipment1,043,213.18674,500.001,717,713.18615,517.511,102,195.67---------------------------------------------------------------------------1,375,854.281,000,000.002,375,854.28941,073.331,434,780.95---------------------------------------------------------------------------TOTALS$ 3,009,496.19$ 2,000,000.00$ 5,009,496.19$ 2,019,667.68$ 2,989,828.51

Allocations include amounts approved by the Board of Visitors for 1992-93.

Research & Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts.

APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF DINING AND NUTRITION SERVICES
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the University of Virginia's Medical Center desires to contract with a vendor for the provision of dining and nutrition Services at an estimated cost of $5 million per year for a five-year period with the option to renew the contract for an additional five-year period. During this period, the vendor shall provide all nutrition, dining and related services at the University Hospital for patients, visitors, employees and others. This contract shall become effective January 1, 1993, and will replace an existing contract; andWHEREAS the University will, through a competitive process, select a firm to provide these services;RESOLVED that the University may enter into a contract with the selected firm to provide dining and nutrition services and that the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be and he is hereby authorized to execute the contract prepared by the Chief Contracting Officer and approved by the General Counsel.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR CENTRAL TELEPHONE COMPANY TO CROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement to be executed on or about November 2, 1992, between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Central Telephone Company which grants a fifteen (15) foot right-of-way to operate and maintain a telephone cable across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia located in southern Albemarle County at Fan Mountain Observatory, be and it is hereby approved.RESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be and they are hereby authorized to execute said deed of easement.

APPROVAL OF REVISED CONSERVATION EASEMENT AT FAN MOUNTAIN OBSERVATORY
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of conservation easement to be executed on or about November 2, 1992, between George A. Ragsdale and The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia which protects the University's Fan Mountain Observatory located in southern Albemarle County and which supersedes an existing conservation easement be and it is hereby approved.RESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be and they are hereby authorized to execute said deed of easement.

APPROVAL OF THE CAPITAL CAMPAIGN PLAN
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Capital Campaign Plan be and it is hereby approved.

RESOLUTION FOR AUTHORIZATION TO PARTICIPATE IN COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA 9-C BOND ISSUE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, there has been passed by the General Assembly of Virginia an act entitled "Commonwealth of Virginia Higher Educational Institutions Bond Act of 1992" (the "1992 Act") which has been signed by the Governor;WHEREAS, The definition of "Act" in this resolution shall include the 1992 Act or any other act that provides authorization for bonds to be issued in accordance with the provisions of Section 9(c) of Article X of the Constitution of Virginia.WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Treasury Board") is authorized, by and with the consent of the Governor, to sell and issue bonds of the Commonwealth of Virginia for the purpose of providing funds, with other available funds, for paying the cost of acquiring, constructing, renovating, enlarging, improving and equipping certain revenue-producing capital projects at certain institutions of higher learning of the Commonwealth and for paying issuance costs, reserve funds and other financing expenses (the "Financing Expenses"), all in accordance with the provisions of Section 9(c) of Article X of the Constitution of Virginia;WHEREAS, such revenue-producing capital projects include an expansion to the Health Sciences Center Parking Deck (Capital Outlay Project Number 14640) (the "Project") for the University of Virginia (the "Institution"), which will be a component of the Institution's parking auxiliary system (the "System"); andWHEREAS, the Treasury Board is proposing to sell and issue bonds pursuant to the Act for such revenue-producing capital projects, in one or more series;NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:Section 1. The Board of Visitors of the Institution (the "Board") requests the Treasury Board to sell and issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $1,661,500 to finance all or a portion of the cost of the Project plus Financing Expenses (the "Project Bonds"). The Project Bonds will be identified by amount and maturities by the State Treasurer upon issuance of any bonds.Section 2. The Board (a) covenants to fix, revise, charge and collect rates, fees and charges, including without limitation parking fees and other related revenues, for or in connection with the use, occupation and services of the System and (b) pledges such rates, fees and charges remaining after payment of the expenses of operating the System ("Net Revenues") to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds. The Board further covenants that it will fix, revise, charge and collect such rates, fees and charges in such amounts so that Net Revenues will at all times be sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds and on any other obligations secured by Net Revenues (such payments collectively the "Required Payments"). The Project Bonds shall be secured on a parity with such other obligations so secured by Net Revenues (other than any obligations secured by a prior right in Net Revenues). Any Net Revenues pledged herein in excess of the Required Payments may be used by the Institution for any other lawful purpose.Section 3. It is hereby found, determined and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates and advice of appropriate officials of the Institution, as shown on the Financial Feasibility Study attached hereto as Exhibit A, the anticipated Net Revenues pledged herein will be sufficient to pay the Required Payments so long as the aggregate amount of net debt service on the Project Bonds actually payable in any bond year does not exceed the amounts assumed in the Financial Feasibility Study.Section 4. The Board covenants that the Institution will furnish the Treasury Board its general purpose financial statements, within 30 days of their issuance and receipt, audited by a firm of certified public accountants or the Auditor of Public Accounts which shall include a schedule of revenues and expenditures for auxiliary enterprise systems. At the same time, the Institution will furnish the Treasury Board a certificate of the chief financial officer of the Institution stating whether Net Revenues were sufficient to pay Required Payments during the period covered by such financial statements. If Net Revenues were insufficient to pay Required Payments during such period, such certificate shall include the Institution's plan to generate Net Revenue sufficient to make Required Payments in the future.Section 5. The Board covenants that so long as any of the Project Bonds are outstanding, the Institution will pay to the State Treasurer, not less than 30 days before each interest or principal payment date, the amount certified by the State Treasurer to be due and payable on such date as principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds.Section 6. The Board covenants that the Institution will pay from time to time its proportionate share of all expenses incurred in connection with the sale and issuance of any series of bonds that includes Project Bonds (the "Bonds") and all expenses thereafter incurred in connection with the Bonds, including without limitation the expense of calculating any rebate to the United States of the earnings derived from the investment of gross proceeds of the Bonds, all as certified by the State Treasurer to the Institution.Section 7. The Board covenants that the Institution will not take or omit to take any action the taking or omission of which will cause the Bonds to be "arbitrage bonds" within the meaning of Section 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including regulations issued pursuant thereto (the "Code"), or otherwise cause interest on the Bonds to be includable in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes under existing laws. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Institution will pay from time to time its proportional share of any rebate to the United States of the earnings derived from the investment of the gross proceeds of the Bonds.Section 8. The Board covenants that the Institution will proceed with due diligence to undertake and complete the Project and that the Institution will spend all of the available proceeds derived from the sale of the Project Bonds for costs associated with the Project and appropriated for the Project by the General Assembly.Section 9. The Board covenants that the Institution will not permit the proceeds of the Project bonds to be used in any manner that would result in (a) 5% or more of such proceeds being used in a trade or business carried on by any person other than a governmental unit, as provided in Section 141(b) of the Code, (b) 5% or more of such proceeds being used with respect to any output facility within the meaning of Section 141(b)(4) of the Code, or (c) 5% or more of such proceeds being used directly or indirectly to make or finance loans to any persons other than a governmental unit, as provided in Section 141(c) of the Code. The Institution need not comply with such covenants if the Institution obtains the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that such covenants need not be complied with to prevent the interest on the Bonds from being includable in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.Section 10. The Board covenants that for so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, the Institution will not enter into any operating lease, management contract or similar agreement with any person or entity, other than a state or local governmental unit, for all or any portion of the Project without first obtaining the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that entering into such agreement will not cause the interest on the Bonds to be included in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.Section 11. The Board covenants that for so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, the Institution will not sell or dispose of all or any part of the Project without first obtaining the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that such sale or disposition will not cause interest on the Bonds to be included in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.Section 12. The officers of the Institution are authorized and directed to execute and deliver all certificates and instruments and to take all such further action as may be considered necessary or desirable in connection with the sale and issuance of the Bonds.Section 13. The Board acknowledges that the Treasury Board will rely on the representations and covenants set forth herein in issuing the Bonds, that such covenants are critical to the security for the Bonds and the exclusion of the interest on the Bonds from the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes, that the Board will not repeal, revoke, rescind or amend any of such covenants without first obtaining the written approval of the Treasury Board, and that such covenants will be binding upon the Board so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding.Section 14. This resolution shall take effect immediately.

RESOLUTION FOR AUTHORIZATION TO PARTICIPATE IN COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA 9-C BOND ISSUE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION FOR AUTHORIZATION TO PARTICIPATE IN COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA 9-C BOND ISSUE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE POLICY ON UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONS
--------------------------------------------------------

(Messrs. Mortimer M. Caplin and Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. abstained from voting.)

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, by prior resolution adopted on May 23, 1992, the Board of Visitors recognized the need to re-examine and to reinforce, where appropriate, the University policies governing University-related foundations, as currently embodied in the "Management Principles for Relationships With University-Related Foundations," the accompanying "Guidelines for University-Related Foundations," and the related standard "Foundation Agreement";WHEREAS, as the Board of Visitors so directed, the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer completed a thorough review of such policies with the assistance of appropriate University offices, prepared a revised policy that addresses the concerns and accommodates the objectives the Board set forth in its May 23, 1992 resolution, and solicited the comments of the various foundations regarding the proposed policy revisions; andWHEREAS, the Board of Visitors finds that the proposed "Policy on University-Related Foundations" is appropriately designed to ensure efficiency and accountability among, and maintain independence and integrity within, all University foundations that are established and operated for the University's benefit and that use the University's name and resources;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that, based upon the expressed and implied powers of the Board of Visitors to protect and preserve the University's interests and properties, the "Policy on University-Related Foundations," attached hereto, be and hereby is approved;NOW THEREFORE BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the President be and hereby is delegated the authority (1) to designate administrative responsibility to ensure sufficient University monitoring of the foundations' compliance with the Policy; (2) to adjust the sequence or substance of specific reporting requirements in order to minimize any undue burden on, or otherwise to accommodate the unique circumstances of, particular foundations; and (3) to prevail upon the governing boards of foundations to take prompt action to correct any abuses that adversely affect the foundations or the University;NOW THEREFORE BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the previously adopted "Management Principles for Relationships with University-Related Foundations," the "Guidelines for University-Related Foundations," and the standard "Foundation Agreement" shall be replaced by the attached "Policy on University-Related Foundations" on January 1, 1993, when such superseding Policy shall take effect.

APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION OF DARDEN BUILDING PROJECT
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the overall master site plan and the individual schematic designs for the construction of the Darden Building Project as illustrated on drawings dated September 27, 1992, by the architect of Record Ayers/Saint/Gross, Inc., and the design architect Robert A.M. Stern, Architects, and presented on drawings titled Rendered Site Plan; Sponsors Hall, Basement Floor Plan, First Floor Plan, Second Floor Plan, Third Floor Plan, Sponsors Hall South Elevation; Darden School, Ground Floor Plan, First Floor Plan, Darden School East Elevation; Darden School West Elevation; Darden School North Elevation; and Darden School South Elevation, be and they are hereby approved for further development.RESOLVED FURTHER that the individual building designs shall be presented for further review at the preliminary design level of development.

APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION OF NEWCOMB HALL EXPANSION
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the schematic design for the construction of the Newcomb Hall Expansion as illustrated on drawings dated September 15, 1992, by Ayers/Saint/Gross, Inc., and presented on drawings L.1, Landscape and Site Plan; A.1, Basement Plan; A.2, First Floor Plan; A.3, Second Floor Plan; A.4, Third Floor Plan; A.5, Fourth Floor Plan; A.6, Fifth Floor Plan; A.7, West and South Elevations; A.7, Building Sections; and A.8, Proposed Perspective Southwest View, be and it is hereby approved for further development.RESOLVED FURTHER that the project design shall be presented for further review at the preliminary design level of development.

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF NOT EXCEEDING $65,000,000 THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA REFUNDING BONDS AND DELEGATING TO THE FINANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS THE POWER TO TAKE CERTAIN ACTIONS WITH RESPECT THERETO
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, by Chapter 9, Title 23, Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended, there is created a corporation under the name and style of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University"), which University is governed by a Board of Visitors (the "Board"); andWHEREAS, by Chapter 3, Title 23, Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the "Act"), the University is classified as an educational institution, is declared to be a public body and is constituted a governmental instrumentality for the dissemination of education; andWHEREAS, by virtue of the Act, the University, with the consent and approval of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia and the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, is authorized and empowered(a) to build, construct, reconstruct, erect, extend, better, equip and improve any building, facility, addition, extension or improvement of a capital nature required by or convenient for the purposes of the University, including, without limitation, administration, teaching, lecture and exhibition halls, libraries, dormitories, student apartments, faculty dwellings, dining halls, cafeterias, snack bars, laundries, hospitals, laboratories, research centers, infirmaries, field houses, gymnasiums, auditoriums, student unions, recreation centers, stadiums, athletic facilities, garages, parking facilities, warehouses and storage buildings, book and student supplies centers and all buildings, land and any other appurtenances and equipment necessary or desirable in connection therewith or incidental thereto;(b) to borrow money and make, issue and sell bonds of the University for any of such purposes, such bonds to be issued and sold through the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Treasury Board") and to be payable only from any one or more of the revenue sources provided therefor in the Act and pledged for their payment, including without limitation moneys appropriated from both general and nongeneral revenues of the Commonwealth; and(c) to fix and revise from time to time and to charge and collect fees, rents and charges for or in connection with the use, occupation or services of projects financed and any existing facilities at the University; and to pledge the same to payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds; andWHEREAS, under date of November 1, 1984, the University issued revenue bonds in two series in the original aggregated principal amount of $150,000,000 (together the "1984 Bonds") for the purpose of providing funds to finance a portion of the cost of constructing and equipping a hospital to replace the then existing University of Virginia Hospital, renovating the existing hospital, constructing additional parking facilities and enlarging, improving and expanding the power plant and other portions of the existing hospital (collectively, the "Project"); andWHEREAS, the University subsequently has restructured the indebtedness represented by the 1984 Bonds by the issuance of its Hospital Revenue Refunding Bonds consisting of (a) Series C Bonds issued in June, 1985 in the original aggregate principal amount of $95,386,796, (b) Series D Bonds issued in September, 1985 in the original aggregate principal amount of $37,200,000, and (c) Series E Bonds issued in July, 1989 in the original aggregate principal amount of $68,290,000; andWHEREAS, the Board has determined to provide for the issuance of additional bonds of the University for the purpose of refunding all or a portion of the outstanding Series C, D and E Bonds; andWHEREAS, it may be in the interest of the University to use certain remaining bond proceeds to defease all or a portion of the Series C, D and E Bonds; andWHEREAS, there have been presented to the Board by officers of the University alternate plans of finance for providing funds to refund or defease a portion of the outstanding Series C, D and E Bonds and documents related thereto, all of which have been filed in the records of the Board;NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:1. AUTHORIZATION OF BONDS. The Board authorizes, pursuant to the Act, the issuance, execution and sale of bonds of the University (the "Refunding Bonds") to finance, together with other available funds, the costs of refunding all or part of the outstanding Series C, D and E Bonds (including the funding of interest, reserves and costs of issuance) and, pursuant to Section 23-19 of the Act, provides that the terms and conditions of the Refunding Bonds shall be specified by the Finance Committee of the Board (the "Finance Committee"), subject to the following limitations:(a) Maximum principal amount: $65,000,000.(b) Maturity: on any date not later than July 1, 2017.(c) Interest Rate: Any fixed or variable rate not to exceed 15% per annum (other than Refunding Bonds held by a bank pursuant to any credit facility agreement in which case the Refunding Bonds may bear interest at the prime rate fixed by such bank or a related institution plus up to 2% per annum).(d) Number of series: One or more not to exceed four.(e) Date of Refunding Bonds: Any date not later than April 1, 1993.(f) Interest payment dates: On any date not more frequently than daily.(g) Denominations: Any multiple of $1,000.(h) Form of Refunding Bonds: Registered.(i) Execution: Medium and Place of Payment: As approved by the Finance Committee consistent with the laws of the Commonwealth.(j) Redemption: On any date approved by the Finance Committee with a premium not to exceed 4%.(k) Sale Price: At least par minus (1) a bond discount to underwriters not to exceed 2 1/2% and (2) if deemed advisable in connection with the marketing of the Refunding Bonds, a discount to investors in an amount to be determined by the Finance Committee.(l) Amount of bond proceeds used to purchase bond insurance, letter of credit and other credit enhancements: Not more than 4% of original principal amount of Refunding Bonds.(m) Security: The Refunding Bonds may be secured in any manner permitted by the Act as may be determined by the Finance Committee including, without limitation, (i) a pledge of the Net Revenues as defined in the Master Resolution adopted by the Finance Committee on November 30, 1984, in connection with the issuance of the 1984 Bonds, and (ii) a pledge of any and all additional revenues of any type that may be pledged by the University pursuant to Section 23-19 of the Act, including moneys appropriated to the University from the general or from nongeneral funds of the Commonwealth.2. AUTHORIZATION OF RESOLUTIONS. The Board authorizes the Finance Committee (a) to adopt one or more appropriate series resolutions consistent with the terms and conditions set forth in Paragraph 1 above, (b) to apply such portion of the remaining bond proceeds to the defeasance of the Series C, D and E Bonds as determined by the Finance Committee, and (c) to execute and deliver such other documents, including reimbursement agreements with one or more foreign or domestic banking institutions, agreements with one or more bond insurers, related interest rate swap agreements and an escrow deposit agreement with Signet Trust Company or other escrow agent and the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and take such action as may be necessary or desirable in connection with the issuance and sale of the Refunding Bonds and the defeasance of all or a portion of the Series C, D and E Bonds.3. AUTHORIZATION TO OFFICERS. The Board authorizes all officers and employees of the University to take all action necessary or desirable in connection with the issuance or sale of the Refunding Bonds as may be approved by The Rector, the President, the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Assistant Vice President for Finance.

AUTHORIZATION TO EFFECT CAPITAL ADVANCES TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA REAL ESTATE FOUNDATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation intends to respond to the Office of Personnel Management's Request for Proposal dated August 7, 1992, to construct, lease and operate a training facility on the Foundation's research park; andWHEREAS, a commitment to provide financing is required as part of this proposal; andWHEREAS, the Board of the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation has requested that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia provide such a commitment from its endowment funds;BE IT RESOLVED that the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia approves and hereby authorizes the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to effect capital advances to the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation in an amount not to exceed thirteen million dollars ($13,000,000.00) for a period of fifteen (15) years for use by the Foundation consistent with the purpose as state herein. The interest rate on such loan shall be equal to the interest rate established by the Finance Committee in its Executive Session on October 8, 1992.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period May 1, 1992, through August 31, 1992, as presented by the Director of Audits, be and it is hereby approved by the Audit Committee.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported on gifts, grants and contracts. The report was accepted by the Board.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 2:15 p.m.

AGG:jb

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

absent

Daniel A. Hoffler

absent

for a portion of the meeting

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

absent

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

absent

Albert H. Small

absent

J. Scott Ballenger

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on October 8, 1992 a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE (yes or no)COMMENTSW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.yesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesMortimer M. CaplinyesN. Thomas ConnallyyesHovey S. DabneyyesWarner N. DalhouseabsentDaniel A. Hofflerabsentfor a portion of the meetingJ. Thomas HulveyyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. KlugeabsentArnold H. LeonyesLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.yesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr.yesS. Buford ScottabsentAlbert H. SmallabsentJ. Scott Ballengeryes

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: October 8, 1992

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 12

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 1

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 4

INVESTMENT GUIDELINES FOR THE CURRENT FUNDS PORTFOLIO
-----------------------------------------------------

Earnings from Current Funds' investments provide an important source of unrestricted revenue for the University. Funding for this program includes cash balances in the loan, endowment, plant and University restricted and unrestricted current funds beyond those required to meet the daily cash needs of the University.

Investment Objectives

The primary investment objective of the fund is to maximize investment income consistent with the need for safety of principal and liquidity. A secondary objective is to realize incremental income or principal appreciation, consistent with the primary objective, through active management of the portfolio. A target total return for the portfolio is to generate a return in excess of a composite index consisting of 60 percent of the 91-Day T-Bill index and 40 percent of the Merrill Lynch 1-3 year government/treasury index over rolling one-year periods.

Investment Philosophy

Portfolio management and trading will be used to achieve the objectives. Strict quality standards have been established to minimize credit risk. In order to protect against or capitalize on sharp fluctuations in interest rates, trading may be substantial at times. Although there are no maturity restrictions, emphasis will be placed on short-term, highly marketable securities to insure adequate liquidity.

Investment Policies

1\. No maturity restrictions.

2\. The funds may be invested in the following instruments:

a. Savings accounts approved for Commonwealth of Virginia deposits.

b. Repurchase agreements, collateralized by U.S. treasury or agency securities.

c. Certificates of Deposit and Bank Deposit Notes issued by any of the following Virginia banks:

NationsBank of Virginia, N.A.

Jefferson National Bank

Crestar Bank

Central Fidelity Bank

Signet Bank

Dominion Bank, N.A. or any Virginia bank rated A, A/B, or B by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Bank Watch Bank/Thrift Ratings. No more than 10% of the portfolio shall be invested in CD's issued by any single bank.

d. Commercial paper issued by domestic corporations having a credit rating of A1 by Standard and Poor's and P1 by Moody's. Dollar denominated commercial paper issued by foreign issuers with a rating of A1 by Standard and Poor's and P1 by Moody's. No more than 10% of the portfolio shall be invested in the commercial paper of any single issuer.

e. U.S. Treasury Notes and Bonds

f. Obligations of any agency or instrumentality of the United States to include:

1\. Federal Home Loan Bank

2\. Federal Farm Credit Bank

3\. Federal National Mortgage Corporation

4\. Government National Mortgage Association

5\. Federal Home Loan Mortgage Association

6\. Student Loan Marketing Association

7\. Tennessee Valley Authority

8\. World Bank

9\. Mortgage-Backed Securities issued by either FHLMC or FNMA provided the duration and liquidity are consistent with portfolio objectives.

Each agency will be limited to 10% of the portfolio.

g. Corporate notes and bonds rated A or better by S&P or Moody's.

h. Bankers' Acceptances issued by any domestic bank rated B/C or better by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. Bankers' Acceptances issued by international banks with a bank rating of B/C or better and a country rating of I.

i. Fully hedged obligations of sovereign governments with an Aaa rating by Moody's Investor Services and AAA by Standard & Poor's Corporation.

j. Short-term money market funds to include:

Fiduciary Trust Company International

Franklin Money Fund

Dreyfus Money Market

Delaware Cash Reserves, Inc.

Common Fund for Short Term Investments or any other money market fund, which invests exclusively in securities approved for current funds investments.

k. Common Fund for Bond Investments

l. Common Fund Intermediate Cash Fund

m. Municipal bonds, either general obligation or revenue, rated AA or better.

n. Subject to the approval of the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer internal loans to University Departments and Activities to be repaid from operating and capital funds budgeted for this purpose. No more than a total of $10 million shall be invested in internal loans at any one time.

Custody

All securities will remain in the custody of the University of Virginia or its custodian bank.

Attachment = Policy on University-Related FoundationsPOLICY ON UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONSTable of Contents
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Page

I.

Purpose of the Policy

1

II.

Establishment and Organization of Foundations

3

III.

University Resources and Services

6

IV.

Foundation Relationship with the University

8

V.

Management and Operation of Foundations

10

VI.

Financial Transactions and Accounting Practices

15

VII.

Reporting Requirements

19

VIII.

Annual Certification Letter

21

Table of ContentsPageI.Purpose of the Policy1II.Establishment and Organization of Foundations3III.University Resources and Services6IV.Foundation Relationship with the University8V.Management and Operation of Foundations10VI.Financial Transactions and Accounting Practices15VII.Reporting Requirements19VIII.Annual Certification Letter21

POLICY ON UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONS
----------------------------------------

I. Purpose of the Policy

A. Affiliated foundations exist because of, and for, the public institutions they support and whose names they share. Looking beyond their separate corporate identities, the foundations can be depositories of substantial funds charitably donated for the benefit of public higher education institutions and their related activities. Their assets exist essentially because of public tax policy and publicly spirited donations. As a consequence, fiduciary obligations are impressed by law on the management of such funds.1 1This policy statement is drawn from the "Prologue" of the Attorney General's Memorandum dated May 20, 1983, to the Presidents of Virginia's Public Universities and Colleges. The Attorney General's Memorandum contains a comprehensive assessment of affiliated foundations, as well as recommendations regarding institutional oversight and foundation accountability. These fiduciary obligations fall primarily on the officers and directors of the foundation.

This policy statement is drawn from the "Prologue" of the Attorney General's Memorandum dated May 20, 1983, to the Presidents of Virginia's Public Universities and Colleges. The Attorney General's Memorandum contains a comprehensive assessment of affiliated foundations, as well as recommendations regarding institutional oversight and foundation accountability.

B. The University of Virginia has a vital interest in, and recognizes the value of, University-related foundations that are established and operated to solicit funds in the University's name, to manage and invest gifts and property for the University's benefit, and/or to promote or sponsor programs in support of the University's activities.

C. The Board of Visitors is committed to providing quality support for the fundraising efforts of each University-related foundation, and to that end seeks to promote efficiency and coordination among, as well as maintain independence and integrity within, all University-related foundations.

D. To protect the University's interests, and as a condition of the foundations' use of the University's name and resources, it is the policy of the Board of Visitors that University-related foundations shall be:

(1) established and organized solely for the University's benefit;

(2) operated in accordance with generally accepted business and accountability principles; and

(3) managed in a manner consistent with the foundations' own enabling documents and the University's purpose, mission, and procedures, as specifically set forth in this Policy.

II. Establishment and Organization of Foundations

A. A University-related foundation2 2All references in this Policy of the Board of Visitors shall include subsidiaries and affiliates of University-related foundations as well as the foundations themselves. ("Foundation") is an organization that is created and operated exclusively to benefit the University or one or more of the University's units.3 3The term "unit" as used throughout this Policy encompasses schools, departments, and other components of the University. A Foundation as defined for purposes of this Policy is one which uses the University's name, consumes University resources, occupies University space, or enters into transactions with the University which require the concurrence of the University. A Foundation has as its purpose one or more of the following:

All references in this Policy of the Board of Visitors shall include subsidiaries and affiliates of University-related foundations as well as the foundations themselves.

The term "unit" as used throughout this Policy encompasses schools, departments, and other components of the University.

(1) to facilitate fundraising programs and contributions from private sources for the benefit of the University or one or more of its units;

(2) to manage and invest private gifts and/or property for the benefit of the University or one or more of its units; or

(3) to promote, sponsor, and complement educational, scientific, research, charitable, health care related, or cultural activities for the benefit of the University or one or more of its units.

B. Foundations may be created only with the approval of the Board of Visitors after a review of the purpose of the Foundation, its proposed organizational format, and the scope of its activities.4 4Applicable only to Foundations created on or after October 6, 1989 (the date when the board of Visitors adopted the original Policy on University-related Foundations). All other provisions are applicable to Foundations whenever created.

Applicable only to Foundations created on or after October 6, 1989 (the date when the board of Visitors adopted the original Policy on University-related Foundations). All other provisions are applicable to Foundations whenever created.

C. Established Foundations shall submit to the Board of Visitors for approval any proposed new business venture or change in nature, purpose, or scope of Foundation activities that is substantial in nature, and outside the normal function of the Foundation. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. New business ventures are considered to be any significant change from current business activities; e.g., a Foundation which has been engaged primarily in fundraising proposes to purchase and lease commercial office space.

D. A Foundation shall be organized and operated as a Virginia non-profit, non-stock corporation or association that is legally separate from the University. It shall obtain and maintain status as a tax-exempt, charitable organization under State and Federal income tax laws so contributions and bequests to it will be deductible charitable contributions as provided by Federal income tax law.

E. Each Foundation's enabling documents shall include a clause requiring that in the event of its dissolution the Foundation's assets shall be distributed in the best interest of the University and, if applicable to the unit within the University that the Foundation was created to support.

F. Two University representatives, one designated by the Board of Visitors and one designated by the University President, shall serve as ex officio voting members of the Foundation's governing board. One or both of the representatives shall serve on any executive or similar committee empowered to act for the governing board of each Foundation. This responsibility may not be delegated. Efforts will be made to preserve the makeup of the Foundation's governing board with respect to the University appointments.

G. The Foundation will establish an audit committee to report to the Foundation's governing board. The audit committee shall include one or both of the University designated representatives.

III. University Resources and Services

A. The University, upon the Foundation's request, shall make available administrative services5 5Alternatively, a specific entity with sufficient staff capabilities may be designated by the University to provide these central support services to the Foundation. to aid the Foundation in its management and operation. These services include:

Alternatively, a specific entity with sufficient staff capabilities may be designated by the University to provide these central support services to the Foundation.

(1) access to the University's financial systems to receive, disburse, and account for funds held. With respect to transactions processed through the University's financial system, the Foundation shall comply with the University's Financial and Administrative Policies and Procedures Manuals;

(2) accounting services to include: monthly cash disbursements and receipts, accounts receivable and payable, bank reconciliation, monthly reporting and analysis, auditing, payroll, and budgeting;

(3) investment, management, insurance, benefits administration, and similar services;

(4) central University services such as dining services, printing services, parking and transportation, and facilities management;

(5) training programs including instructional information on procurement and purchasing practices; and

(6) development services encompassing research, information systems, communications and special events.

B. The Foundation is eligible to use the University's facilities, subject to availability and applicable policies.6 6If University space is assigned to the Foundation by the appropriate Dean (or other designated building space coordinator), the description of such space and any special conditions applicable to its use shall be communicated to the University Space Administrator by the appropriate Dean or designee.

If University space is assigned to the Foundation by the appropriate Dean (or other designated building space coordinator), the description of such space and any special conditions applicable to its use shall be communicated to the University Space Administrator by the appropriate Dean or designee.

C. Foundation personnel shall be accorded privileges generally available to University employees (e.g., use of recreational facilities, eligibility for season pass purchase at the Birdwood Golf Course, and access to the University Child Care Center except that eligibility will be at the Priority 3 level. The applicable fees may be higher than the University staff rates in instances where the particular fee is subsidized by the University for its staff.

IV. Foundation Relationship with the University

A. The University and the Foundation acknowledge that each is an independent entity and agree neither will be liable, nor will be held out by the other as liable, for any of the other's contracts, torts, or other acts or omissions, or those of the other's trustees, directors, officers, members, staff or activity participants.7 7The Foundation's disclaimer in this regard similarly applies to the Commonwealth of Virginia, i.e., the Commonwealth will not be liable for any Foundation acts or omissions.

The Foundation's disclaimer in this regard similarly applies to the Commonwealth of Virginia, i.e., the Commonwealth will not be liable for any Foundation acts or omissions.

B. Transactions between the University and a related Foundation shall meet the normal tests for ordinary business transactions, including proper documentation and approvals. Special attention shall be given to avoiding direct or indirect conflicts of interest between the University and the related Foundation and those with whom the Foundation does business.

C. The Foundation shall not offer a post-secondary course, seminar, workshop or similar instruction, whether or not for credit, using the name of the University or any of its school or departments, unless given prior approval by the University President or his/her designee. Any Foundation publicity concerning such a course or similar program shall make clear that it is not being offered by the University or any of its academic departments.

D. All correspondence, solicitations, activities and advertisements concerning the Foundation shall be clearly discernible as being from the Foundation and not the University.

E. The University is entitled to recover its costs incurred for personnel, use of facilities, or other services provided to the Foundation; and the Foundation likewise is entitled to recover its costs incurred for personnel, use of facilities, or other services provided to the University.

V. Management and Operation of Foundations

A. The Foundation shall adopt guidelines governing fundraising activities that conform with the following objectives:

(1) plan and conduct all fundraising activities in close cooperation with the Office of University Development, to ensure proper coordination, including participating in the University-wide development computer system, provided the computer system meets the needs of the Foundation;

(2) ensure that funds or gifts payable to The Rector and Visitors or to any University entity shall be deposited with or transferred to the University;8 8The Foundation's solicitation literature shall make it clear when gifts are to be made payable to the Foundation. Each Foundation shall develop a procedure to document when gifts intended for the Foundation are erroneously made payable to a University entity other than a Foundation, and when such documentation is possible, an exchange check may be issued by the University to the Foundation. and

The Foundation's solicitation literature shall make it clear when gifts are to be made payable to the Foundation. Each Foundation shall develop a procedure to document when gifts intended for the Foundation are erroneously made payable to a University entity other than a Foundation, and when such documentation is possible, an exchange check may be issued by the University to the Foundation.

(3) advise donors that any restrictive terms and conditions attached to gifts for the benefit of the Rector and Visitors of the University are subject to University approval.

B. The Foundation shall adopt the following guidelines governing the appointment, compensation and retention of Foundation personnel:

(1) Non-discrimination: The Foundation shall not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, disability, sex, age, political affiliation, citizenship, status as disabled veteran, or veteran of the Vietnam era. Notwithstanding these requirements, the Foundation's program that exists primarily for the disbursement of funds to members of a minority class, such as scholarship funds, may restrict eligibility on that basis to the extent authorized by law. In determining cases of discrimination it is not sufficient to look merely to the articles of incorporation or by-laws of the Foundation; its actual practices and operations also are relevant.

(2) Appointment and retention: The appointment and re-appointment of the Foundation executive director or chief operating officer ("Foundation executive") shall be subject to approval of the Foundation board. Prior to approval, the Foundation board shall confer with the University President regarding the appointment and re-appointment. The appointment (and re-appointment) letter shall expressly stipulate that the Foundation executive's employment is subject to termination for cause, prior to completion of the stipulated appointment term for failure or refusal to comply with Foundation policies or to act in consonance with University standards.

(3) Compensation: The Foundation board shall set compensation standards, including salary ranges and fringe benefits, for all staff including the Foundation executive.9 9Where feasible, compensation standards, with specified minimum and maximum pay ranges, should be comparable to University and other related Foundation positions entailing similar responsibilities. At least annually the governing board shall approve the salary of all Foundation staff, and confirm this action in the minutes of the board meeting. Compensation plans for Foundation staff which set a defined rate or percentage payment may be submitted for approval annually in lieu of specific dollar amounts.

Where feasible, compensation standards, with specified minimum and maximum pay ranges, should be comparable to University and other related Foundation positions entailing similar responsibilities.

C. The Foundation shall adopt and observe the following guidelines governing the investment and disbursement of Foundation funds and assets:

(1) Any transfer of endowments or other assets by the University to the Foundation, or by the Foundation to the University, for management or investment shall be formalized in a memorandum of agreement so the fiduciary requirements of the respective governing boards are complied with and to assure, among other things, that any restrictions governing the future disposition of funds are observed.

(2) The University obtain written approval from the governing board of the Foundation, the University's Board of Visitors and the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in order to borrow funds from the Foundation.

(3) The Foundation shall notify the President or his/her designee, at the earliest possible date, of any proposed purchase of real estate and any material debt to be incurred for permanent or working capital, and coordinate its efforts with those of the University and other Foundations.

D. The Foundation shall adopt and observe the following guidelines governing its purchasing and procurement of goods and services.

(1) Even though not required to comply with the Virginia Public Procurement Act, the Foundation may deem it advisable and appropriate to employ competitive practices in procuring goods and services. An effort also should be made to utilize minority vendors whenever possible.

(2) The Foundation shall not purchase goods and services on behalf of any University unit with the expectation of reimbursement from that unit, because such a transaction would conflict with the Virginia Public Procurement Act. Goods and services may be purchased by the Foundation as a gift for the University subject to the normal review and approval for gift acceptance.

VI. Financial Transactions and Accounting Practices

A. The Foundation shall have in place an accounting system to assure financial activities are carried out and reported in accordance with generally accepted business and accounting practices. If the Foundation has limited staff capability to satisfy this requirement, the University or a designated entity may provide accounting services as described in Section III.

B. The Foundation shall adopt a detailed annual operating budget and capital expenditure plan with the approval of the governing board. Financial commitments and expenditures by the Foundation shall be in accordance with the approved budget and capital plan.

C. The Foundation shall have an annual audit conducted by an independent certified public accountant. The audit firm or client partner and managers shall be rotated at least every seven (7) years. The Foundation's governing board shall also require that the scope of the external audit be expanded to include compliance testing of the required policies and procedures in this document, including but not limited to general accounting, fund raising and gift accounting, investment, and University and Foundation employee compensation policies and procedures.

D. Officers and staff members of the Foundation shall be bonded as appropriate in amounts to be determined by the Foundation's governing board. General liability insurance and directors' and officers' liability indemnification10 10See 13.1-870.1. of the Virginia Code which limits liability of directors and officers of Virginia non-profit, non-stock corporations. also shall be obtained in amounts determined by the governing board to be reasonable and appropriate.

See 13.1-870.1. of the Virginia Code which limits liability of directors and officers of Virginia non-profit, non-stock corporations.

E. With the Foundation governing board's approval, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, the President or his/her designee may inspect and audit the Foundation's books and records at reasonable times.

F. In accordance with Internal Revenue Service regulations governing tax exempt organizations, no substantial part of the activities of the Foundation shall consist of carrying on propaganda, or otherwise attempting to influence legislation, or participating or intervening in any political campaign on behalf of any candidate for public office.

G. No salaries, consulting fees, loans, or perquisites shall be paid to a University employee or to a Foundation trustee by the Foundation without the prior written approval of the University President or his/her designee. Compensation plans for University employees which set a defined rate or percentage payment may be submitted for approval annually in lieu of specific dollar amounts.

H. Business transactions involving the Foundation and the personal or business affairs of a trustee, director, officer, or staff member shall be approved in advance by the governing board. In addition, trustees, directors, officers, and staff members of the Foundation shall disqualify themselves from making, participating in making, or in any way attempting to use their official positions to influence a decision in which they have or would have a financial interest.

I. No director, trustee, officer, or staff member of the Foundation shall accept from any source any gift or gratuity that is offered, or reasonably appears to be offered, because of the position held with the Foundation by the individual, nor shall an offer of a gift or gratuity be extended by such an individual on a similar basis.11 11A gift or gratuity means any payment to the extent that consideration of equal or greater value is not received. It does not include informational material, such as books, reports, calendars, or other unsolicited promotional material. A gift does not include modest entertainment, such as a meal or refreshments in connection with meetings, conferences, or public ceremonies, or home hospitality. This provision applies to the individual and does not apply to gifts offered to or by a Foundation as an organization.

A gift or gratuity means any payment to the extent that consideration of equal or greater value is not received. It does not include informational material, such as books, reports, calendars, or other unsolicited promotional material. A gift does not include modest entertainment, such as a meal or refreshments in connection with meetings, conferences, or public ceremonies, or home hospitality.

VII. Reporting Requirements

A. On an annual basis, the Foundation shall submit to the President a copy of its financial report and tax return, audited by an independent certified public accountant, the management letter, and management's response thereto.12 12Foundation documents submitted in compliance with reporting requirements stipulated in this section and in compliance with the Annual Certification Letter in Section VIII will be reviewed and retained as Presidential "Working Papers." Confirmation that a meeting has been held between the Foundation audit committee (or similarly designated committee) and its external auditor is a required element of the Certification Letter (see Section VIII).

Foundation documents submitted in compliance with reporting requirements stipulated in this section and in compliance with the Annual Certification Letter in Section VIII will be reviewed and retained as Presidential "Working Papers."

B. The Foundation shall provide to the President prior to the beginning of the new Foundation fiscal year, an annual budget and capital expenditure plan approved by the Foundation governing board. The budget should be presented in a comparative format with the prior year and include major categories of revenues and expenses.

C. The Foundation shall report annually to the President each real estate purchase or material capital lease, investment, or financing arrangement entered into during the preceding Foundation fiscal year. Notice also should be provided periodically of any potential and actual litigation involving the Foundation during its fiscal year.

D. The Foundation shall report on a mutually agreed upon schedule to the President regarding its financial position and capital expenditures, with special emphasis on transactions between the Foundation and the University or its units as well as transactions affecting Foundation employees and/or trustees. This report may be made in regularly scheduled review sessions between Foundation administrators and the President's designee.

E. The Foundation shall provide the President with an advance copy of any amendments, additions or deletions to its articles of incorporation or by-laws.

F. The Foundation shall provide to the President all minutes of regular and executive session meetings of its governing board.

VIII. Annual Certification Letter

A. On an annual basis, the executive director of each Foundation shall submit to the Board of Visitors and to the President a letter which certifies compliance with the following requirements:

(1) Copies of this Policy have been circulated among all members of the Foundation staff and its governing board.

(2) Compensation of any kind which the Foundation has provided to any University employees has been approved by the President or his/her designee prior to payment. A listing of total payments to specific individuals should be attached to the certification letter.

(3) An audit by an independent certified public accountant has been completed, and the audit committee of the Foundation has met and reviewed the management letter and response with that auditor.

(4) The annual budget of the Foundation has been approved by the Foundation governing board and has been provided to the President or his/her designee.

(5) Written approval has been obtained for any funds the University has borrowed from the Foundation.

(6) Written approval has been obtained from the Board of Visitors and the President for any substantial proposed business ventures or changes in the nature, scope, or purpose of the Foundation.

(7) Other specific requirements as mutually agreed upon by the Foundation governing board and the President or his/her designee.

September 17, 1992