 TEI to HTML

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS April 7-8, 1995
------------------------------------------------------------

Election of New Members to the Executive Committee of the Board

Appointments to Board Committees

Faculty Personnel Actions:

Elections to Faculty

Election of Chairholders

Changes of Title of Chairholders

Special Salary Action of Chairholder

Retirements of Chairholders

Appointment of Chairholder

Promotions

Changes of Title

Special Salary Actions

Resignations

Retirements

Appointment

Re-Appointments

Election of Professors Emeriti

Election of Associate Professor Emeritus

Deaths

Change in Retirement of Mr. William A. Little

Change in the Election to Professor Emeritus of Mr. William A. Little

Change in the Special Salary Action of Mr. Ian W. Lord

Memorial Resolution for James Sloan Kuykendall, Jr.

Memorial Resolution for Albertis Sydney Harrison, Jr.

Memorial Resolution for Lawrence Lewis, Jr.

Resolution of Commendation to Allison Sims Linney

Establishment of the Louise Nerancy Professorship in Neurology

Establishment of the Evelyn Troup Hobson Professorship in Health Evaluation Sciences

Establishment of the William Hobson Professorship in Information Sciences

Establishment of the William L. Matheson and Robert M. Morgenthau Research Professorship in Law

Establishment of the Class of 1941 Research Professorship in Law

Establishment of the Nicholas E. Chimicles Research Professorship in Business Law and Regulation

Approval of Change in the Name of Professorship

Approval of the Preliminary Design for the Construction of the Clinch Valley College Wyllie Library Addition and Renovation Project

Approval of the Revised Preliminary Design for the Construction of the Newcomb Hall Expansion Project

Approval of Articles of Incorporation, Corporate By-Laws, and Board of Directors for Health Partners, The Joint Venture Corporation between the University of Virginia Medical Center and the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation

Approval of Increase in Tuition and Required Fees and Other Charges for the Academic Division

Approval of Proposed Increase in Tuition and Required Fees and Other Charges for Clinch Valley College

Approval of Allocation of Required Fees for 1995-96

Approval of Proposed Contract Rates for Dining Services for 1995-96 for the Academic Division and Clinch Valley College

Approval of Proposed Increase in Faculty and Staff Housing Rates for 1995-96 for the Academic Division and Clinch Valley College

Approval of Increase in Student Housing Rates for 1995-96 for Clinch Valley College

Approval to Offer a University Self-Insured Health Care Plan to Full-Time Salaried Faculty and Classified Employees

Approval of Authorization for the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to Execute a Contract for Procurement of Telephone Services

Approval of Summary of Audit Reports

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA April 7-8, 1995
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 8:45 a.m., on Friday, April 7, 1995, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Warner N. Dalhouse, T. Keister Greer, Arnold H. Leon, Ms. Allison S. Linney, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, and Albert H. Small. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 12:15 p.m., on Saturday, April 8, 1995, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Warner N. Dalhouse, T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, Ms. Allison S. Linney, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, and Albert H. Small. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, L. Jay Lemons and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of February 4, 1995, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

INTRODUCTION OF NEW BOARD MEMBERS
---------------------------------

The Rector introduced the four new members of the Board: Mr. John P. Ackerly, III, Mr. T. Keister Greer, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, and Mr. Matthew W. Cooper, the student member-elect.

APPRECIATION TO THE RETIRING MEMBERS OF THE BOARD
-------------------------------------------------

The Rector expressed appreciation for the terms of the retiring members of the Board, Mr. W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Dr. N. Thomas Connally, and Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, who have served the University with great devotion and distinction.

ELECTION TO FILL VACANCIES ON THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------------------

In accordance with the relevant provisions of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1991, and in compliance with the Code of Virginia, Section 23-75, Dr. Charles M. Caravati, Jr., and Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie were elected to serve on the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors until the Annual Meeting in June 1995.

APPROVAL OF MEETING DATES FOR 1996
----------------------------------

Friday and Saturday, February 9 and 10, 1996

Charlottesville

Friday and Saturday, April 12 and 13, 1996

Charlottesville

Friday and Saturday June 14 and 15, 1996

Charlottesville

Friday and Saturday November 8 and 9, 1996

Charlottesville

The President proposed the adoption of the following resolution: RESOLVED that the following dates for the 1996 meetings of the Board are approved: Friday and Saturday, February 9 and 10, 1996CharlottesvilleFriday and Saturday, April 12 and 13, 1996CharlottesvilleFriday and Saturday June 14 and 15, 1996CharlottesvilleFriday and Saturday November 8 and 9, 1996Charlottesville

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEFINANCE COMMITTEEBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEEEXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the Standing Committees to serve until the Annual Meeting in June 1995. The Committee assignments are as follows: HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEECharles M. Caravati, Jr., ChairJohn P. Ackerly, IIIMortimer M. CaplinT. Keister GreerEvans B. JesseeElizabeth D. MorieAlbert H. Small FINANCE COMMITTEERobert G. Butcher, Jr., ChairFranklin K. BirckheadMortimer M. CaplinWarner N. DalhouseArnold H. LeonC. Wilson McNeely, IIIElizabeth A. Twohy BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEElizabeth D. MorieMatthew W. CooperDaniel A. HofflerElsie Goodwyn HollandEvans B. JesseeAlbert H. Small STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEC. Wilson McNeely, III, ChairFranklin K. BirckheadRobert G. Butcher, Jr.Matthew W. CooperDaniel A. HofflerElsie Goodwyn HollandElizabeth A. Twohy EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEMortimer M. Caplin, ChairJohn P. Ackerly, IIICharles M. Caravati, Jr.Matthew W. CooperT. Keister GreerDaniel A. HofflerElsie Goodwyn Holland AUDIT COMMITTEEAlbert H. Small, ChairFranklin K. BirckheadArnold H. LeonElizabeth D. Morie EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEEArnold H. Leon, ChairJohn P. Ackerly, IIICharles M. Caravati, Jr.Warner N. DalhouseT. Keister GreerElizabeth A. Twohy

The Rector, Mr. Hovey S. Dabney, is an ex officio member of all Committees.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all voting Visitors present: (a) That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending and potential litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 a. (7) of The Code of Virginia.(b) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and considering reports and recommendations of the University Auditor related to the recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, including the Newcomb Hall Director's Office, the Computer Technology Center's Disposal of Surplus Property, the Parking and Transportation Computer System, the Dining Services Contract Administration, the Follow-up on the University Development Office and Clinch Valley College, including the Clinch Valley College Bookstore, and the Pathology Department, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 a. (1) of The Code of Virginia.(c) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia; as provided for in Section 2.1-344 a. (1) of The Code of Virginia.(d) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing contractual transactions and related negotiations involving the University's telecommunication systems, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 a. (8) of The Code of Virginia.(e) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing contractual transactions and investment initiatives involving the Health Sciences Center, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 a. (6) and (8) of The Code of Virginia.

Following Committee meetings and a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session of the full Board resumed at 12:15 p.m., on Saturday, April 8, 1995.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSElections
----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. Victor C. Baum as Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, effective January 1, 1995.Mr. David Camerini as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective January 1, 1995.Dr. Victoria Camerini as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective February 1, 1995.Ms. Sarah C. Cargile as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one semester, effective January 16, 1995.Dr. David B. Drake as Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for three years, effective January 1, 1995.Mr. Hong Liu as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective March 1, 1995.Mr. Matthew Neurock as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, for the period January 16, 1995 through January 15, 1998.Ms. Lisa A. Palmer as Assistant Professor of Research in Anesthesiology, for three years, effective January 9, 1995.Dr. E. Franklin Pence, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Dr. Ellsworth Jack Remson, III as Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, for the period March 1, 1995 through August 31, 1995.Ms. Heidi Scrable as Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, for three years, effective January 1, 1995.Ms. Rene L. Todd as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period January 9, 1995 through July 8, 1995.Mr. George A. Tsihrintzis as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for the period January 1, 1995 through January 15, 1998.

Actions Relating to Chairholders
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of Chairholder(s)Mr. David W. Breneman as University Professor and Professor of Education (without term), effective July 1, 1995.Dr. Eugene C. Corbett, Jr. as Harrison Medical Teaching Associate Professor of Generalist Medicine, for the period September 1, 1994 through June 30, 1997.Mr. Robert J. Kadner as Norman J. Knorr Professor in the School of Medicine, effective December 1, 1994.Mr. James A. Marshall as Thomas Jefferson Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1995.Dr. Steven A. Meixel as Harrison Medical Teaching Professor of Generalist Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Ben H. Nunnally, Jr. as Morris Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1995.(b) Changes of Title of Chairholder(s)Mr. James F. Deetz from David A. Harrison III Professor of New World Studies to David A. Harrison III Professor of Historical Archaeology, effective April 8, 1995.Mr. Arthur C. Kirsch from John C. Coleman Professor of English to Alice Griffin Professor of English Literature, effective January 1, 1995.(c) Retirements of Chairholder(s)

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Edwin Burmeister, Commonwealth Professor of Economics, effective January 15, 1995. Mr. Burmeister has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1976.Mr. Robert W. Haigh, Distinguished Professor of Business Administration, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Haigh has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1979.(d) Appointment of Chairholder

The following appointments were announced: Mr. David W. Breneman, as Dean, School of Education, for five years, effective July 1, 1995.

Promotions
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members are hereby promoted:Ms. Janet Beizer from Associate Professor of French to Professor of French, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. Walter Hauser from Associate Professor of History to Professor of History, effective April 1, 1995.Ms. Catherine F. Kane from Associate Professor of Nursing to Associate Professor of Nursing (without term), effective July 1, 1995.Mr. Gordon W. Laurie from Assistant Professor of Cell Biology to Associate Professor of Cell Biology, for two years, effective December 16, 1994.Mr. John A. Owen from Lecturer in Medical Education to Assistant Professor of Research in Medical Education, for two years, effective December 1, 1994.Ms. Sally J. Reel from Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty to Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Arlene F. Yuan from Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty to Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1995.

Changes of Title
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title are hereby made:Mr. Hoyun Lee from Research Associate in Biochemistry to Assistant Professor of Research in Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology, for the period January 1, 1995 through July 31, 1995.Ms. Margaret A. Lindorfer from Research Associate in Pharmacology to Assistant Professor of Research in Pharmacology, for one year, effective January 1, 1995.

Resignations
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Gary A. Anderson, Associate Professor of Religious Studies, effective May 31, 1995, to accept another position.Mr. Matthew J. Combs, Assistant Professor of Research in Radiology, effective February 1, 1995, to accept another position.Dr. Romano Danesi, Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, effective December 31, 1994, for personal reasons.Mr. Keith N. Eshleman, Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective August 31, 1995, to accept another position.Dr. Keith E. Friend, Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, effective February 28, 1995, to accept another position.Dr. W. Harry Horner, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective February 28, 1995, to accept another position.Dr. John P. Pelegano, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 14, 1995, to accept another position.Dr. Cara B. Siegel, Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, effective February 28, 1995, to accept another position.Mr. Edward A. Sykes, Research Associate Professor of Systems Engineering, effective January 3, 1995, to accept another position.Dr. Paul J.W. Tawney, Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, effective February 5, 1995, to accept another position.Mr. Jie Wu, Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, effective January 6, 1995, to accept another position.

Retirements
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Ms. Rose M. Chioni, Professor of Nursing, effective May 31, 1995. Ms. Chioni has been a member of the faculty since February 1, 1974.Dr. Byard S. Deputy, Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty effective September 30, 1994. Dr. Deputy has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1967.Mr. Walter Hauser, Professor of History, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Hauser has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1960.Mr. Lembit U. Lilleleht, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective June 1, 1995. Mr. Lilleleht has been a member of the faculty since February 1, 1966.Mr. Chong Mo Pak, Professor, General Faculty, effective January 16, 1995. Mr. Pak has been a member of the faculty since January 16, 1992.Mr. John L. Ruseau, Associate Professor of Architecture, effective March 1, 1995. Mr. Ruseau has been a member of the faculty since February 1, 1962.

Appointment
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Ms. Teresa W. Lockard as Director of the Budget, for the period March 1, 1995 through September 1, 1996.

Re-appointments
---------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Jr. as University History Officer, for the period January 16, 1995 through December 31, 1995.

Election of Professors Emeriti
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Edwin Burmeister, Commonwealth Professor of Economics, effective January 15, 1995.Ms. Rose M. Chioni, Professor of Nursing, effective May 31, 1995.Dr. Byard S. Deputy, Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty, effective September 30, 1994.Mr. Robert W. Haigh, Distinguished Professor of Business Administration, effective May 31, 1995.Mr. Walter Hauser, Professor of History, effective May 31, 1995.

Election of Associate Professor Emeritus
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person is hereby elected Associate Professor Emeritus:Mr. Lembit U. Lilleleht, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective June 1, 1995.

Deaths
------

CHANGE IN THE RETIREMENT OF MR. WILLIAM A. LITTLE
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the retirement of Mr. William Little, Professor of German, effective May 31, 1995, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of February 4, 1995, be changed to read as follows:Mr. William Little, Professor of German and Music, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Little has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1966.

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION TO PROFESSOR EMERITUS OF MR. WILLIAM A. LITTLE
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election to Professor Emeritus of Mr. William A. Little, Professor of German, effective May 31, 1995, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of February 4, 1995, be changed to read as follows:Mr. William A. Little, Professor of German and Music, effective May 31, 1995.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

In reporting gifts and grants to the Board, the President noted an extraordinary increase in private giving to the University during the period June 30, 1994-February 28, 1995. Some $46.9 million was given, an increase of 18.7% over the same period last year; it is the largest cash flow in the history of the University. Individual giving is up by 14% over the same period last year, corporate giving has increased by 46% and foundation gifts by 19%. There were increases in giving in particular to the School of Medicine, to the Rector and Visitors, to Arts & Sciences, to the Medical Center, to the School of Engineering, to Athletics, and to the University of Virginia Foundation. Giving to the Bayly Museum increased by 176% over the same period last year.

The Report was accepted by the Board.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR JAMES SLOAN KUYKENDALL, JR.
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS James Sloan Kuykendall, Jr., a native of West Virginia, took his law degree from the University of Virginia in 1931, and from that year until the end of his life, lived and practiced law in Winchester; andWHEREAS Mr. Kuykendall was a distinguished member of the Bar and served his profession and the Commonwealth with devotion and great distinction; andWHEREAS Mr. Kuykendall was a member of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia for eight years, from 1964 to 1972; andWHEREAS Mr. Kuykendall died in Winchester on February 17, 1995;RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors takes note of the devotion of James Sloan Kuykendall, Jr. to the University of Virginia, and expresses gratitude for his life and deepest sympathy to his children.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR ALBERTIS SYDNEY HARRISON, JR.
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Albertis Sydney Harrison, Jr., was born in 1907 at Alberta in Brunswick County and took a law degree from the University of Virginia in 1928; andWHEREAS Mr. Harrison served Virginia as Attorney General, as Governor of the Commonwealth and as a Justice of the Supreme Court of Appeals; andWHEREAS Mr. Harrison was a distinguished member of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia in 1966 and 1967; andWHEREAS Mr. Harrison died on January 25, 1995, in Lawrenceville;RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors takes note of the distinguished service of Albertis Sydney Harrison, Jr., to the Board, to the University of Virginia, and to the Commonwealth, and expresses sorrow at his passing and deepest sympathy to his family.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR LAWRENCE LEWIS, JR.
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., was born in Wilmington, North Carolina, on July 6, 1918, and lived in Richmond most of his life; andWHEREAS, Mr. Lewis was a student at the University of Virginia from 1937 to 1939, and from 1941 to 1942, during which he participated in a number of student organizations including the Football Team, Phi Kappa Sigma, and Eli Banana; andWHEREAS, Mr. Lewis served the University of Virginia with great devotion in many capacities, including member of the Board of Visitors from 1960 to 1968, and from 1970 to 1978, President of the Alumni Association in 1958-1959, President of the Virginia Student Aid Foundation in 1954-1955, Trustee of the Darden School Sponsors from 1969 to 1978, and member of the Alumni Board of Trustees from 1978 until his death; andWHEREAS, Mr. Lewis served his city and his state with similar devotion; andWHEREAS, many organizations at the University, in Richmond, elsewhere in Virginia, and outside the Commonwealth were beneficiaries of his generosity and his wise counsel; andWHEREAS, Mr. Lewis died on April 3, 1995, in Richmond;RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia notes with great regret the passing of Lawrence Lewis, Jr., marks with gratitude his life and his contributions to the University of Virginia, and expresses deepest sympathy to Mrs. Lewis and to their family.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION TO ALLISON SIMS LINNEY
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Allison Sims Linney of Maitland, Florida, matriculated in the University of Virginia in 1991, and has achieved both academic distinction and an impressive record of service to the University; andWHEREAS Ms. Linney was elected the Student Member of the Board of Visitors in April 1994, and assumed office in June of that year; andWHEREAS Ms. Linney has brought valuable insights to the Board as the Student Member and has served both her student peers and the Board with great distinction; andWHEREAS Ms. Linney's term on the Board will expire in April and she will take a Bachelor of Arts from the University in May;RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors thanks Allison Sims Linney for her service to the University of Virginia, and particularly to the Board, and wishes her every good fortune as she leaves Charlottesville.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LOUISE NERANCY PROFESSORSHIP IN NEUROLOGY
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the Louise Nerancy Professorship in Neurology. The Board is grateful to the late Louise Nerancy who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EVELYN TROUP HOBSON PROFESSORSHIP IN HEALTH EVALUATION SCIENCES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the Evelyn Troup Hobson Professorship in Health Evaluation Sciences. The Board is grateful to Mr. William Hobson who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WILLIAM HOBSON PROFESSORSHIP IN INFORMATION SCIENCES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the William Hobson Professorship in Information Sciences. The Board is grateful to Mr. William Hobson who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WILLIAM L. MATHESON AND ROBERT M. MORGENTHAU RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Law a Chair to be known as the William L. Matheson and Robert M. Morgenthau Research Professorship in Law. The Board is grateful to Mr. William L. Matheson who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CLASS OF 1941 RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Law a Chair to be known as the Class of 1941 Research Professorship in Law. The Board is grateful to the School of Law Class of 1941 which made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NICHOLAS E. CHIMICLES RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS LAW AND REGULATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Law a Chair to be known as the Nicholas E. Chimicles Research Professorship in Business Law and Regulation. The Board is grateful to Mr. Nicholas E. Chimicles who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

APPROVAL OF CHANGE IN THE NAME OF PROFESSORSHIP
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the David A. Harrison, III, Professorship in New World Studies be changed to the David A. Harrison, III, Professorship in Historical Archaeology.

APPROVAL OF THE PRELIMINIARY DESIGN FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE WYLLIE LIBRARY ADDITION AND RENOVATION PROJECT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the preliminary design for the construction of the Clinch Valley College Wyllie Library Addition and Renovation project, as illustrated on drawings titled:1. Site Plan2. North and East Elevations3. South and West Elevations4. Lower and Upper Level Floor Plans5. Perspective Views (Exterior)dated April 7, 1995, and prepared by Thompson & Litton, Inc., of Wise, Virginia, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF THE REVISED PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE NEWCOMB HALL EXPANSION PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.

L-1,

Site Plan

2.

A-2,

Basement South Plan

3.

A-4,

First Floor South Plan

4.

A-6,

Second Floor South Plan

5.

A-8,

Third Floor South Plan

6.

A-10,

Fourth Floor South Plan

7.

A-12,

Fifth Floor/Roof South Plan

8.

A-13,

West Elevation

9.

A-14,

South Elevation

10.

A-15,

East Elevation

11.

A-16,

Building Cross Sections

12.

S-1,

Foundation Plan

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the revised preliminary design for the construction of the Newcomb Hall Expansion Project, as illustrated on drawings titled: 1.L-1,Site Plan2.A-2,Basement South Plan3.A-4,First Floor South Plan4.A-6,Second Floor South Plan5.A-8,Third Floor South Plan6.A-10,Fourth Floor South Plan7.A-12,Fifth Floor/Roof South Plan8.A-13,West Elevation9.A-14,South Elevation10.A-15,East Elevation11.A-16,Building Cross Sections12.S-1,Foundation Plan dated April 7, 1995, and prepared by Ayers/Saint/Gross, Inc., of Baltimore, Maryland, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION, CORPORATE BY-LAWS, AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR HEALTH PARTNERS, THE JOINT VENTURE CORPORATION BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA HEALTH SERVICES FOUNDATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS with authority granted the University's Board of Visitors by 1994 legislation of the General Assembly of Virginia pertaining to the operations of the Medical Center (Sec. 23-77.3 of the Code of Virginia) to create joint ventures, the Health Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors approved in February 1995, formation of a new non-profit corporation, involving the Medical Center and the Health Services Foundation, to conduct activities that are externally oriented, require partnership between these two organizations, and may entail forming partnerships with other providers and businesses; andWHEREAS this new corporation, to be known as Health Partners, is subject to the University's Policy on University-related Foundations and any other provisions that the President deems appropriate to monitor the activities of the corporation; andWHEREAS the University was authorized to invest $4,000,000, from the Medical Center to capitalize the corporation, with future funding from the Medical Center to be authorized by the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors, based on the corporation's budget; andWHEREAS the Health Affairs Committee and the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors were authorized to approve articles of incorporation, by-laws and any additional items associated with creation of the corporation, including composition of the board of directors; andWHEREAS the articles of incorporation and by-laws for Health Partners have been prepared and reviewed by appropriate University officials, and the establishment of a seven member board of directors is proposed in said articles, consisting of five ex officio members whose positions are listed in the articles, and two public directors who are not officers or employees of the University or the Health Services Foundation and who, except for the initial two public directors, are to be elected by the board of directors;RESOLVED that the articles of incorporation, by-laws, and composition of the board of directors of Health Partners, Inc., with the initial two public directors to be chosen by the President of the University, be approved.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISIONREGULAR SESSION:CONTINUING EDUCATION:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 1994-95

Amount of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1995-96

Actual 1994-95

Amount of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1995-96

Tuition and Required Fees

Undergraduate and Graduate School Full Time

$4,452

$134

3.0%

$4,586

$13,024

$954

7.3%

$13,978

Medical Technology

$2,174

$70

3.2%

$2,244

$2,174

$70

3.2%

$2,244

Professional Schools:

Graduate Bus. - MBA

$9,302

$670

7.2%

$9,972

$17,756

$1,298

7.3%

$19,054

Law - JD and Graduate

$8,150

$584

7.2%

$8,734

$17,370

$1,268

7.3%

$18,638

Law Base In-State Tuition Adjustment (First Year Students Only)

$0

$1,500

n/a

$1,500

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

Medicine - MD

$8,964

$274

3.1%

$9,238

$20,216

$996

4.9%

$21,212

Music Lessons (13 one-hour \[1\] \[1\]The cost of half-hour sessions will be prorated. lessons per semester)

$492

$14

2.8%

$506

$492

$14

2.8%

$506

Mid-Career Program Fee

$500

$0

0.0%

$500

$500

$0

0.0%

$500

Activity Fee

General - All Students

$28

$0

0.0%

$28

$28

$0

0.0%

$28

Part-Time Students

$8

$0

0.0%

$8

$8

$0

0.0%

$8

College of Arts&Sci. Students

$4

$0

0.0%

$4

$4

$0

0.0%

$4

Architecture

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

Commerce

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Darden

$55

$0

0.0%

$55

$55

$0

0.0%

$55

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 1994-95

Amount of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1995-96

Actual 1994-95

Amount of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1995-96

Activity Fees(cont'd)

Education

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Engineering

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Grad. Arts & Sciences

$4

$0

0.0%

$4

$4

$0

0.0%

$4

Law School

$28

$0

0.0%

$28

$28

$0

0.0%

$28

Medicine

$114

$26

22.8%

$140

$114

$26

22.8%

$140

Nursing

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Residential College Programming Fee

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

Current 1994-95

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1995-96

Non-Degree Programs - Undergraduate and Graduate (Including Certification Program)

Per Semester Hour\* \*Per semester hour rates for Educators in K-12 will be $129 for Virginian and $183 for Non-Virginian.

Virginian

$137

$4

2.9%

$141

Non-Virginian

$187

$14

7.5%

$201

Special Students Registered through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds Courses Per Semester Hour

Virginian

$205

$6

2.9%

$211

Non-Virginian

$675

$51

7.6%

$726

Masters Degree Programs Per Semester Hour

Virginian

$179

$5

2.8%

$184

Non-Virginian

$233

$17

7.3%

$250

Graduate Televised Engineering Per Semester Hour

Virginian

$183

$32

17.5%

$215

Non-Virginian

$363

$29

8.0%

$392

Current 1994-95

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1995-96

Application Fee for Certificate and Special Programs

$25

$0

0.0%

$25

Late Registration Fee

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

Change of Course Fee

$12

$0

0.0%

$12

Facilities Fee - Northern Virginia Center (Per Semester Hour)

$0

$0

n/a

$5

Transcript Fee

$3

$0

0.0%

$3

Late Exam Fee

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the Academic Division be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1995: REGULAR SESSION:VirginianNon-VirginianActual 1994-95Amount of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1995-96Actual 1994-95Amount of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1995-96Tuition and Required FeesUndergraduate and Graduate School Full Time$4,452$1343.0%$4,586$13,024$9547.3%$13,978Medical Technology$2,174$703.2%$2,244$2,174$703.2%$2,244Professional Schools:Graduate Bus. - MBA$9,302$6707.2%$9,972$17,756$1,2987.3%$19,054Law - JD and Graduate$8,150$5847.2%$8,734$17,370$1,2687.3%$18,638Law Base In-State Tuition Adjustment (First Year Students Only)$0$1,500n/a$1,500n/an/an/an/aMedicine - MD$8,964$2743.1%$9,238$20,216$9964.9%$21,212Music Lessons (13 one-hour \[1\] \[1\]The cost of half-hour sessions will be prorated. lessons per semester)$492$142.8%$506$492$142.8%$506Mid-Career Program Fee$500$00.0%$500$500$00.0%$500Activity FeeGeneral - All Students$28$00.0%$28$28$00.0%$28Part-Time Students$8$00.0%$8$8$00.0%$8College of Arts&Sci. Students$4$00.0%$4$4$00.0%$4Architecture$40$00.0%$40$40$00.0%$40Commerce$10$00.0%$10$10$00.0%$10Darden$55$00.0%$55$55$00.0%$55 VirginianNon-VirginianActual 1994-95Amount of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1995-96Actual 1994-95Amount of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1995-96Activity Fees(cont'd)Education$10$00.0%$10$10$00.0%$10Engineering$10$00.0%$10$10$00.0%$10Grad. Arts & Sciences$4$00.0%$4$4$00.0%$4Law School$28$00.0%$28$28$00.0%$28Medicine$114$2622.8%$140$114$2622.8%$140Nursing$10$00.0%$10$10$00.0%$10Residential College Programming Fee$100$00.0%$100$100$00.0%$100 CONTINUING EDUCATION:Current 1994-95Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1995-96Non-Degree Programs - Undergraduate and Graduate (Including Certification Program)Per Semester Hour\* \*Per semester hour rates for Educators in K-12 will be $129 for Virginian and $183 for Non-Virginian. Virginian$137$42.9%$141Non-Virginian$187$147.5%$201Special Students Registered through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds Courses Per Semester HourVirginian$205$62.9%$211Non-Virginian$675$517.6%$726Masters Degree Programs Per Semester HourVirginian$179$52.8%$184Non-Virginian$233$177.3%$250Graduate Televised Engineering Per Semester HourVirginian$183$3217.5%$215Non-Virginian$363$298.0%$392 Current 1994-95Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1995-96Application Fee for Certificate and Special Programs$25$00.0%$25Late Registration Fee$15$00.0%$15Change of Course Fee$12$00.0%$12Facilities Fee - Northern Virginia Center (Per Semester Hour)$0$0n/a$5Transcript Fee$3$00.0%$3Late Exam Fee$10$00.0%$10

The cost of half-hour sessions will be prorated.

Per semester hour rates for Educators in K-12 will be $129 for Virginian and $183 for Non-Virginian.

Other Miscellaneous Fees as established to recover expenses such as laboratory, materials, etc., on a basis of estimated cost.

OTHER:

Other contracted course and cooperative program tuition and required fee rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 1994-95

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1995-96

Actual 1994-95

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1995-96

Tuition and Required Fees

Full-time Students

(12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate

$3,093

$107

3.5%

$3,200 \* \*Tuition $2,368 + Fees $832 = $3,200

$7,168

$356

5.0%

$7,524 \*\* \*\*Tuition $6,692 + Fees $832 = $7,524

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below.

Part-time Students

(less than 12 semester hrs per semester) Rate per semester hour

$95

$1

1.1%

$96

$265

$13

4.9%

$278

Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour

$95

$1

1.1%

$96

$183

$10

5.5%

$193

Non-Credit Courses - Rate per CEU

$33

$1

3.0%

$34

$96

$4

4.2%

$100

Other Fees

Application Fee

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

Graduation Fee

$50

$0

0.0%

$50

$50

$0

0.0%

$50

Returned Check Fee

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

A Registration Fee for part-time students will be $5 per semester hour.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to Clinch Valley College be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1995: VirginianNon-VirginianActual 1994-95Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1995-96Actual 1994-95Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1995-96Tuition and Required FeesFull-time Students(12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate$3,093$1073.5%$3,200 \* \*Tuition $2,368 + Fees $832 = $3,200 $7,168$3565.0%$7,524 \*\* \*\*Tuition $6,692 + Fees $832 = $7,524 Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below. Part-time Students(less than 12 semester hrs per semester) Rate per semester hour$95$11.1%$96$265$134.9%$278Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour$95$11.1%$96$183$105.5%$193Non-Credit Courses - Rate per CEU$33$13.0%$34$96$44.2%$100Other FeesApplication Fee$15$00.0%$15$15$00.0%$15Graduation Fee$50$00.0%$50$50$00.0%$50Returned Check Fee$15$00.0%$15$15$00.0%$15A Registration Fee for part-time students will be $5 per semester hour.

Tuition $2,368 + Fees $832 = $3,200

Tuition $6,692 + Fees $832 = $7,524

APPROVAL OF ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES FOR 1995-96
---------------------------------------------------

Actual 1994-95

Amount of Inc/(Decr)

Percent Inc/(Decr)

Proposed 1995-96

Pledged for Facilities-University Hall

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

University Transit

$61

$0

0.0%

$61

Auxiliary Services Fee (including debt service)

$235

$10

4.3%

$245

Athletics

$124

$8

6.5%

$132

Student Health

$192

$0

0.0%

$192

University Union

$49

$8

16.3%

$57

University Union Programs

$16

$0

0.0%

$16

Capital Renewal Fee

$24

$0

0.0%

$24

Arts Fee

$12

$0

0.0%

$12

TOTAL IN-STATE STUDENTS

$728

$26

3.6%

$754

Debt Service Fee - 1992 General Obligation Bonds

$84

$0

0.0%

$84

TOTAL OUT-OF-STATE STUDENTS

$812

$26

3.2%

$838

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the fee component of the tuition and required fees be established, effective July 1, 1995, in the amount of $754 for in-state students and $838 for out-of-state students;RESOLVED FURTHER that the fee component be allocated for the 1995-96 Session as follows: Actual 1994-95Amount of Inc/(Decr)Percent Inc/(Decr)Proposed 1995-96Pledged for Facilities-University Hall$15$00.0%$15University Transit$61$00.0%$61Auxiliary Services Fee (including debt service)$235$104.3%$245Athletics$124$86.5%$132Student Health$192$00.0%$192University Union$49$816.3%$57University Union Programs$16$00.0%$16Capital Renewal Fee$24$00.0%$24Arts Fee$12$00.0%$12TOTAL IN-STATE STUDENTS$728$263.6%$754Debt Service Fee - 1992 General Obligation Bonds$84$00.0%$84TOTAL OUT-OF-STATE STUDENTS$812$263.2%$838

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED CONTRACT RATES FOR DINING SERVICES FOR 1995-96 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ACADEMIC DIVISION

Actual 1994-95

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1995-96

Dining Service Contract

7 Day (19 meals)

$1,976

$54

2.7%

$2,030

9 Meals per week

$1,750

$40

2.3%

$1,790

12 Meals per week

$1,880

$40

2.1%

$1,920

15 Meals per week

$1,950

$50

2.6%

$2,000

50 Meals per semester

$800

$30

3.8%

$830

100 Meals per semester

$1,276

$34

2.7%

$1,310

Lunch 50, per semester (1) (1)Discontinued due to insufficient participation

$680

\---

\---

\---

Brown College/French House

9 Meals per week

$1,936

$54

2.8%

$1,990

12 Meals per week

$2,050

$70

3.4%

$2,120

15 Meals per week

$2,160

$40

1.9%

$2,200

100 Meals per semester

$1,470

$40

2.7%

$1,510

Hereford College

9 Meals per week

$1,846

$54

2.9%

$1,900

12 Meals per week

$1,970

$60

3.0%

$2,030

15 Meals per week

$2,070

$40

1.9%

$2,110

19 Meals per week

$2,090

$50

2.4%

$2,140

100 Meals per semester

$1,410

$10

0.7%

$1,420

Athletics

9 Meals per week

$2,090

$50

2.4%

$2,140

12 Meals per week

$2,090

$50

2.4%

$2,140

15 Meals per week

$2,090

$60

2.9%

$2,150

19 Meals per week

$2,120

$60

2.8%

$2,180

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE

19 Meal Plan

$1,798

$108

6.0%

$1,906

12 Meal Plan

$1,618

$96

5.9%

$1,714

7 Meal Plan

$809

$49

6.0%

$858

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the student contract rates for dining services be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 1995-96 Session: ACADEMIC DIVISIONActual 1994-95Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1995-96Dining Service Contract7 Day (19 meals)$1,976$542.7%$2,0309 Meals per week$1,750$402.3%$1,79012 Meals per week$1,880$402.1%$1,92015 Meals per week$1,950$502.6%$2,00050 Meals per semester$800$303.8%$830100 Meals per semester$1,276$342.7%$1,310Lunch 50, per semester (1) (1)Discontinued due to insufficient participation $680---------Brown College/French House9 Meals per week$1,936$542.8%$1,99012 Meals per week$2,050$703.4%$2,12015 Meals per week$2,160$401.9%$2,200100 Meals per semester$1,470$402.7%$1,510Hereford College9 Meals per week$1,846$542.9%$1,90012 Meals per week$1,970$603.0%$2,03015 Meals per week$2,070$401.9%$2,11019 Meals per week$2,090$502.4%$2,140100 Meals per semester$1,410$100.7%$1,420Athletics9 Meals per week$2,090$502.4%$2,14012 Meals per week$2,090$502.4%$2,14015 Meals per week$2,090$602.9%$2,15019 Meals per week$2,120$602.8%$2,180CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE19 Meal Plan$1,798$1086.0%$1,90612 Meal Plan$1,618$965.9%$1,7147 Meal Plan$809$496.0%$858

Discontinued due to insufficient participation

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR 1995-96 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEACADEMIC DIVISION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Properties

Utilities Furnished

Rents 1994-95 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1995-96 Per Month

Utilities Paid By Occupant

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom Apt. (2)

WS,E,G,C

$390

$0

0.00%

$390

1 Bedroom Apt. (5)\* The single asterisk (\*) denotes properties that have been modernized or that the market rate is being charged.

WS,E,G,C

$395

$0

0.00%

$395

2 Bedroom Apt. (5)

WS,E,G,C

$485

$0

0.00%

$485

Piedmont Estates (cont'd)

2 Bedroom Apt. (11)\*

WS,E,G,C

$505

$0

0.00%

$505

3 Bedroom Houses (9)

WS,C

$538

$19

3.53%

$557

E,O or G,E

3 Bedroom Houses (7)\*

WS,C

$690

$0

0.00%

$690

G,E

3BR Townhouses (3)\*

WS,C

$690

$0

0.00%

$690

E

3BR Townhouses (2)

WS,C

$538

$19

3.53%

$557

E

121 Mimosa (Farmhouse)

Apt. 1, 1 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C

$385

$0

0.00%

$385

Apt. 2, 3 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C

$450

$0

0.00%

$450

Apt. 3, 1 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C

$385

$0

0.00%

$385

Apt. 4, 2 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C

$414

$0

0.00%

$414

Monroe Lane

1 Bedroom (8)

WS,G,C

$360

$0

0.00%

$360

E

1 Bedroom (7)\*

WS,G,C

$390

$0

0.00%

$390

E

Efficiency (1)

WS,G,C

$300

$0

0.00%

$300

E

404 Monroe Ln (2BR)

WS,G,C

$445

$0

0.00%

$445

E

412A Monroe Ln (2BR)

WS,G,C

$460

$0

0.00%

$460

E

412B Monroe Ln (Eff)

WS,G,C

$310

$0

0.00%

$310

E

Sundry

Vyssotsky Cottage (3BR)

WS

$466

$16

3.43%

$482

E,O

Upper Alden (3BR)

WS,O,C

$512

$0

0.00%

$512

E

Lower Alden (2BR)\*

WS,O,C

$450

$0

0.00%

$450

E

McGuffey Cottage (Eff)

WS,E,HP,C

$310

$0

0.00%

$310

Properties

Utilities Furnished

Rents 1994-95 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1995-96 Per Month

Utilities Paid By Occupant

Upper Mews (1BR)\*\* The double asterisk (\*\*) designates properties that were vacated, renovated and modernized during the year. As a result, rates were increased to reflect the current market level when the units were re-occupied.

WS,E,HP,C

$481

$0

0.00%

$481

Lower Mews (1BR)

WS,E,HP,C

$400

$0

0.00%

$400

Brown College Range (2BR)

WS,C,HP

$495

$0

0.00%

$495

E

Brown College Apt. (2)

WS,E,C,HP

$440

$0

0.00%

$440

Hereford Coll. Fac. Apts. (2)

WS,E,C,HP,A/C

$535

$0

0.00%

$535

Vaughn House

WS,E,C,HP,A/C

$660

$0

0.00%

$660

102 Cresap Fac. Apt.

WS,E,G,C

$495

$0

0.00%

$495

Birdwood Properties

Cottage (1BR)

WS,C

$347

$0

0.00%

$347

E

Garage (2BR)\*

WS,C

$566

$0

0.00%

$566

E,O

Cash House (3BR)

WS,C

$554

$19

3.43%

$573

E,O

Birdwood House (3BR)

WS,C

$605

$21

3.47%

$626

E,O,G

Faulkner Properties

Holly House Upper (2BR)

WS,E,O,C

$430

$0

0.00%

$430

Holly House Lower (1RM)

WS,E,O,C

$215

$0

0.00%

$215

Hedge House (2BR)

WS,C

$404

$14

3.47%

$418

E,O

Orchard House (5RMS)\*\*

WS,E,O,C

$255

$0

0.00%

$255

Carriage House (4BR)

WS,C

$471

$16

3.40%

$487

E,G

118 Oakhurst, Upper (2BR)\*

WS,G,C

$475

$0

0.00%

$475

E

118 Oakhurst, Lower (2BR)\*

WS,G,C

$500

$0

0.00%

$500

E

409 Valley Road, (2BR)

C

$430

$0

0.00%

$430

WS,E,O

411 Valley Road, (2BR)\*

C

$540

$0

0.00%

$540

WS,E,G

503 Valley Road, (1BR)

C

$350

$0

0.00%

$350

WS,E,G

Faculty Apartments

Apt. 11, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$455

$0

0.00%

$455

Apt. 12, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$455

$0

0.00%

$455

Apt. 14, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$455

$0

0.00%

$455

Apt. 15, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$455

$0

0.00%

$455

Apt. 21, (Eff)\*

WS,E,G,C

$320

$0

0.00%

$320

Apt. 22, (1BR)\*

WS,E,G,C

$360

$0

0.00%

$360

Apt. 23, (Eff)\*

WS,E,G,C

$305

$0

0.00%

$305

Apt. 24, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$350

$0

0.00%

$350

Apt. 25, (1BR)\*

WS,E,G,C

$370

$0

0.00%

$370

Apt. 26, (1BR)\*

WS,E,G,C

$370

$0

0.00%

$370

Apt. 27, (1BR)\*

WS,E,G,C

$370

$0

0.00%

$370

Apt. 28, (1BR)\*

WS,E,G,C

$370

$0

0.00%

$370

Properties

Utilities Furnished

Rents 1994-95 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1995-96 Per Month

Utilities Paid By Occupant

Apt. 31, (1BR)\*

WS,E,G,C

$370

$0

0.00%

$370

Apt. 32, (1BR)\*\*

WS,E,G,C

$370

$0

0.00%

$370

Apt. 33, (2BR)\*

WS,E,G,C

$400

$0

0.00%

$400

Apt. 34, (2BR)\*

WS,E,G,C

$400

$0

0.00%

$400

Apt. 35, (2BR)\*\*

WS,E,G,C

$400

$0

0.00%

$400

Apt. 36, (2BR)\*\*

WS,E,G,C

$400

$0

0.00%

$400

E & G Properties

Montebello, (3 BR/Garage)

O

$533

$16

3.00%

$549

WS,E

Big Morea (4 BR)

WS,E,O,C,A/C

$750

$24

3.20%

$774

Little Morea (2BR)

WS,E,O,C,A/C

$578

$19

3.29%

$597

Sunnyside (4BR)

C

$1,228

$40

3.26%

$1,268

WS,E,O

Brown College House (3 BR)

WS,E,HVAC

$683

$21

3.07%

$704

Pavilion I

WS,E,HVAC

$613

$19

3.10%

$632

Pavilion II

WS,HP

$453

$13

2.87%

$466

E

Pavilion III

WS,E,HVAC

$613

$19

3.10%

$632

Pavilion IV

WS,HP

$453

$13

2.87%

$466

E

Pavilion V

WS,HVAC

$613

$19

3.10%

$632

E

Pavilion VI

WS,E,HVAC

$613

$19

3.10%

$632

Pavilion VIII Lower

WS,E,HVAC

$187

$12

6.42%

$199

Pavilion VIII Upper

WS,E,HVAC

$388

$16

4.12%

$404

Pavilion IX

WS,HP

$613

$19

3.10%

$632

E

Pavilion X

WS,HP

$453

$13

2.87%

$466

E

Blandy Farm

Curator's House

WS

$0

$0

0.00%

$0

E,O

Farmhouse

WS

$600

$30

5.00%

$630

E,O

Green Farm House

WS,E

$61

$4

6.56%

$65

O

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE

Houses (6)

WS

$400

$20

5.00%

$420

G,E

2 Bedroom Apt (2)

WS,G

$400

$20

5.00%

$420

E

1 Bedroom Apt (2)

WS,G

$375

$20

5.33%

$395

E

Cohen House

n/a

$500

$25

5.00%

$525

all

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the faculty and staff housing rates be approved as indicated effective July 1, 1995. The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to increase the rates to market level when a property is vacated: ACADEMIC DIVISIONPropertiesUtilities FurnishedRents 1994-95 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1995-96 Per MonthUtilities Paid By OccupantPiedmont Estates1 Bedroom Apt. (2)WS,E,G,C$390$00.00%$3901 Bedroom Apt. (5)\* The single asterisk (\*) denotes properties that have been modernized or that the market rate is being charged. WS,E,G,C$395$00.00%$3952 Bedroom Apt. (5)WS,E,G,C$485$00.00%$485Piedmont Estates (cont'd)2 Bedroom Apt. (11)\*WS,E,G,C$505$00.00%$5053 Bedroom Houses (9)WS,C$538$193.53%$557E,O or G,E3 Bedroom Houses (7)\*WS,C$690$00.00%$690G,E3BR Townhouses (3)\*WS,C$690$00.00%$690E3BR Townhouses (2)WS,C$538$193.53%$557E121 Mimosa (Farmhouse)Apt. 1, 1 BedroomWS,E,G,C$385$00.00%$385Apt. 2, 3 BedroomWS,E,G,C$450$00.00%$450Apt. 3, 1 BedroomWS,E,G,C$385$00.00%$385Apt. 4, 2 BedroomWS,E,G,C$414$00.00%$414Monroe Lane1 Bedroom (8)WS,G,C$360$00.00%$360E1 Bedroom (7)\*WS,G,C$390$00.00%$390EEfficiency (1)WS,G,C$300$00.00%$300E404 Monroe Ln (2BR)WS,G,C$445$00.00%$445E412A Monroe Ln (2BR)WS,G,C$460$00.00%$460E412B Monroe Ln (Eff)WS,G,C$310$00.00%$310ESundryVyssotsky Cottage (3BR)WS$466$163.43%$482E,OUpper Alden (3BR)WS,O,C$512$00.00%$512ELower Alden (2BR)\*WS,O,C$450$00.00%$450EMcGuffey Cottage (Eff)WS,E,HP,C$310$00.00%$310 PropertiesUtilities FurnishedRents 1994-95 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1995-96 Per MonthUtilities Paid By OccupantUpper Mews (1BR)\*\* The double asterisk (\*\*) designates properties that were vacated, renovated and modernized during the year. As a result, rates were increased to reflect the current market level when the units were re-occupied. WS,E,HP,C$481$00.00%$481Lower Mews (1BR)WS,E,HP,C$400$00.00%$400Brown College Range (2BR)WS,C,HP$495$00.00%$495EBrown College Apt. (2)WS,E,C,HP$440$00.00%$440Hereford Coll. Fac. Apts. (2)WS,E,C,HP,A/C$535$00.00%$535Vaughn HouseWS,E,C,HP,A/C$660$00.00%$660102 Cresap Fac. Apt.WS,E,G,C$495$00.00%$495Birdwood PropertiesCottage (1BR)WS,C$347$00.00%$347EGarage (2BR)\*WS,C$566$00.00%$566E,OCash House (3BR)WS,C$554$193.43%$573E,OBirdwood House (3BR)WS,C$605$213.47%$626E,O,GFaulkner PropertiesHolly House Upper (2BR)WS,E,O,C$430$00.00%$430Holly House Lower (1RM)WS,E,O,C$215$00.00%$215Hedge House (2BR)WS,C$404$143.47%$418E,OOrchard House (5RMS)\*\*WS,E,O,C$255$00.00%$255Carriage House (4BR)WS,C$471$163.40%$487E,G118 Oakhurst, Upper (2BR)\*WS,G,C$475$00.00%$475E118 Oakhurst, Lower (2BR)\*WS,G,C$500$00.00%$500E409 Valley Road, (2BR)C$430$00.00%$430WS,E,O411 Valley Road, (2BR)\*C$540$00.00%$540WS,E,G503 Valley Road, (1BR)C$350$00.00%$350WS,E,GFaculty ApartmentsApt. 11, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$455$00.00%$455Apt. 12, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$455$00.00%$455Apt. 14, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$455$00.00%$455Apt. 15, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$455$00.00%$455Apt. 21, (Eff)\*WS,E,G,C$320$00.00%$320Apt. 22, (1BR)\*WS,E,G,C$360$00.00%$360Apt. 23, (Eff)\*WS,E,G,C$305$00.00%$305Apt. 24, (1BR)WS,E,G,C$350$00.00%$350Apt. 25, (1BR)\*WS,E,G,C$370$00.00%$370Apt. 26, (1BR)\*WS,E,G,C$370$00.00%$370Apt. 27, (1BR)\*WS,E,G,C$370$00.00%$370Apt. 28, (1BR)\*WS,E,G,C$370$00.00%$370 PropertiesUtilities FurnishedRents 1994-95 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1995-96 Per MonthUtilities Paid By OccupantApt. 31, (1BR)\*WS,E,G,C$370$00.00%$370Apt. 32, (1BR)\*\*WS,E,G,C$370$00.00%$370Apt. 33, (2BR)\*WS,E,G,C$400$00.00%$400Apt. 34, (2BR)\*WS,E,G,C$400$00.00%$400Apt. 35, (2BR)\*\*WS,E,G,C$400$00.00%$400Apt. 36, (2BR)\*\*WS,E,G,C$400$00.00%$400E & G PropertiesMontebello, (3 BR/Garage)O$533$163.00%$549WS,EBig Morea (4 BR)WS,E,O,C,A/C$750$243.20%$774Little Morea (2BR)WS,E,O,C,A/C$578$193.29%$597Sunnyside (4BR)C$1,228$403.26%$1,268WS,E,OBrown College House (3 BR)WS,E,HVAC$683$213.07%$704Pavilion IWS,E,HVAC$613$193.10%$632Pavilion IIWS,HP$453$132.87%$466EPavilion IIIWS,E,HVAC$613$193.10%$632Pavilion IVWS,HP$453$132.87%$466EPavilion VWS,HVAC$613$193.10%$632EPavilion VIWS,E,HVAC$613$193.10%$632Pavilion VIII LowerWS,E,HVAC$187$126.42%$199Pavilion VIII UpperWS,E,HVAC$388$164.12%$404Pavilion IXWS,HP$613$193.10%$632EPavilion XWS,HP$453$132.87%$466EBlandy FarmCurator's HouseWS$0$00.00%$0E,OFarmhouseWS$600$305.00%$630E,OGreen Farm HouseWS,E$61$46.56%$65OCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEHouses (6)WS$400$205.00%$420G,E2 Bedroom Apt (2)WS,G$400$205.00%$420E1 Bedroom Apt (2)WS,G$375$205.33%$395ECohen Housen/a$500$255.00%$525all

The single asterisk (\*) denotes properties that have been modernized or that the market rate is being charged.

The double asterisk (\*\*) designates properties that were vacated, renovated and modernized during the year. As a result, rates were increased to reflect the current market level when the units were re-occupied.

Utility abbreviations are as follows: WS (water, sewer), E (electric), G (gas), O (oil), HP (heating plant), A/C (air conditioning), and C (Cable TV).

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 1995-1996 FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Actual 1994-95

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 1995-96

Dormitories

$1,848

$148

8.00%

$1,996

Apartments

$2,134

$176

8.25%

$2,310

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the dormitory room charges applicable to Clinch Valley College be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1995: Actual 1994-95Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed 1995-96Dormitories$1,848$1488.00%$1,996Apartments$2,134$1768.25%$2,310

APPROVAL TO OFFER A UNIVERSITY SELF-INSURED HEALTH CARE PLAN TO FULL-TIME SALARIED FACULTY AND CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Department of Personnel and Training has agreed to allow the University of Virginia to offer on a pilot basis, a self-insured health care plan to its faculty and classified staff as an alternative to the State's Key Advantage health care plan; andWHEREAS the University has previously established, with the approval of the Board of Visitors and the Secretary of Education, an alternative health care plan with QualChoice of Virginia, Inc., for its health care professionals; andWHEREAS the University desires to expand the existing health care plan to incorporate full-time salaried faculty and classified employees who want to change their health care coverage from Key Advantage to QualChoice;RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the expansion of the current self-insured health care plan with QualChoice of Virginia, Inc., to include all full-time salaried faculty and classified employees who wish to enroll;RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors authorizes the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to execute an administrative services agreement with QualChoice of Virginia, Inc., as the third party administrator of the health care plan;RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors authorizes the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to engage an appropriate independent third party to review utilization statistics, premium rate structures, and other terms and conditions of the University's agreement with QualChoice of Virginia, Inc., and to advise the University as to the appropriateness of these items; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is required to report to the Board of Visitors annually on the performance of the self-insured program.

APPROVAL OF AUTHORIZATION FOR THE EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT FOR PROCUREMENT OF TELEPHONE SERVICES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS expanded needs require the University's procurement of additional capacity and enhanced services for the existing telephone system at a cost of approximately $9 million for equipment and approximately $11 million for additional equipment and services over seven years;RESOLVED that University officials are authorized to negotiate an agreement to provide for the procurement of additional capacity and enhanced services for the University's existing telephone system;RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be authorized to execute the procurement contract prepared by the Vice President and Chief Information Officer and the Chief Contracting Officer and approved for legal sufficiency by the General Counsel.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period January 1, 1995 through February 28, 1995, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 12:35 p.m.

AGG:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: April 8, 1995

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 2

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 2

NAME

VOTE

COMMENTS

yes or no

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

John P. Ackerly, III

yes

Franklin K. Birckhead

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

yes

T. Keister Greer

yes

Daniel A. Hoffler

absent

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

C. Wilson McNeely, III

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Albert H. Small

yes

Elizabeth A. Twohy

absent

Allison S. Linney

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Saturday, April 8, 1995, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTECOMMENTSyes or noHovey S. DabneyyesJohn P. Ackerly, IIIyesFranklin K. BirckheadyesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesMortimer M. CaplinyesCharles M. Caravati, Jr.yesWarner N. DalhouseyesT. Keister GreeryesDaniel A. HofflerabsentMrs. Elsie Goodwyn HollandyesEvans B. JesseeyesArnold H. LeonyesC. Wilson McNeely, IIIyesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesAlbert H. SmallyesElizabeth A. TwohyabsentAllison S. Linneyyes