 TEI to HTML

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS November 11, 1995
--------------------------------------------------------------

Faculty Personnel Actions:

Elections

Election of Chairholders

Promotion of Chairholder

Changes of Title of Chairholders

Special Salary Actions of Chairholders

Resignations of Chairholders

Retirement of Chairholder

Promotions

Changes of Title

Special Salary Actions

Resignations

Retirements

Appointments

Re-appointments

Election of Professor Emeritus

Deaths

Change in the Retirement of Mr. Stafford G. Johnston

Change in the Change of Title of Mr. Stephen N. Macciocchi

Election of Dr. Robert W. Cantrell as Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences

Re-Election of Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr. as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Approval of Reporting Relationships and Supervisory Structure for Dual Employment Situation

Resolution Regarding Faculty Grievance Appeal of Mr. Arthur E. Freedlender

Clinch Valley College:

Elections

Special Salary Action

Resignations

Appointments

Establishment of the Thomas C. Sorenson Professorship in Political and Social Thought

Establishment of the Theresa A. Thomas Professorship in Primary Care Nursing

Change in the Name of the Thomas A. Worrell, Jr. Eminent Scholars Research Professorship in Epileptology and Neurology

Change in the Name of the Distinguished Professorship in Plastic Surgery

Memorial Resolution for James L. Trinkle

Research Center Review

Resolution of Commendation to Mrs. Jordan Saunders

Approval of Increase in Per Share Income Distribution for Fiscal Year 1995-1996 for Growth and Income Fund (Consolidated Endowment) and Balanced Fund (Eminent Scholar)

Approval of Proposed Changes in Optional Retirement Plans

Amendment to the University of Virginia's Optional Retirement Plan Document

Approval of Salary Increases for Health Care Professionals

Approval for Health Care Professionals Paid-Time-Off Policy

Authorization of Transfer of Medical Center Funds for Investment in Healthcare Partners

Approval of the Architect Selection for the Campbell Hall Addition Project

Approval of Perpetual Right-of-Way and Easement for Adelphia Cable Communications across University of Virginia Property Located on the West Side of Alderman Road in Front of the Leake Building and Observatory Hill Dining Facility

Approval of Perpetual Right-of-Way and Easement for the Albemarle County Service Authority across University of Virginia Property Located on the North Side of U.S. Route 250 in Front of the Moser Radiation Therapy Center

Approval of the Revision of the Student Activity Fee Statement of Purpose and Funding Guidelines

Report on Actions Taken by the Executive Committee on September 8, 1995

Approval of Summary of Audit Reports

1995-1996 Salaries for President John T. Casteen, III and Chancellor L. Jay Lemons

Gifts, Grants and Contracts

Resolution of Commendation for Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. Scripps

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA November 11, 1995
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 11:00 a.m., on Friday, November 10, 1995, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Matthew W. Cooper, Warner N. Dalhouse, T. Keister Greer, Daniel A. Hoffler, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, Albert H. Small and Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 12:45 p.m., on Saturday, November 11, 1995, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Matthew W. Cooper, Warner N. Dalhouse, T. Keister Greer, Daniel A. Hoffler, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, Albert H. Small and Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of June 9-10, 1995, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all voting Visitors present: (a) That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending and potential litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 a. (7) of The Code of Virginia.(b) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and considering reports and recommendations of the University Auditor related to the recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, including Purchasing and Materials Services, NCAA Compliance, Football Game Settlements, Bursar Functions of the Integrated Student Information System, the Office of Career Planning and Placement, the School of Engineering and Applied Science, Pay of Pay Staffs, HSF Contracts, Psychiatric Medicine, the Medical Information System, Medical Center Computing - Network Operations, the Cost Accounting Management System, and the ITC Tape Library Follow-up, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 a. (1) of The Code of Virginia.(c) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia; as provided for in Section 2.1-344 a. (1) of The Code of Virginia.(d) That the External Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the discussion or consideration of matters relating to gifts, bequests, and fund-raising activities, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 a. (8) of The Code of Virginia.(e) That the Health Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing potential contractual and investment initiatives involving the Health Sciences Center, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 a. (3) (6) and (8) of The Code of Virginia.

Following Committee meetings and a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session of the full Board resumed at 12:45 p.m., on Saturday, November 11, 1995.

Elections
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. Reid B. Adams as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective August 16, 1995.Mr. Brent L. Arnold as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Julie Bargmann as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for three academic years, effective December 1, 1995.Ms. Margarida Maria Rodriques Barroso as Assistant Professor of Biology, for four academic years, effective September 1,.Mr. Craig E. Barton as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Dr. Colin B. Berry as Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, for one year, effective June 1, 1995.Dr. Stephen J. Bickston as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective August 1, 1995.Mr. Thomas A. Bloom as Associate Professor of Drama, effective September 1, 1995.Dr. David G. Brock as Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Mr. Simon F. Brown as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period August 28, 1995 through August 31, 1998.Mr. Leland W.K. Chung as Professor of Urology, effective October 1, 1995.Mr. Barry Cushman as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. Javier Duran Barcelo as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. John R. Elder as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1996.Ms. Clara Gimenez Fernandez as Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Katherine W. Ferrara as Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Ms. Leslee Anne Fisher as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Cassandra Fraser as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Lynda E. Frost as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period August 14, 1995 through June 30, 1998.Mr. Jose D. Fuentes as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Laura Galloway as Assistant Professor of Biology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Hope H. Glidden as Visiting Professor of French, for the period January 16, 1996 through May 31, 1996.Mr. Jonathan D. Haidt as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Dr. Jerry A. Hall as Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Mr. Jeffrey S. Hildner as Associate Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Eileen A. Hogan as Visiting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for the period July 1, 1995 through January 15, 1996.Mr. Mark S. Horner as Assistant Professor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Ms. Jane E. Ihrig as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Suzanne W. Jones as Visiting Associate Professor of English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1996.Mr. Chinghai Kao as Assistant Professor of Urology, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Dr. William T. Katz as Assistant Professor of Research in Neurosurgery, for one year, effective June 1, 1995.Dr. Elizabeth A. King as Assistant Professor of Clinical Family Medicine, for one year, effective August 1, 1995.Mr. Boris P. Kovatchev as Assistant Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine, for one year, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Patricia Kucker as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. Hui Liu as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three years, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. Steven R. Majewski as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. John E. Mason as Assistant Professor of History, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Margaret K. Mayer as Assistant Professor of Systems Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Karen J. McGlathery as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for four academic years, effective January 16, 1996.Mr. Mark M. McNabb as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1995.Dr. Virinder Nohria as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective October 1, 1995.Dr. Leslie A. Olsakovsky as Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Dr. Diane E. Pappas as Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Dr. Debra G. Perina as Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, for three years, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Vonda Powell as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Dr. Bruce E. Prum, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective August 1, 1995.Dr. Gary P. Rakes as Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Dr. Anne M. Ranney as Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Mr. Fraydoon Rastinejad as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective October 1, 1995.Dr. Tyvin A. Rich as Professor of Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology, effective September 1, 1995.Dr. Fidelma B. Rigby as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective August 21, 1995.Mr. Richard Rosa as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Sophia A. Rosenfeld as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. Michael G. Rukstad as Visiting Associate Professor of Business Administration, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Dvorit Samid as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. Thomas G. Schestag as Visiting Professor of German, for one semester, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. Robert A. Sikes as Assistant Professor of Urology, for three years, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. Ajay Skaria as Assistant Professor of History, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. Kotteazeth Srikumar as Visiting Assistant Professor of Research in Microbiology, for the period May 12, 1995 through August 31, 1995.Ms. Janet W. Stack as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Ann E. Sutherland as Assistant Professor of Cell Biology, for three years, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. Suren A. Tatulian as Assistant Professor of Research in Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, for one year, effective July 1, 1995.Dr. Dan Theodorescu as Assistant Professor of Urology, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Dr. Alain Thibault as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Mr. Alessandro Vettori as Acting Assistant Professor of Italian, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. Ibrahim Juma Wani as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Haiyen E. Zhau as Associate Professor of Urology, effective September 1, 1995.

Actions Relating to Chairholders
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of Chairholder(s)Dr. Bruce G. Bateman as Chairholder of the Mamie A. Jessup Professorship in Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective July 1, 1995. Dr. Bateman will continue as Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without term.Mr. Tim Bollerslev as Commonwealth Professor of Economics, effective January 16, 1996.Mr. Richard C. Collins as Lawrence Lewis, Jr. Professor of Architecture, effective September 1, 1995.Dr. Bruce D. Schirmer as Stephen H. Watts Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1995.Mr. Alexander Sedgwick as University Professor, effective October 1, 1995.Dr. Craig L. Slingluff, Jr. as Chairholder of the Joseph Helms Farrow Professorship in Surgical Oncology, effective July 3, 1995. Dr. Slingluff will continue as Associate Professor of Surgery, without term.Mr. Robert E. Spekman as Alumni Research Professor of Business Administration, for three years, effective September 1, 1995. Mr. Spekman will continue as Professor of Business Administration, without term.(b) Promotions of Chairholder(s)Dr. William D. Steers from Chairholder of the Jay Y. Gillenwater Professorship in Urology and Associate Professor in Urology to Jay Y. Gillenwater Professor of Urology, effective July 1, 1995.(c) Changes of Title of Chairholder(s)Dr. James E. Ferguson, II from Chairholder of the Mamie A. Jessup Professorship in Obstetrics and Gynecology and Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Chairholder of the John M. Nokes Professorship in Obstetrics and Gynecology and Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective July 1, 1995.Mr. William L. Miller from Commonwealth Professor of Political and Social Thought to Commonwealth Professor and Thomas C. Sorensen Professor of Political and Social Thought, effective September 1, 1995.(d) Special Salary Action of Chairholders deleted(e) Resignations of Chairholder(s)The following resignations were announced:Ms. Maryse Conde Philcox, University Professor, effective May 31, 1995, to accept another position.Mr. Carl W. Stenberg, III, Distinguished Professor for the Director of the Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service, effective October 1, 1995, to accept another position.(f) Retirements of Chairholder(s)

The following retirement was announced: Mr. Harry W. Porter, Jr., Lawrence Lewis, Jr. Professor of Architecture, effective June 30, 1995. Mr. Porter has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1969.

Promotions
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members are hereby promoted:Dr. Christopher J. Bowden from Instructor in Clinical Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Dr. Patricia L. Foley from Lecturer in Medical Education, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Medical Education, for two years, effective July 1, 1995.Mr. David B. Mattern from Assistant Professor, General Faculty to Associate Professor, General Faculty, for two years, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. Shelton R. Taylor from Research Assistant Professor of Materials Science to Research Associate Professor of Materials Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. Christopher J. Wingard from Instructor of Research in Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics to Assistant Professor of Research in Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, for one year, effective July 1, 1995.

Changes of Title
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title are hereby made:Dr. Willie A. Andersen from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for two years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Francis J. Bourgeois from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. H. Robert Brashear, III from Associate Professor of Neurology, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Charles T. Carter from Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Dennis L. DeSilvey from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1995.Mr. Robert Diamond from Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine, for two years, effective July 1, 1995.Dr. Ted R. Galbraith from Assistant Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Clinical Dentistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Mr. Pablo R. Grigera from Visiting Assistant Professor of Microbiology to Visiting Assistant Professor of Research in Microbiology, for one year, effective September 1, 1995.Dr. Andrew T. Guertler from Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Brian C. Hoard from Associate Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Clinical Dentistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Dr. Marguerite C. Lippert from Associate Professor of Urology, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Urology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Robert J. Pafford from Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Medical Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Ms. Ayse Pamuk from Lecturer in Urban and Environmental Planning to Assistant Professor of Urban and Environmental Planning, for two years, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. Todd E. Peterson from Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics to Research Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for the period September 1, 1995 through May 31, 1997.Dr. Barbara T. Post from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Ms. Nancy F. Santilli from Associate Professor of Neurology, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Clinical Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Dr. Diane G. Snustad from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Dr. Joel M. Trugman from Associate Professor of Neurology, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Kelly L. Vollmer from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for one year, effective August 1, 1995.Dr. George W. Ward, Jr. from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1995.Dr. Andrew Wolf from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period July 1, 1995 through September 12, 1996.Dr. Andrew M. Woods from Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.

Special Salary Actions deletedResignations
------------------------------------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Christopher M. Asplin, Associate Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, effective August 7, 1995, to accept another position.Mr. Michael D. Bills, Assistant Professor of Commerce, effective August 31, 1995, to accept another position.Dr. Mark A. Brown, Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, effective July 3, 1995, to accept another position.Mr. Larry E. Decker, Professor of Education, effective August 31, 1995, to accept another position.Dr. David S. Fedson, Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1995, to accept another position.Dr. Keith E. Griffin, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective August 31, 1995, to accept another position.Ms. C. Lynn Lawson, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective August 31, 1995, to accept another position.Dr. Robert B. Lechner, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, effective June 30, 1995, to enter private practice.Mr. James J. Mingle, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective August 6, 1995, to accept another position.Dr. Daniel P. Moore, Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, effective June 19, 1995, for personal reasons.Mr. Philip M. Nowlen, Professor, General Faculty, effective September 30, 1995, to accept another position.Mr. Eugene J. Olmi, III, Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective August 31, 1995, to accept another position.Mr. Thomas J. Olson, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, effective July 1, 1995, to accept another position.Dr. Stephen V. Scoper, Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, effective June 30, 1995, to accept another position.Dr. Mark E. Shaffrey, Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurosurgery, effective June 30, 1995, for personal reasons.Mr. Jonathan S. Skinner, Professor of Economics, effective May 31, 1995, to accept another position.Mr. Kotteazeth Srikumar, Visiting Assistant Professor of Research in Microbiology, effective August 12, 1995, for personal reasons.Dr. Joseph A. Stirt, Associate Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, effective July 31, 1995, for personal reasons.Mr. David L. Stokes, Assistant Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, effective September 15, 1995, to accept another position.Dr. Richard A. Tomasulo, Assistant Professor of Research in Neurology, effective July 31, 1995, to accept another position.Mr. Christopher L. Vaughan, Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, effective August 31, 1995, to accept another position.Dr. Mary C. Wimer, Assistant Professor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine, effective August 31, 1995, for personal reasons.

Retirements
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Ronald C. Adams, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective June 6, 1995. Mr. Adams has been a member of the faculty since November 17, 1964.Ms. Anne E.H. Freudenberg, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective July 31, 1995. Ms. Freudenberg has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1956.Dr. Robert C. Patten, Professor of Clinical Family Medicine, effective September 30, 1995. Dr. Patten has been a member of the faculty since January 1, 1980.Mr. Fred D. Rosi, Research Professor of Materials Science, effective June 30, 1995. Mr. Rosi has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1985.Mr. Eugene R. Seeloff, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective July 1, 1995. Mr. Seeloff has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1989.

Appointments
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Simon F. Brown as Director, Equal Opportunity Programs/Affirmative Action, for the period August 28, 1995 through August 31, 1998.Ms. Barbara J. Deily as Director of Audits, for five years, effective September 15, 1992.Mr. John W. Garland as Acting Director, Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service, for the period September 1, 1995 through June 30, 1996.Ms. Shirley L. Menaker as Associate Provost for Academic Support and Classroom Management, for five years, effective July 1, 1995.Ms. Sondra F. Stallard as Acting Dean, Division of Continuing Education, for the period September 1, 1995 to June 30, 1997.Ms. Martha W. Stuart as Assistant to the Associate Provost for Academic Support and Classroom Management, for the period September 20, 1995 through June 30, 1998.

Re-appointments
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Jr. as University History Officer, for one year, effective January 1, 1996.Mr. Gordon C. Burris as Special Assistant to the President, for five years, effective November 1, 1995.Ms. Barbara J. Deily as Director of Audits, for five years, effective August 1, 1995.Ms. Carolyn L. Engelhard as Executive Director, Virginia Health Policy Research Center, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Ms. Marcia D. Finney as Special Assistant to the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Ms. Susan G. Harris as Assistant to the General Counsel, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Ms. Beth C. Hodsdon as Associate General Counsel, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Mr. Jules I. Levine as Associate Vice President for Health Sciences, Facilities and Planning, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Ms. Margaret W. Rose as Assistant to the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.Ms. Linda A. Watson as Director, Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for five years, effective May 1, 1995.

Election of Professors Emeriti
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person(s) is/are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Harry W. Porter, Jr., Lawrence Lewis, Jr. Professor of Architecture, effective June 30, 1995.

Deaths
------

CHANGE IN THE RETIREMENT OF MR. STAFFORD G. JOHNSTON
----------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the retirement of Mr. Stafford G. Johnston, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 31, 1995, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of June 10, 1995, will be changed to read as follows:

CHANGE IN THE CHANGE OF TITLE OF MR. STEPHEN N. MACCIOCCHI
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the change of title of Mr. Stephen N. Macciocchi from Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, for three years, effective August 1, 1994, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of November 12, 1994, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Stephen N. Macciocchi from Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.

ELECTION OF DR. ROBERT W. CANTRELL AS VICE PRESIDENT AND PROVOST FOR HEALTH SCIENCES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Dr. Robert W. Cantrell is hereby elected as Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences, for five years, effective January 1, 1996.

RE-ELECTION OF MR. LEONARD W. SANDRIDGE, JR. AS EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr. is hereby reelected as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, for five years, effective July 1, 1995.

APPROVAL OF REPORTING RELATIONSHIPS AND SUPERVISORY STRUCTURE FOR DUAL EMPLOYMENT SITUATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the reporting relationship and supervisory structure for Judith Kinnard, Associate Professor of Architecture shall be as follows:

All decisions regarding teaching assignments, salary, promotion, or leaves of absence for Judith Kinnard will be handled by Peter Waldman, Chair of the Department of Architecture, and William A. McDonough, Dean of the School of Architecture. Peter Waldman reports to Dean McDonough. Kenneth Schwartz, Associate Dean of the School of Architecture, will in no way exercise control over decisions affecting his wife, Judith Kinnard, nor will he supervise, evaluate, or otherwise participate in personnel decisions affecting her.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEElections
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected to the faculty:Ms. Charlotte F. Chase as Associate Professor of Nursing, Clinch Valley College, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Laura H.B. Miller as Assistant Professor of Theatre, Clinch Valley College, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Lori J. Starnes as Assistant Professor of Nursing, Clinch Valley College, for two years, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. Gary R. Stratton as Assistant Professor of Economics, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1995.Ms. Catana L. Turner as Assistant Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1995.

Special Salary Actions deletedResignations
------------------------------------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Robert J. Cantrell, Assistant Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1995, to accept another position.Mr. David L. Kendall, Professor of Economics, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1995, to accept another position.

Appointments
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. John G. Blackburn as Associate Provost and Dean of the Faculty, Clinch Valley College, for three years, effective August 1, 1995.Mr. George E. Culbertson as Provost and Senior Vice Chancellor, Clinch Valley College, for three years, effective July 1, 1995.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE THOMAS C. SORENSEN PROFESSORSHIP IN POLITICAL AND SOCIAL THOUGHT
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the College of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Thomas C. Sorensen Professorship in Political and Social Thought. The Board is grateful to Mr. Thomas C. Sorensen who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE THERESA A. THOMAS PROFESSORSHIP IN PRIMARY CARE NURSING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Nursing a Chair to be known as the Theresa A. Thomas Professorship in Primary Care Nursing. The Board is grateful to the Theresa A. Thomas Memorial Foundation which made the establishment of this Chair possible.

CHANGE IN THE NAME OF THE THOMAS E. WORRELL, JR., EMINENT SCHOLARS RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN EPILEPTOLOGY AND NEUROLOGY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Chair previously established in the School of Medicine as the Thomas E. Worrell, Jr., Eminent Scholars Research Professorship in Epileptology and Neurology is changed to the Thomas E. Worrell, Jr., Professorship in Epileptology and Neurology. The Board is grateful to Mr. Thomas E. Worrell, Jr., who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

CHANGE IN THE NAME OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN PLASTIC SURGERY
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Chair previously established in the School of Medicine as the Distinguished Professorship in Plastic Surgery is changed to the Raymond F. Morgan Professorship in Plastic Surgery. The Board is grateful to the University of Virginia Medical School Foundation which made the establishment of this Chair possible.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR JAMES L. TRINKLE
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, James Lewis Trinkle was born in Roanoke on April 2, 1929; andWHEREAS, Mr. Trinkle took a B.A. from Hampden-Sydney College in 1950, and a law degree from the University of Virginia in 1953; andWHEREAS, Mr. Trinkle was a civic leader of great accomplishment in Roanoke, much respected in his community and throughout the Commonwealth; andWHEREAS, Mr. Trinkle was President of the Alumni Association in 1967-1968, and a member of the Board of Visitors of the University from 1982 to 1990, rendering particularly valuable service as Chair of the Educational Policy Committee; andWHEREAS, Mr. Trinkle died on October 13, 1995;RESOLVED, The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia expresses gratitude for the life and accomplishments of James Lewis Trinkle, particularly his service as a member of the Board, takes note with sorrow of his passing, and expresses its deepest sympathy to his family.

RESEARCH CENTER REVIEW
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Diabetes Research Center (the Virginia Center for Diabetes Professional Education) of the University of Virginia has the endorsement of the Board and its approval for continuation of its exemplary work, at current funding levels and sources.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION TO MRS. JORDAN SAUNDERS
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Mary Jordan Horner Saunders has given tirelessly and unselfishly of her time and her expertise to the planning of the Capital Campaign; andWHEREAS, Mrs. Saunders organized the gala dinner which was held on The Lawn on the night of October 7, 1995, a dinner so splendid that it will be remembered long hence in the annals of the University of Virginia; andWHEREAS, Mrs. Saunders and her husband, Thomas A. Saunders, III, gave generously of their own resources for the dinner;RESOLVED, The Board of Visitors extends its compliments to Mrs. Saunders for the magnificent success of the dinner, thanks her for her planning and hard work in organizing the dinner, and thanks Mr. and Mrs. Saunders for their generosity and devotion to the University.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN PER SHARE INCOME DISTRIBUTION FOR FISCAL YEAR 1995-1996 FOR GROWTH & INCOME FUND (CONSOLIDATED ENDOWMENT) AND BALANCED FUND (EMINENT SCHOLAR)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be authorized to increase the Growth & Income Fund per share income distribution for Fiscal Year 1995-1996, by four percent over the amount distributed for Fiscal Year 1994-1995, for a per share income distribution of $44.27, for Fiscal Year 1995-1996;RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be authorized to distribute $17.52 per share as the Balanced Fund income distribution for Fiscal Year 1995-1996.

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED CHANGES IN OPTIONAL RETIREMENT PLANS
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the optional retirement plans provided by the Teachers Insurance Annuity Association and the College Retirement Equities Fund (TIAA/CREF), Fidelity, T. Rowe Price, Variable Life Insurance Company (VALIC), and the Great West Life Insurance Company are the principal providers of retirement plans for the University of Virginia faculty; andWHEREAS, these providers, in accordance with the Internal Revenue Service regulations, provide an option permitting full or partial withdrawals for participants prior to full retirement; andWHEREAS, the University has a phased retirement plan which permits faculty to partially retire over a five-year period; andWHEREAS, the University desires to offer its participating faculty flexibility in using their retirement accumulations when they have signed a phase retirement contract;RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to amend the University of Virginia's contracts with the optional retirement carriers to provide that, effective January 1, 1996, current and prospective University faculty who participate in an optional retirement plan, who are at least age 59 1/2, and who have begun a phased retirement under a signed contract with the University in which they commit to retire completely by a specific date, may elect to withdraw from their accounts any or all funds eligible for withdrawal that have accumulated during University employment.

AMENDMENT TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S OPTIONAL RETIREMENT PLAN DOCUMENT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Federal Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) of 1993, imposed a cap on the amount of salary that may be considered for determining employer contributions for retirement plans; andWHEREAS, a transition rule for governmental plans permitted an extension of the implementation date until January 1, 1996; andWHEREAS, the University's Optional Retirement Plan Document does not currently contain a contribution limit based on a salary maximum and the plan may continue the current provisions for all participants who are plan members on December 31, 1995; andWHEREAS, participants whose effective date is on or following January 1, 1996, will be subject to the $150,000 salary maximum on employer contribution for retirement plans;RESOLVED that the University's Optional Retirement Program Plan Document, as amended to reflect the Internal Revenue Service language pertaining to OBRA 93, be approved, effective January 1, 1996.

APPROVAL OF SALARY INCREASES FOR HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, legislation enacted by the 1990 General Assembly authorized the Board of Visitors to establish competitive compensation programs for Health Care Professionals employed by the University of Virginia Medical Center; andWHEREAS, the Department of Human Resources conducted its semi-annual compensation survey of comparable hospitals in the Northeast, Southeast, and Midwest; andWHEREAS, the survey results illustrate that compensation for University of Virginia Health Care Professionals is below the compensation provided for in similar positions at the hospitals surveyed;RESOLVED that the salary increases for Health Care Professionals (See Attachment A), be approved, subject to the concurrence of the Secretary of Education of the Commonwealth of Virginia, to become effective on or after December 3, 1995.

APPROVAL FOR HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS PAID-TIME-OFF POLICY
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the proposed Paid-Time-Off Policy for full-time and part-time Health Care professionals employed by the University of Virginia Medical Center (See Attachment B) be approved, subject to the concurrence of the Secretary of Education of the Commonwealth of Virginia, to become effective on or after January 1, 1996.

AUTHORIZATION OF TRANSFER OF MEDICAL CENTER FUNDS FOR INVESTMENT IN HEALTHCARE PARTNERS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, The Board of Visitors approved establishment and incorporation of HealthCare Partners, a joint venture between the University of Virginia Medical Center and the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation; andWHEREAS, the Medical Center holds an eighty percent interest and the Health Services Foundation a twenty percent interest; andWHEREAS, The Board in April 1995 approved an initial investment by the Medical Center in HealthCare Partners of $4,000,000; andWHEREAS, the HealthCare Partners board of directors has approved a 1995-1996 budget of $10,000,000, subject to approval by the Board of Visitors;RESOLVED that The Board of Visitors, upon recommendation of the Health Affairs Committee, authorizes transfer of an additional $4,000,000, in Medical Center funds to HealthCare Partners, bringing the Medical Center's total investment to date in this joint venture to $8,000,000.

APPROVAL OF THE ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE CAMPBELL HALL ADDITION PROJECT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Steven Holl Architects P.C., is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Campbell Hall Addition Project.

APPROVAL OF PERPETUAL RIGHT-OF-WAY AND EASEMENT FOR ADELPHIA CABLE COMMUNICATIONS ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY LOCATED ON THE WEST SIDE OF ALDERMAN ROAD IN FRONT OF THE LEAKE BUILDING AND OBSERVATORY HILL DINING FACILITY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated October 30, 1995, between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Adelphia Cable Communications, which dedicates to public use a strip of land 30 feet wide, located adjacent to Alderman Road, in front of the Leake Building and Observatory Hill Dining Facility, and owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said deed of easement.

APPROVAL OF PERPETUAL RIGHT-OF-WAY AND EASEMENT FOR THE ALBEMARLE COUNTY SERVICE AUTHORITY ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY LOCATED ON THE NORTH SIDE OF U.S. ROUTE 250 IN FRONT OF THE MOSER RADIATION THERAPY CENTER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated October 16, 1995, between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the Albemarle County Service Authority, which dedicates to public use a strip of land 30 feet wide by 40 feet long, located in front of the Moser Center, and owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said deed of easement.

APPROVAL OF THE REVISION OF THE STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND FUNDING GUIDELINES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Student Activities Committee shall be charged with the authority and responsibility, under the President, for supervision of the Student Activities Fees. With respect to the purpose of an allocation from the Fund, unless otherwise directed by the President, the procedures shall be as follows:The procedures referred to in the resolution above are embodied in three resolutions adopted by the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee (see Minutes of the meeting of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, dated November 10, 1995).

REPORT ON ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON SEPTEMBER 8, 1995
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer reported on the following actions taken by the Executive Committee at its meeting on September 8, 1995:

a. Approval of Police Mutual Aid Agreement with the City of Charlottesville and Albemarle County

b. Easements for Construction of the Northern Virginia Education Center

c. Reallocation of General Obligation Bond Authorization From the Zehmer Building Renovation Project to the Education and Development Center Project at Clinch Valley College

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period May 1, 1995 through September 30, 1995, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

1995-1996 SALARIES FOR PRESIDENT JOHN T. CASTEEN, III, AND CHANCELLOR L. JAY LEMONS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia approves the 1995-96 salary recommendations for the President of the University of Virginia and the Chancellor of Clinch Valley College consistent with The Appropriations Act;BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia attest to their positive evaluation of the performances of President John T. Casteen, III, and Chancellor L. Jay Lemons.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported on gifts, grants and contracts. The Report was accepted by the Board.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT
-----------------------

The President told the Board that the University is considering the establishment of an alcohol and other drug testing policy for certain health care providers. Most academic medical centers and a number of other employers, including the Martha Jefferson Hospital in Charlottesville, have drug testing policies of one sort or another in place. The University's plan would be to develop a policy to institute alcohol and drug testing at pre-employment and for cause. The President said the Board would be kept informed as the policy is developed.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION FOR MR. AND MRS. EDWARD W. SCRIPPS
-------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Betty Knight Scripps gave generously of her time and resources to help make the Campaign Kickoff Weekend a success; andWHEREAS, Mrs. Scripps and her husband, Edward W. Scripps, gave lunch to the Lawn Society and other special friends of the University at their house, "Eagle Hill," in Albemarle County on October 6, 1995; andWHEREAS, Mr. and Mrs. Scripps' guests were entertained splendidly in a setting that was magnificent not only for its pastoral beauty but for its glorious views of the Blue Ridge Mountains; andWHEREAS, Mr. and Mrs. Scripps have been generous in their benefactions to the University, particularly to the School of Medicine;RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors thank Betty Knight Scripps for her untiring work on behalf of the Capital Campaign, compliments Mr. and Mrs. Scripps for the success of their luncheon, and thanks them for their hospitality, generosity and interest in the University of Virginia.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 1:15 p.m.

AGG:jb

ATTACHMENT A 1995 HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS (HCPs) -- SALARY INCREASES
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The proposed effective date of the HCP structure adjustment is December 3, 1995. This date coincides with the beginning of a biweekly payroll period.

The proposed structure (range) adjustment for the majority of HCP classes is 2.25 percent.

HCPs will not receive across-the-board salary increases this year. The 2.25 percent will be pooled by Medical Center budget units and awarded based on merit using a variable pay plan.

This merit plan will allow for variable pay increases from 0 percent to 10 percent staying within the total allotted 2.25 percent dollars. HCPs rated higher on individual performance evaluations must receive a higher percentage merit increase than those rated lower.

Three class series will have from 7 percent to 10 percent adjustments to implement a new clinical ladder for the following health care groups: physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech pathology and audiology. The three groups have been identified as lagging further behind market rates and the Medical Center is vulnerable to the loss of these essential employees.

The proposed structure adjustments are based on the semi-annual salary survey dated the spring of 1995 that the Department of Human Resources conducts of comparable health care institutions.

ATTACHMENT B UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Human Resource Policies and ProceduresBiweekly Accruals in HOURS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Years of Service as of December 31

Biweekly Accruals

Maximum Annual Accrual

Annual Cash out

0 - 5

9.231

240

70

5 - 10

10.154

264

90

10 - 19

11.693

304

100

20+

12.308

320

120

ISSUED BY:

Department of Human Resources

ISSUE DATE:

January 1, 1996

SUPERSEDES:

NA

SUBJECT: Paid-Time-Off (PTO) Policy

APPLICABLE TO: All Salaried Health Care Professionals

POLICY:

It is the policy of the University to apply the paid-time-off leave model commonly used in the health care industry to its salaried health care professional staff.

GENERAL INFORMATION:

The Paid-Time-Off (PTO) leave program provides employees with leave hours to be used for approved absences from work. Employees on or after January 1, 1996 receive PTO. Employees working before that date will convert to PTO.

PTO is a flexible leave program which allows employees to use PTO hours for any reason as vacation, a holiday, illness, to care for sick children or other family members, to take care of personal business, etc. The PTO program permits employees to plan time off to better meet their personal needs. Usage of PTO hours require employees to coordinate time off with the immediate supervisor and request must comply with established department procedures and policies for time away from work.

Administrative leave, military leave, Family Medical leave and Educational leave are not part of this policy.

DEFINITIONS:

Paid-Time-Off (PTO):

Leave time which may be used for any purpose to include vacation, personal and family illnesses, holidays, etc.

PTO Current Account:

Employee leave account into which leave hours accrue each pay period and from which leave may be used for any purpose. Annual leave balances up to one hundred and sixty (160) hours can be rolled into the PTO current account at time of conversion to PTO leave program.

PTO Plan Year:

Twelve month period from the first pay period beginning in January to the last pay period beginning in December, during which leave hours accumulate in an employees current account.

Catastrophic Leave:

Employee leave account from which hours may be used for illnesses or disability after 40 consecutive hours in a year have been charged to the PTO Current Account. Created from the transfer of Sick Leave balances at time of conversion to the PTO Current Account. This account is created from the transfer of Sick leave balances at time of conversion to the PTO leave program or the employee electing to transfer annual or PTO hours into the account. Sick hours transferred to this account at time of conversion will not have a limit. Annual hours and PTO hours transferred to this account after conversion will be limited by a balance in this account of Six (6) Pay Periods (480 hours).

Cash Out:

Employees who stand to lose PTO leave at the end of a plan year because of excess balances or otherwise may chose to elect a cash-out one time per calendar year. The cash-out will be paid at 100 percent of value, but can not exceed the maximum amount stated in the chart below per years of service.

PROCEDURE:

Incumbent Employee and Employees transferring after July 1, 1995

Employees will not lose any accrued balances on hand at time of enrollment in the PTO leave program. At time of conversion accrued leave will be deposited into accounts as follows:

 A Maximum of one hundred and sixty (160) hours of Annual or Compensatory leave may be deposited into the PTO Current Account available for immediate use.

 Remaining balances of annual or compensatory leave in excess of the 160 hours can be transferred to the Catastrophic leave balance up to a Maximum of Six Pay Periods (480 hours). If the employee does not elect to transfer hours to the Catastrophic leave account the remaining annual and compensatory leave will be paid out at time of conversion.

 All Sick Leave Balances will be deposited into the Catastrophic Illness Bank. Twenty-five percent (25 percent) of catastrophic balance in this account will be paid upon termination of employment if employee has five (5) or more years of continuous service up to a maximum payout of $5,000.

 PTO will accrue to the PTO Current Account biweekly.

 At the end of the program year, last pay period beginning in December, PTO accruals can carry over to the next PTO program year up to a maximum of 160 hours. Hours can also be transferred into the Catastrophic Illness Bank up to the maximum of 480 hours, or cashed-out up to the maximum allowable.

Employees Hired after the Effective Date of This Policy (Including Other State Agency Employees):

 Accrued time will be deposited into one account, the PTO Account.

 All leave, except Sick Leave (employees transferring from other agencies), must be paid by the prior employing agency prior to employment at the Medical Center. Sick Leave balances will he deposited into the Catastrophic Illness Bank.

 PTO will accrue to the PTO Current Account biweekly.

 At the end of the program year, (last pay period beginning in December), PTO accruals can carry over to the next program year up to a maximum of 160 hours. Hours can also be transferred into the Catastrophic Illness Bank up to the maximum of 480 hours at the election of the employee.

 Catastrophic Illness Bank: Twenty-five percent (25 percent) of Catastrophic balance in this account will be paid upon termination of employment if employee has five (5) or more years of continuous service up to a maximum payout of $5,000.

PTO ACCRUALS:

The following schedule reflects accrued leave entitlement under the PTO leave program. These hours incorporate sick leave, annual leave, school leave and holiday leave hours.

Biweekly Accruals in HOURSYears of Service as of December 31Biweekly AccrualsMaximum Annual AccrualAnnual Cash out0 - 59.231240705 - 1010.1542649010 - 1911.69330410020+12.308320120

Additional Holiday hours declared by the Governor will be added to the PTO Current Account.

Part-time employees accrue PTO in proportion to the full-time equivalent of employment and years of service.

Situations affecting PTO Accruals:

Leave-with Pay:

Accruals will continue while on leave with pay until sixty (60) calendar days of paid leave have expired.

Leave without Pay:

PTO accruals will cease when an employee is on leave without pay and will not be earned until employee returns to work for a full biweekly pay period.

Docking Situations:

Docking of less than fourteen (14) calendar days will not affect PTO accruals. After 14 calendar days employee should be placed on leave without pay and accruals will cease.

PTO Loan Hours:

Employees can be "Loaned" up to Forty (40) PTO hours to cover time off for which they do not have enough PTO hours. Loaned hours will be repaid automatically by the PTO leave program as PTO hours are accrued. If an employee terminates and there are unpaid "Loaned" PTO hours employee will have to repay "Loaned" hours. The Catastrophic Illness Bank will he reduced by the "Loaned" hours prior to calculating the pay out of the Catastrophic balance.

PTO Usage:

PTO Current Account:

Hours in the PTO Current Account may be used for any purpose such as illness (personal or family), vacation, holidays, personal business, etc.

Request for usage must comply with established departmental polices and procedures.

Catastrophic Leave Account:

Hours in this account may be used for personal illness or disability after employee has charged 40 consecutive hours in a year to the PTO Current Account,

A Catastrophic leave request form must be provided to the immediate supervisor in order to use these hours.

The employee can elect to have PTO hours transferred into this account at end of program year. PTO hours transferred to this account will be limited by a balance in this account of Six (6) Pay Periods (480 hours).

Hours remaining in PTO account greater than 160 that are not cashed-out or transferred to the Catastrophic account at end of program year will be lost.

Annual Cash Out:

PTO leave can be Cashed Out once per calendar year up to the maximum Cash Out per years of service; provided employees PTO Current Account balance does not go below Zero (O) hours.

The Cash Out will be included in the First Pay Check received in December.

A PTO Cash Out Request form must be completed, submitted and received by the Payroll Department no later than October 31 of each plan year.

ISSUED BY:Department of Human ResourcesISSUE DATE:January 1, 1996SUPERSEDES:NA

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: November 11, 1995

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 16

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 1

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 1

NAME

VOTE

COMMENTS

yes or no

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

John P. Ackerly, III

yes

Franklin K. Birckhead

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

absent

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

yes

T. Keister Greer

yes

Daniel A. Hoffler

yes

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

C. Wilson McNeely, III

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Albert H. Small

yes

Elizabeth A. Twohy

yes

Matthew W. Cooper

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on November 11, 1995 a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTECOMMENTSyes or noHovey S. DabneyyesJohn P. Ackerly, IIIyesFranklin K. BirckheadyesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.absentMortimer M. CaplinyesCharles M. Caravati, Jr.yesWarner N. DalhouseyesT. Keister GreeryesDaniel A. HoffleryesMrs. Elsie Goodwyn HollandyesEvans B. JesseeyesArnold H. LeonyesC. Wilson McNeely, IIIyesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesAlbert H. SmallyesElizabeth A. TwohyyesMatthew W. Cooperyes