 TEI to HTML

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS June 14-15, 1996
-------------------------------------------------------------

Election of the Executive Committee

Memorial Resolution for Glenn B. Updike, Jr.

Establishment of the Becton Dickinson Professorship in Health Care Worker Safety

Establishment of the Horace W. Goldsmith Distinguished Teaching Professorship in the Humanities

Approval to Increase the Number of Members of the Miller Center Council

Establishment of the Master of Science Degree in Biological and Physical Sciences

Approval to Accept Proposals Recommended for Funding Academic Enhancement

Approval to Allow the University of Virginia Foundation or its Subsidiaries to Provide Gift Annuities to Donors

Approval to Invest an Additional $2,500,000 on Behalf of the Medical Center in Blue Ridge Health Alliance, Inc., and to Amend Corporate Documents

Approval of Audit Schedule for Fiscal Year 1996-97

Approval of Summary of Audit Findings

Approval of the Architectual Design Guidelines for the Construction of the Health Sciences Center East Parking Garage

Approval of Preliminary Design for the Construction of the Emergency Operations Center

Approval of the Architect Selection for the Elson Student Health Center Addition

Approval of the Engineer Selection for the Carr's Hill Electric Upgrade

Approval of Permanent and Temporary Easements for the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation, Inc., and Permanent Easement for Virginia Electric and Power Company Across University of Virginia Land Located at Blue Ridge Hospital

Approval of Permanent Easement for City of Charlottesville Gas Division Across University of Virginia Land Located at 2504 Stadium Road

Approval of Dedication to Public Use of a Strip of University Land and Permanent Easements for Sprint-Centel and the City of Charlottesville Gas Division on University Land in the Vicinity of Rugby Road

Approval of Contruction Easement for Virginia Oil Company Across University of Virginia Land at the Intersection of Millmont Street and Barracks Road

Approval of the Renaming of the Perry Foundation Courts

Approval of the Naming of the Counseling Center

Approval of the Naming of the New Residence Hall

Approval of the 1996-97 Budget for the Academic Division

Approval of the 1996-97 Budget for Clinch Valley College

Approval of the 1996-97 Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center

Approval of the 1996-97 Budget of Funds From the Pratt Estate for the School of Medicine and Specific Departments in the College of Arts and Sciences

Approval of the Compensation Plan for Medical Center Employees

Approval of the Faculty Salary Schedule for the Academic Division and Clinch Valley College, 1996-97

Approval of the University of Virginia Policy Statement Governing Exercise of Post-appropriation Autonomy for Certain Non-General Fund Capital Projects

Approval of the University of Virginia Policy Statement Governing Exercise of Autonomy in Leases of Property

Approval of the University of Virginia Policy Statement Governing Exercise of Procurement Autonomy by the University on Behalf of the Medical Center

Approval of the University of Virginia Policy Statement Governing Exercise of Medical Center Personnel Autonomy

Thomas Jefferson Regional Economic Development Partnership, Inc.

Approval of the Assignment of the Upper Apartment, Pavilion VIII

Approval of the Assignment of the Lower Apartment, Pavilion VIII

Approval of a Revision of the Advisory Council By-Laws, Clinch Valley College

Faculty Personnel Actions:

Elections to Faculty

Election of Chairholders

Promotions of Chairholders

Changes of Title of Chairholders

Retirements of Chairholders

Promotions

Changes of Title

Resignations

Retirement

Appointment

Re-appointments

Election of Professors Emeriti

Election of Associate Professor Emeritus

Change in the Election of Mr. Kim Abubakar Forde-Mazrui

Change in the Retirement of Mr. Bruce A. Chartres

Termination of Douglas B. Smith

Re-election of Mr. Robert D. Sweeney as Vice President for Development

Promotions, Clinch Valley College

TENTATIVE MINUTES - SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA June 14-15, 1996
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 7:55 a.m., on Friday, June 14, 1996, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Sean N. Bryant, Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Albert H. Small, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy and Henry L. Valentine, II. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, Don E. Detmer, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 12:00 noon, on Saturday, June 15, 1996, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Sean N. Bryant, Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Albert H. Small, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy and Henry L. Valentine, II. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Richard Kast, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

CORRECTION TO THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, DATED APRIL 11-12, 1996
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Resolution, "Approval of the Revision of the Student Activity Fee Statement of Purpose and Funding Guidelines," adopted by the full Board on April 12, 1996, was adopted in error. The Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, meeting earlier that day, had decided, on advice of the General Counsel, that it was not necessary at the time to adopt this Resolution, even though it was listed on the Agenda; the Committee thus did not forward the Resolution to the full Board for approval.

The corrected Minutes of the Board meeting of April 11-12, therefore, should not contain the Resolution listed on pp. 5145 through 5151.

The Minutes of the meeting of April 11-12, 1996, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all voting Visitors present:

That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of The Code of Virginia.

That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and considering reports and recommendations of the University Auditor related to the recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, including Parking and Transportation Towing Operations, the Health Sciences Center Time and Attendance System, Virginia Engineering Foundation, NCAA, and the Office of International Studies, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of The Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending and potential litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(7) of The Code of Virginia.

Following an Executive Session of the full Board and Committee meetings on Friday, June 14, 1996, and a recess for an Executive Session of the Board on June 15, the full Board resumed in Open Session at 12:00 noon, on Saturday, June 15, 1996.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT
-----------------------

The President reported that on June 8, Oxford University conferred the D.Litt.--Doctor of Letters--on former President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr. Three of his daughters, two sons-in-law, and several grandchildren accompanied him to England for the ceremony.

The D.Litt. is a rare academic distinction, different from both "regular" earned degrees and the common honorary degree. Its purpose is to recognize the most distinguished lifetime scholarship among Oxford degree-holders, an academic career award. The requirement for selection is "an original contribution to the advancement of knowledge of such substance and distinction as to give the candidate authoritative status in some branch or branches of learning".

Mr. Shannon is a noted scholar in 19th century English literature. His principal works fall in three categories: critical writings on the novel, bibliographical studies, and works on Lord Tennyson and his times.

Mr. Shannon studied at Merton College, Oxford, as a Rhodes Scholar from Virginia, earning his doctoral degree (D.Phil.) in 1949.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of The Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1991, the following members were elected to the Executive Committee of the Board to serve until the Annual Meeting in June 1997:

Mr. Hovey S. Dabney, Chair

Mr. Mortimer M. Caplin

Dr. Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

Mr. William H. Goodwin, Jr.

Mr. C. Wilson McNeely, III

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESAUDIT COMMITTEEBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEEXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEEFINANCE COMMITTEEHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the Standing Committees to serve until the Annual Meeting in June 1996. The Committee assignments are as follows: AUDIT COMMITTEEFranklin K. Birckhead, ChairArnold H. LeonAlbert H. SmallHenry L. Valentine, II BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEAlbert H. Small, ChairSean N. BryantChamp ClarkWilliam H. Goodwin, Jr.Elsie Goodwyn HollandEvans B. Jessee EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEElizabeth A. Twohy, ChairJohn P. Ackerly, IIISean N. BryantMortimer M. CaplinCharles M. Caravati, Jr.T. Keister GreerElsie Goodwyn Holland EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEEArnold H. Leon, ChairJohn P. Ackerly, IIIMortimer M. CaplinCharles M. Caravati, Jr.Warner N. DalhouseWilliam H. Goodwin, Jr.T. Keister GreerElizabeth A. Twohy FINANCE COMMITTEEMortimer M. Caplin, ChairFranklin K. BirckheadWarner N. DalhouseWilliam H. Goodwin, Jr.Arnold H. LeonC. Wilson McNeely, IIIHenry L. Valentine, II HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEECharles M. Caravati, Jr., ChairJohn P. Ackerly, IIIWilliam H. Goodwin, Jr.T. Keister GreerEvans B. JesseeC. Wilson McNeely, IIIAlbert H. Small STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEC. Wilson McNeely, III, ChairFranklin K. BirckheadSean N. BryantChamp ClarkElsie Goodwyn HollandElizabeth A. TwohyHenry L. Valentine, II

The Rector, Mr. Hovey S. Dabney, is an ex-officio member of all committees.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported on Gifts, Grants and Contracts. The Report was accepted by the Board.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR GLENN B. UPDIKE, JR.
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., was born in Danville on December 25, 1926, and received both his undergraduate and medical education at the University of Virginia, taking the degree of Medical Doctor in 1950; andWHEREAS, Dr. Updike served in the United States Navy and later completed a residency in Obstetrics and Gynecology at the University Hospital in 1958, and returned to Danville to practice medicine; andWHEREAS, Dr. Updike served his city, his state, and his university and his profession on numerous boards and committees; andWHEREAS, Dr. Updike was President of the University of Virginia Medical Alumni Association, and President of the University of Virginia Medical School Foundation; andWHEREAS, Dr. Updike gave invaluable service to the University as a member of the Board of Visitors from 1979 to 1983; andWHEREAS, Dr. Updike died in Danville on May 8, 1996;RESOLVED, The Board of Visitors notes with great regret the passing of Glenn B. Updike, Jr., and expresses its thanks for his devotion to the University and its deepest sympathy to Mrs. Updike and their children.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BECTON DICKINSON PROFESSORSHIP IN HEALTH CARE WORKER SAFETY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the Becton Dickinson Professorship in Health Care Worker Safety. The Board is grateful to Becton Dickinson and Company which made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HORACE W. GOLDSMITH DISTINGUISHED TEACHING PROFESSORSHIP IN THE HUMANITIES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is established in the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Horace W. Goldsmith Distinguished Teaching Professorship in the Humanities. The Board is grateful to the Horace W. Goldsmith Foundation which made the establishment of this Chair possible.

APPROVAL TO INCREASE THE NUMBER OF MEMBERS OF THE MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the number of members of the Council of the White Burkett Miller Center for Public Affairs be increased from twelve, plus two ex officio members, to fourteen, plus two ex officio members, effective June 30, 1996.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MASTER OF SCIENCE DEGREE IN BIOLOGICAL AND PHYSICAL SCIENCES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that, subject to approval by the State Council of Higher Education, the degree of Master of Science in Biological and Physical Sciences be established to replace the separate Master of Science degrees currently being offered in the specific disciplines of cell biology, biophysics, microbiology, pharmacology, and physiology, which will no longer be offered by the University.

APPROVAL TO ACCEPT PROPOSALS RECOMMENDED FOR FUNDING ACADEMIC ENHANCEMENT
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors (the "Board") approved continuation of the Academic Enhancement Program at the level of $2 million per year for at least three years beginning in the 1995-96 academic year; andWHEREAS, The Board approved three-year awards totaling $5,352,489 in June of 1995, on the assumption that a supplementary competition would be held during the 1995-1996 academic year for the humanities and social sciences; andWHEREAS, the Vice President and Provost for Research has completed a competitive review process to screen humanities and social sciences applicants for Academic Enhancement Program funding; andWHEREAS, the Vice President and Provost of the University has recommended approval of the proposals shown in the attached schedule;RESOLVED that the recommended proposals be funded under the Academic Enhancement Program at the levels shown in the listing on the attached schedule.

APPROVAL TO ALLOW THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FOUNDATION OR ITS SUBSIDIARIES TO PROVIDE GIFT ANNUITIES TO DONORS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors, as recommended by the External Affairs Committee, authorize the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to (1) create a gift annuity program; (2) sign and create any documentation related to such a program; (3) direct the use of funds held by the Foundation or its subsidiaries, on behalf of the University, for reserves needed to comply with gift annuity policies in various states; and (4) ensure that the gift annuity program is conducted in accordance with guidelines established by the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors.

APPROVAL TO INVEST AN ADDITIONAL $2,500,000 ON BEHALF OF THE MEDICAL CENTER IN BLUE RIDGE HEALTH ALLIANCE, INC., AND TO AMEND CORPORATE DOCUMENTS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, The Board of Visitors has approved the establishment of Blue Ridge Health Alliance, Inc., and its subsidiary corporation QualChoice of Virginia, Inc.; andWHEREAS, the Blue Ridge Health Alliance, Inc., Board of Directors has recommended changes to the Articles of Incorporation, the By-laws and the Stockholders agreement; andWHEREAS, the Blue Ridge Health Alliance, Inc., Board of Directors has recommended that QualChoice of Virginia, Inc., offer enrollment as an insurance entity; andWHEREAS, the Blue Ridge Health Alliance, Inc., Board of Directors has recommended expansion of QualChoice's enrollment area beyond central Virginia;RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in consultation with the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences is hereby authorized to invest an additional $2,500,000 on behalf of the Medical Center in Blue Ridge Health Alliance, Inc., to be matched by the same amount from the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation, and to approve changes in corporate documents subject to review of General Counsel;RESOLVED FURTHER that the University's representatives to the Blue Ridge Health Alliance, Inc., Board of Directors should consult with the University's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences prior to authorizing the issuance of stock to other potential subscribers.

APPROVAL OF AUDIT SCHEDULE FOR FISCAL YEAR 1996-97
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Audit Schedule for Fiscal Year 1996-97, as recommended by the Audit Committee, is approved.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period January 1, 1996 to April 30, 1996, as recommended by the Audit Committee, is approved.

APPROVAL OF THE ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE HEALTH SCIENCES CENTER EAST PARKING GARAGE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, prepared by the Architect for the University, dated May 15, 1996, for the construction of the Health Sciences Center East Precinct Parking Garage project, are approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the project design shall be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE EMERGENCY OPERATIONS CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the preliminary design for the construction of the Emergency Operations Center Project as illustrated on drawings titled:1. Site Plan (upper and lower level)2. Floor Plans (upper and lower level)3. Elevations (North, South, East, West) and Building Cross Section (Front to Back)dated March 11, 1996, and prepared by Hayes, Seay, Mattern & Mattern of Roanoke, Virginia, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF THE ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE ELSON STUDENT HEALTH CENTER ADDITION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Metcalf Tobey Davis is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the feasibility study for the Elson Student Health Center Addition;RESOLVED FURTHER that at the option of the University Administration, the firm may later be retained to perform full architectural and engineering services.

APPROVAL OF THE ENGINEER SELECTION FOR THE CARR'S HILL ELECTRIC UPGRADE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Hayes, Seay, Mattern & Mattern is approved for the performance of engineering services for the feasibility study for the Carr's Hill Electric Upgrade project;RESOLVED FURTHER that at the option of the University administration, the firm may later be retained to perform full engineering services.

APPROVAL OF PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY EASEMENTS FOR THE THOMAS JEFFERSON MEMORIAL FOUNDATION, INC., AND PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR VIRGINIA ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA LAND LOCATED AT BLUE RIDGE HOSPITAL
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the granting of permanent and temporary easements dated June 15, 1996, to the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation, Inc., to permit the establishment of a scenic parkway adjacent to the Blue Ridge Hospital property and a foot/bike trail on Blue Ridge Hospital property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the granting of a permanent easement dated June 15, 1996, to the Virginia Electric and Power Company to permit the relocation and burial of electric transmission cables on Blue Ridge Hospital property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easements.

APPROVAL OF PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE GAS DIVISION ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA LAND LOCATED AT 2504 STADIUM ROAD
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement dated June 15, 1996, to the City of Charlottesville Gas Division to permit the installation of a natural gas distribution line at 2504 Stadium Road on University property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

APPROVAL OF DEDICATION TO PUBLIC USE OF A STRIP OF UNIVERSITY LAND AND PERMANENT EASEMENTS FOR SPRINT-CENTEL AND THE CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE GAS DIVISION ON UNIVERSITY LAND IN THE VICINITY OF RUGBY ROAD
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Dedication to Public Use dated June 15, 1996, of a strip of land on the east side of Rugby Road from the University Avenue intersection to the Peyton House for the purpose of the widening of Rugby Road and the installation of an adjacent sidewalk on University property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the granting of a permanent 15' wide easement dated June 15, 1996, to Sprint-Centel to permit the replacement of telecommunication lines to Madison Hall on University property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the granting of a permanent easement dated June 15, 1996, to the City of Charlottesville Gas Division to permit the connection of a new natural gas transmission line to an existing line on University property south of the intersection of University Avenue and Rugby Road and owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easements.

APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT FOR VIRGINIA OIL COMPANY ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA LAND AT THE INTERSECTION OF MILLMONT STREET AND BARRACKS ROAD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the granting of a construction easement dated June 15, 1996, to Virginia Oil Company, which grants temporary access to the property, to grade the joint area along the property line in accordance with the conditions stipulated by the University, on University property at the intersection of Millmont Street and Barracks Road and owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

APPROVAL OF THE RENAMING OF THE PERRY FOUNDATION COURTS
-------------------------------------------------------

The the following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Junius Rodes Fishburne was born in Albemarle County in 1915 and died in Charlottesville in 1991; andWHEREAS, Mr. Fishburne was a member of a family distinguished for many generations for its contributions to the life of Charlottesville and Albemarle County; andWHEREAS, Mr. Fishburne took both his Bachelor's and Law degrees from the University, having been Chairman of the Honor Committee, and Captain of the Tennis Team, among many other activities; andWHEREAS, Mr. Fishburne continued his active involvement in his community after he finished the University, serving as Chairman of the Charlottesville School Board, President of the Charlottesville-Albemarle Chamber of Commerce, and member of the boards of the Perry Foundation, the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Association, the Blue Ridge School and the Miller School; andWHEREAS, the University Hall tennis courts were a gift to the University from the Perry Foundation in 1971 and were accordingly named the Perry Foundation Courts;RESOLVED that the Perry Foundation Courts be renamed the Perry-Fishburne Courts to acknowledge both the generosity of the Perry Foundation and the contributions of Junius Rodes Fishburne.

APPROVAL OF THE NAMING OF THE COUNSELING CENTER
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Lyell Clay of West Virginia, an alumnus of the School of Law, has made a generous gift to the University to finance a program in suicide prevention at the University Counseling Center; andWHEREAS, Mr. Clay made his gift in honor of Harrison B. "Tersh" Smith, Jr., an alumnus of the University who died in 1957; andWHEREAS, Mr. Clay's gift will provide an endowment which will support the suicide prevention program and a counselor in suicide prevention, thus enabling the University to establish a program which will serve as a model for other institutions;RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors thanks Mr. Clay for his generosity and names the Counseling Center the Harrison Bowne "Tersh" Smith, Jr., Memorial Center for Counseling and Psychological Services.

APPROVAL OF THE NAMING OF THE NEW RESIDENCE HALL
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Irby Bruce Cauthen, Jr., was born in South Carolina on August 24, 1919; andWHEREAS, Mr. Cauthen took the Master of Arts and the Doctor of Philosophy in English from the University of Virginia; andWHEREAS, Mr. Cauthen joined the faculty as Assistant Professor of English in 1954 and became Professor of English in 1964; andWHEREAS, Mr. Cauthen served as Assistant Dean, Associate Dean and finally Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences from 1962 to 1978; andWHEREAS, Mr. Cauthen retired from the faculty in 1987 and was then elected Professor Emeritus by this Board; andWHEREAS, Mr. Cauthen died on May 27, 1994; andWHEREAS, Mr. Cauthen served the University with enormous distinction, remembered by his students as a superb teacher and by colleagues for his scholarship and his abilities as an administrator;RESOLVED that the new residence hall on Alderman Road be named Cauthen House in honor of Irby Bruce Cauthen, Jr.

APPROVAL OF THE 1996-97 BUDGET FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1996-97 Budget for the Academic Division be approved, as recommended by the President and Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE 1996-97 BUDGET FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1996-97 Budget for Clinch Valley College be approved, as recommended by the President and Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE 1996-97 BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1996-97 Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center, which includes a hospital room and ancillary service rate increase of 5.0 percent, be approved, as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE 1996-97 BUDGET OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATE FOR THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND SPECIFIC DEPARTMENTS IN THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the budget for the expenditure of funds from the Estate of John Lee Pratt be approved as a supplement of appropriations made by the State of Virginia for the School of Medicine and Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics in the College of Arts and Sciences in an amount not to exceed $2.5 million for 1996-97 as suggested by the department chairs, as recommended by the deans of each school, and as approved by the Vice President and Provost, the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences, the President and the Finance Committee. To the extent the annual income from the endowment is not adequate to meet the recommended distribution, the principal of the endowment will be divested to provide funds for the approved budgets.

APPROVAL OF THE COMPENSATION PLAN FOR MEDICAL CENTER EMPLOYEES
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, The Board of Visitors is authorized to establish compensation plans for Medical Center employees, andWHEREAS, the Medical Center is considering a compensation plan for 1997 to include a gainsharing component, andWHEREAS, the Medical Center plans to review alternatives with representative employee groups and management,RESOLVED that the President is authorized to approve the compensation plan for the Medical Center employees in consultation with the Chairs of the Health Affairs and Finance Committees of the Board of Visitors, provided that such plan can be accommodated within the Medical Center's 1997 budget plan.

APPROVAL OF THE FACULTY SALARY SCHEDULE FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE, 1996-97
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1995-96

1996-97 PROPOSED

Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on session basis unless otherwise noted.

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Normal Increments Amount

Interval

ACADEMIC DIVISION

General Faculty (4) (4)The rank Lecturer is used for administrative faculty positions as well as instructional personnel whose assignment or status does not fit into the regular structure of faculty rank. Salary levels will vary in accordance with level of responsibility and experience. Authority is hereby delegated to the President to make one-time special payments to selected faculty in recognition of extraordinary achievement. (6) (6)The salary schedule for Academic Division General Faculty applies to pre-clinical, or basic science, faculty in the School of Medicine.

Professor

$47,800

$49,700

(2) (2)0-10.0 percent, amounts in excess of 10.0 percent are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

$39,700

$41,300

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

$32,300

$33,600

(2)

1 year

Instructor

$22,700

$23,600

(2)

1 year

Clinical Faculty (School of Medicine) (3) (3)Amounts in this category are stated on an annual basis. (5) (5)The Clinical Faculty comprises those physicians, clinical pathologists, clinical psychologists and dentists who are employed both by the University of Virginia School of Medicine and the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation. Base salary levels are the minimum amounts required to be paid to clinical faculty by the University of Virginia in order for them to qualify as full-time faculty.

Chair

$82,500

$82,500

(2)

1 year

Professor

$72,000

$72,000

(2)

1 year

Associate Professor

$48,800

$48,800

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

$35,000

$35,000

(2)

1 year

Instructor

$33,100

$33,100

(2)

1 year

Junior Staff (3)

Research Scientist

$18,400

$19,700

(2)

1 year

Research Associate

$20,000

$22,000

(2)

1 year

Sponsored Programs (3)

Research Scientist

$30,300

$31,500

(2)

1 year

Senior Scientist

$37,800

$39,300

(2)

1 year

Principal Scientist

$58,000

$60,300

(2)

1 year

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE

Professor

$36,250

$38,400

(2)

1 year

Associate Professor

$31,300

$33,200

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

$27,000

$28,600

(2)

1 year

Instructor

$23,000

$24,000

(2)

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following compensation plans applicable to staff holding faculty positions in the Academic Division and Clinch Valley College be approved, effective July 1, 1996;RESOLVED FURTHER that the President be delegated the authority to make one-time special payments to selected individuals in recognition of extraordinary achievement. 1995-961996-97 PROPOSEDNormal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on session basis unless otherwise noted. Normal Entrance Rate (1)Normal Increments AmountIntervalACADEMIC DIVISIONGeneral Faculty (4) (4)The rank Lecturer is used for administrative faculty positions as well as instructional personnel whose assignment or status does not fit into the regular structure of faculty rank. Salary levels will vary in accordance with level of responsibility and experience. Authority is hereby delegated to the President to make one-time special payments to selected faculty in recognition of extraordinary achievement. (6) (6)The salary schedule for Academic Division General Faculty applies to pre-clinical, or basic science, faculty in the School of Medicine. Professor$47,800$49,700(2) (2)0-10.0 percent, amounts in excess of 10.0 percent are approved as special salary actions. 1 yearAssociate Professor$39,700$41,300(2)1 yearAssistant Professor$32,300$33,600(2)1 yearInstructor$22,700$23,600(2)1 yearClinical Faculty (School of Medicine) (3) (3)Amounts in this category are stated on an annual basis. (5) (5)The Clinical Faculty comprises those physicians, clinical pathologists, clinical psychologists and dentists who are employed both by the University of Virginia School of Medicine and the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation. Base salary levels are the minimum amounts required to be paid to clinical faculty by the University of Virginia in order for them to qualify as full-time faculty. Chair$82,500$82,500(2)1 yearProfessor$72,000$72,000(2)1 yearAssociate Professor$48,800$48,800(2)1 yearAssistant Professor$35,000$35,000(2)1 yearInstructor$33,100$33,100(2)1 yearJunior Staff (3)Research Scientist$18,400$19,700(2)1 yearResearch Associate$20,000$22,000(2)1 yearSponsored Programs (3)Research Scientist$30,300$31,500(2)1 yearSenior Scientist$37,800$39,300(2)1 yearPrincipal Scientist$58,000$60,300(2)1 yearCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEProfessor$36,250$38,400(2)1 yearAssociate Professor$31,300$33,200(2)1 yearAssistant Professor$27,000$28,600(2)1 yearInstructor$23,000$24,000(2)1 year

Amounts are stated on session basis unless otherwise noted.

The rank Lecturer is used for administrative faculty positions as well as instructional personnel whose assignment or status does not fit into the regular structure of faculty rank. Salary levels will vary in accordance with level of responsibility and experience. Authority is hereby delegated to the President to make one-time special payments to selected faculty in recognition of extraordinary achievement.

The salary schedule for Academic Division General Faculty applies to pre-clinical, or basic science, faculty in the School of Medicine.

0-10.0 percent, amounts in excess of 10.0 percent are approved as special salary actions.

Amounts in this category are stated on an annual basis.

The Clinical Faculty comprises those physicians, clinical pathologists, clinical psychologists and dentists who are employed both by the University of Virginia School of Medicine and the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation. Base salary levels are the minimum amounts required to be paid to clinical faculty by the University of Virginia in order for them to qualify as full-time faculty.

APPROVAL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING EXERCISE OF POST-APPROPRIATION AUTONOMY FOR CERTAIN NON-GENERAL FUND CAPITAL PROJECTS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the General Assembly of Virginia, during its 1996 session, enacted legislation ("enabling legislation") providing for a permanent delegation of autonomy to the University in relation to post-appropriation non-general fund capital projects of the Medical Center; andWHEREAS the enabling legislation further delegated to the University as a whole autonomy for post-appropriation non-general fund capital projects other than capital projects authorized for the Medical Center, which autonomy is to be exercised during a two-year pilot project concluding at the end of the 1996-98 biennium; andWHEREAS each of the two foregoing delegations of autonomy to the University provides that the authority delegated to the University may not be exercised until the Board of Visitors adopts an appropriate system of policies, procedures, reviews, approvals and guidelines pursuant to which University officials will be guided in their exercise of the delegated autonomy; andWHEREAS the Board of Visitors' policies adopted in relation to University non-general fund capital projects other than Medical Center projects are subject to a requirement in the enabling legislation that those policies be submitted to the Secretary of Finance and the Secretary of Administration for their approval by September 1, 1996; andWHEREAS the Board of Visitors finds that the proposed "Policy Statement Governing Exercise of Post-Appropriation Autonomy for Certain Non-General Fund Capital Projects," attached hereto, constitutes the required system of reviews, approvals, policies, procedures and guidelines as prescribed by the enabling legislation and is otherwise appropriately designed to provide for the efficient and businesslike administration of non-general fund capital projects subsequent to completion of the appropriation process;RESOLVED that, based upon the expressed and implied powers of the Board of Visitors to protect and preserve the University's interests and properties, the "Policy Statement Governing Exercise of Post-Appropriation Autonomy for Certain Non-General Fund Capital Projects," attached hereto, be approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the President be delegated the authority (1) to implement the adopted and approved Policy Statement in the manner he deems most appropriate; (2) to delegate further to his designee the administrative responsibility to implement and assure compliance with the adopted Policy Statement; (3) to take such steps as he may deem necessary and reasonable to secure approval of the Secretaries of Finance and Administration for those portions of the Policy Statement relating to University non-general fund capital projects other than Medical Center projects; and (4) to approve any minor changes in the Policy Statement where necessary to secure the foregoing approvals, which changes, if any, shall be reported to the Board of Visitors.

APPROVAL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING EXERCISE OF AUTONOMY IN LEASES OF PROPERTY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the General Assembly of Virginia, during its 1996 session, enacted legislation ("enabling legislation") providing for a permanent delegation of autonomy to the University to be exercised on behalf of the Medical Center in relation to leases of property; andWHEREAS the enabling legislation further delegated to the University as a whole autonomy for leases of property, other than leases entered into on behalf of the Medical Center, which autonomy is to be exercised during a two-year pilot project concluding at the end of the 1996-98 biennium; andWHEREAS each of the two foregoing delegations of autonomy to the University provide that the authority delegated to the University may not be exercised until the Board of Visitors adopts an appropriate system of policies, procedures, reviews and approvals pursuant to which University officials will be guided in their exercise of the delegated autonomy; andWHEREAS the Board of Visitors' policies, procedures and guidelines adopted in relation to University leases of property other than leases entered into on behalf of the Medical Center are subject to a requirement in the enabling legislation that they be submitted to the Secretary of Finance and the Secretary of Administration for their approval by September 1, 1996; andWHEREAS the Board of Visitors finds that the proposed "Policy Statement Governing Exercise of Autonomy in Leases of Property," attached hereto, constitutes the required system of reviews, approvals, policies, procedures and guidelines prescribed by the enabling legislation and is otherwise appropriately designed to provide for the efficient and businesslike administration of leases of property;RESOLVED that, based upon the expressed and implied powers of the Board of Visitors to protect and preserve the University's interests and properties, the "Policy Statement Governing Exercise of Autonomy in Leases of Property," attached hereto, be approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the President be delegated the authority (1) to implement the adopted and approved Policy Statement in the manner he deems most appropriate; (2) to delegate further to his designee the administrative responsibility to implement and assure compliance with the adopted Policy Statement; (3) to take such steps as he may deem necessary and reasonable to secure approval of the Secretaries of Finance and Administration for those portions of the Policy Statement relating to University leases of property, other than those entered into on behalf of the Medical Center; and (4) to approve any minor changes in the Policy Statement where necessary to secure the foregoing approvals, which changes, if any, shall be reported to the Board of Visitors.

APPROVAL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING EXERCISE OF PROCUREMENT AUTONOMY BY THE UNIVERSITY ON BEHALF OF THE MEDICAL CENTER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the General Assembly of Virginia, during its 1996 session, enacted legislation ("enabling legislation") providing the University of Virginia with autonomy to conduct the procurement of goods, services, including professional services, and construction by the University on behalf of the University of Virginia Medical Center; andWHEREAS the legislation requires that the autonomy for procurements by the University on behalf of the Medical Center shall not be effective until the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia ("Board of Visitors") adopt guidelines that are generally applicable to such procurements and that are based on competitive principles and meet certain other requirements of the enabling legislation; andWHEREAS the Board of Visitors finds that the proposed "Policy Statement Governing Exercise of Procurement Autonomy by the University on Behalf of the University of Virginia Medical Center" ("Medical Center Procurement Policy Statement"), attached hereto, constitutes the guidelines required by the enabling legislation and is appropriately designed to ensure both efficiency and competition in procurements by the University on behalf of the Medical Center and to ensure accountability for such procurements by both the President and other appropriate officials in the central administration of the University and in the Medical Center; andWHEREAS the attached Medical Center Procurement Policy Statement was published in the Virginia Register on May 22, 1996 as "proposed" regulations to be considered by the Board of Visitors, and after the Board of Visitors considers the proposed Medical Center Procurement Policy Statement and makes any changes to that document it deems appropriate, the Statement as adopted by the Board of Visitors will be published a second time in the July 1996 issue of the Virginia Register as the Board of Visitors' final regulations on the subject;RESOLVED that based upon the expressed and implied powers of the Board of Visitors to protect and preserve the University's interests and resources, the Medical Center Procurement Policy Statement, attached hereto, be approved, effective upon the date of its second publication in the Virginia Register; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the President be delegated the authority (1) to implement the adopted and approved Medical Center Procurement Policy Statement in the manner he deems most appropriate; (2) to delegate further to other appropriate officials, including appropriate Medical Center officials, the administrative responsibility to implement and ensure compliance with the Medical Center Procurement Policy Statement; and (3) to establish whatever internal reporting requirements he deems appropriate to ensure compliance with the Medical Center Procurement Policy Statement and to protect the interests of the University.

APPROVAL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING EXERCISE OF MEDICAL CENTER PERSONNEL AUTONOMY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the General Assembly of Virginia, during its 1996 session, enacted legislation ("enabling legislation") providing the University of Virginia with increased autonomy regarding the adoption of personnel policies and a unified personnel administration system for employees of the University of Virginia Medical Center, and with considerable autonomy and flexibility regarding the adoption of alternative retirement, health care plans and insurance plans for Medical Center employees; andWHEREAS the primary reason the University sought enactment of the enabling legislation was to give the University, on behalf of the Medical Center, the autonomy and flexibility to enable management of the Medical Center to make and implement promptly decisions necessary to conduct the affairs of the Medical Center in an efficient manner so that the Medical Center can compete effectively with other providers of health care who are not subject to the requirements of law applicable to agencies of the Commonwealth; andWHEREAS the Medical Center employs approximately 4,200 faculty and staff, composed of approximately 140 members of the general faculty, 2,500 health care providers and 1,500 classified employees; andWHEREAS the Rector and Visitors of the University ("Board of Visitors") recognize the hard work and dedication of these employees and wish to ensure that their rights and interests are protected through a personnel system that is fair and equitable; andWHEREAS the current personnel system governing members of the general faculty at the Medical Center is the University of Virginia Faculty Handbook (1994) and the Provost's Office Handbook; as those documents are amended from time to time, and the current personnel system governing health care providers is the University of Virginia Human Resources Policies and Procedures Manual; andWHEREAS the current personnel system governing other Medical Center employees is the University of Virginia Human Resources Policies and Procedures Manual, and for those employees who are classified as State employees, the Virginia Personnel Act also is applicable; andWHEREAS the enabling legislation provides that, effective July 1, 1996, all employees of the Medical Center will be exempt from the Virginia Personnel Act; andWHEREAS the general faculty of the Medical Center and those Medical Center employees who have been designated as "health care providers" have been exempt from the Virginia Personnel Act for a number of years; andWHEREAS there are alternative personnel systems in place at the Medical Center for health care providers and general faculty, but there is no alternative personnel system available for other employees of the Medical Center, including those who, until July 1, 1996, will have been covered by the Virginia Personnel Act, and there is a need, therefore, to have an alternative personnel system in place for these other Medical Center employees by July 1, 1996; andWHEREAS the Board of Visitors recognizes that in the future the Medical Center may need to adopt changes to the personnel systems for its employees so that it may remain competitive with its private sector counterparts; andWHEREAS the Board of Visitors finds that the proposed "Policy Statement Governing the Exercise of Medical Center Personnel Autonomy" ("Medical Center Personnel Policy Statement"), attached hereto, is consistent with the requirements of the enabling legislation and is appropriately designed (1) to protect the rights and interests of Medical Center employees; (2) to provide the autonomy and flexibility for needed for the Medical Center to compete effectively with its private sector counterparts; and (3) to ensure accountability by both the President and other appropriate officials in the central administration of the University and in the Medical Center for the development and implementation of an appropriate personnel system for Medical Center employees;RESOLVED that, based upon the expressed and implied powers of the Board of Visitors to protect and preserve the University's interests and resources, the Medical Center Personnel Policy Statement, attached hereto, be adopted and approved, effective July 1, 1996; andRESOLVED FURTHER that, although the proposed Medical Center Personnel Policy Statement does not propose or authorize any changes in current Medical Center compensation plans, alternative retirement plans, health care plans or insurance plans, the President is directed that any proposals for such changes in the future must be presented to the Board of Visitors for its review and approval; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the President be delegated the authority (1) to implement the adopted and approved Medical Center Personnel Policy Statement in the manner he deems most appropriate; (2) to delegate further to other appropriate officials, including appropriate Medical Center officials, the administrative responsibility to implement and ensure compliance with the Medical Center Personnel Policy Statement; and (3) to establish whatever internal reporting requirements he deems appropriate to ensure compliance with the enabling legislation and the Medical Center Personnel Policy Statement and to protect the interests of the University and of Medical Center employees.

THOMAS JEFFERSON REGIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PARTNERSHIP, INC.
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, as the University's representative on the Board of the Thomas Jefferson Regional Economic Development Partnership, Inc., is authorized to confirm, without referral to the Board of Visitors, the acceptance of new directors on the Partnership Board.

APPROVAL OF THE ASSIGNMENT OF THE UPPER APARTMENT, PAVILION VIII
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Upper Apartment of Pavilion VIII be assigned to Mr. and Mrs. Brad Brown for four years, effective at the beginning of the Fall Semester of the 1996-1997 Session. Mr. Brown is Associate Professor of Commerce.

APPROVAL OF THE ASSIGNMENT OF THE LOWER APARTMENT, PAVILION VIII
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Lower Apartment of Pavilion VIII be assigned to Ms. Sarah P. Farrell, Assistant Professor in the School of Nursing, for four years, effective at the beginning of the Fall Semester of the 1996-1997 Session.

APPROVAL OF A REVISION OF THE ADVISORY COUNCIL BY-LAWS
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Special Committee on Clinch Valley College, with the concurrence of the President and the Rector, be authorized to approve changes to the name and by-laws of the Advisory Council.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected to the faculty:Ms. Marjorie E. Adams as Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. George S. Allayannis as Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Frederick J. Brigham as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Leslie K. Cole as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Anne M. Coughlin as Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Wendell E. Dunn, III as Professor of Business Administration, General Faculty, for five years, effective March 1, 1996.Mr. Jonathan Flatley as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Jacob Goeree as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Robert L. Hannan as Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective May 1, 1996.Mr. Frank E. Harrell, Jr. as Professor of Health Evaluation Sciences, effective March 1, 1996.Ms. Ruth Ann Hill as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Adelaide Wilcox King as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Kevin A. Kordana as Assistant Professor of Law, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Daryl J. Levinson as Assistant Professor of Law, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Angeline S. Lillard as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Patrick S. Mangan as Assistant Professor of Research in Neurology, for one year, effective May 1, 1996.Dr. Marcus L. Martin as Professor of Emergency Medicine, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Cynthia E. McKinney as Assistant Professor of Research in Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, for three years, effective March 25, 1996.Mr. John V. Pepper as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Caroline M. Rody as Assistant Professor of English, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Hilary A. Sanfey as Assistant Professor of Clinical Surgery, for the period April 1, 1996 through March 31, 1997.Mr. Kenneth W. Simington as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Antoinette R. Thomas as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Kathryn C. Thornton as Professor of Technology, Culture, and Communication, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Dariusz Tolczyk as Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1996.

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of ChairholdersMs. Mary Anne C. Case as Class of 1966 Research Professor of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Jeanne C. Fox as Madge M. Jones Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Charles A. Holt, Jr. as Merrill H. Bankard Professor of Economics, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Stephen Innes as James Madison Professor of History, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. John C. Jeffries, Jr. as William L. Matheson and Robert M. Morgenthau Research Professor of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Edmund W. Kitch as Sullivan and Cromwell Research Professor of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Graham C. Lilly as Thomas F. Bergin Teaching Professor of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Paul G. Mahoney as Albert C. BeVier Research Professor of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. H.C. Erik Midelfort as Julian Bishko Professor of History, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Daniel R. Ortiz as John Allan Love Professor of Law, without term, and Elizabeth D. and Richard A. Merrill Research Professor of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Glen O. Robinson as Caddell and Conwell Research Professor of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Julie A. Roin as Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Paul B. Stephan, III as Barron F. Black Research Professor of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. William J. Stuntz as Class of 1962 Professor of Law, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Ann G. Taylor as Betty Norman Norris Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. George G. Triantis as Nicholas E. Chimicles Research Professor in Business Law and Regulation, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Thomas R. White, III as John C. Stennis Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1996.(b) Promotions of ChairholdersDr. Thomas P. Bleck from Louise Nerancy Associate Professor of Neurology, without term and Associate Professor of Neurological Surgery to Louise Nerancy Professor of Neurology, without term and Professor of Neurological Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. James E. Ferguson, II from John M. Nokes associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without term and Associate Professor of Radiology to John M. Nokes Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without term and Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.(c) Changes of Title of ChairholdersMs. Lillian R. BeVier from Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law and Elizabeth D. and Richard A. Merrill Research Professor of Law to Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Clayton P. Gillette from Perre Bowen Professor of Law and Caddell and Conwell Research Professor of Law to Perre Bowen Professor of Law, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Stanley D. Henderson from F.D.G. Ribble Professor of Law and Thomas F. Bergin Teaching Professor of Law to F.D.G. Ribble Professor of Law, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Michael J. Klarman from Professor of Law and Class of 1966 Research Professor of Law to Professor of Law, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Joseph C. Miller from Commonwealth Professor of History to T. Cary Johnson, Jr. Professor of History, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Elizabeth S. Scott from University Professor and Robert C. Taylor Research Professor of Law to University Professor, effective July 1, 1996.(d) Retirements of Chairholders

The President announced the following retirements: Mr. Gianfranco Poggi, William R. Kenan, Jr. Professor of Sociology, effective May 31, 1996. Mr. Poggi has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1988.Mr. John W. Rosenblum, Tayloe Murphy Professor of Business Administration, effective May 31, 1996. Mr. Rosenblum has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1979.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members are hereby promoted:Ms. Mary P. Abouzeid from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Stephen D. Arata from Assistant Professor of English to Associate Professor of English, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Peter S. Baker from Associate Professor of English to Professor of English, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Daniel M. Becker from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. James D. Bergin from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Susan H. Blanton from Assistant Professor of Research in Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Research in Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Louis A. Bloomfield from Associate Professor of Physics to Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Linda K. Blum from Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences to Research Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective August 1, 1996.Mr. Warren Boeschenstein from Associate Professor of Architecture to Professor of Architecture, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. David L. Bogdonoff from Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, with term and Associate Professor of Surgery, with term to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, without term and Associate Professor of Surgery, for two years, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. Robert J. Boyle from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, with term to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, without term, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Donald Brown from Associate Professor of Engineering to Professor of Engineering, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Harold Burbach from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Reginald D. Butler from Assistant Professor of History to Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Frank Carey from Associate Professor of Chemistry to Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Anita H. Clayton from Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Medicine to Associate Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. Charles E. Conklin, Jr. from Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry to Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. Julia E. Connelly from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Robert J. Davis from Assistant Professor of Engineering to Associate Professor of Engineering, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Richard N. Day from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for two years, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. Pedro A. de Alarcon from Professor of Pediatrics, with term to Professor of Pediatrics, without term, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. Margarete Di Benedetto from Professor of Clinical Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation to Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. John J. Dobbins from Associate Professor of Art to Professor of Art, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Jacques E. Dion from Associate Professor of Radiology and Associate Professor of Neurosurgery to Professor of Radiology, without term, and Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Mark W. Edmundson from Associate Professor of English to Professor of English, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Daniel A. Engel from Associate Professor of Microbiology, with term to Associate Professor of Microbiology, without term, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. Laurie L. Fajardo from Associate Professor of Radiology to Professor of Radiology, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Robin A. Felder from Associate Professor of Pathology to Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Bruce Gansneder from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Lawrence O. Goedde from Associate Professor of Art to Professor of Art, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Gary J. Gorbsky from Associate Professor of Cell Biology, with term to Associate Professor of Cell Biology, without term, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. E. Clarke Haley, Jr. from Associate Professor of Neurology, without term, and Associate Professor of Neurosurgery to Professor of Neurology, without term, and Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. Gary J. Harpold from Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology to Associate Professor of Clinical Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Donna Ford Harris from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. M. Roy Harris from Associate Professor of French to Professor of French, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Madaline B. Harrison from Assistant Professor of Neurology to Associate Professor of Neurology, for four years, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Janet R. Horne from Assistant Professor of French to Associate Professor of French, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. P.Q. Hung from Associate Professor of Physics to Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Michael L. Johnson from Professor of Pharmacology, without term and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with term to Professor of Pharmacology, without term and Professor of Internal Medicine, for two years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Ervin L. Jordan, Jr. from Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. David M. Kahler from Assistant Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery to Associate Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Masashi Kawasaki from Assistant Professor of Biology to Associate Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Susan E. Kirk from Instructor of Research in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective December 1, 1995.Dr. Lisa A. Kolp from Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. Klaus F. Ley from Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, with term to Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without term, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Joel M. Linden from Professor of Internal Medicine, without term and Associate Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics to Professor of Internal Medicine, without term and Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Eric W. Lott from Assistant Professor of English to Associate Professor of English, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. David M. Maloney from Associate Professor of Commerce to Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Earl Mark from Assistant Professor of Architecture to Associate Professor of Architecture, for three years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Eric H. Maslen from Assistant Professor of Engineering to Associate Professor of Engineering, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. G. Paul Matherne, Jr. from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, with term to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, without term, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Fred E. Maus from Assistant Professor of Music to Associate Professor of Music, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Nancy L. McDaniel from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for two years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Patrick J. Michaels from Research Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences to Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for two years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Kenneth S. Nelson from Assistant Professor of Physics to Associate Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Thomas F.X. Noble from Associate Professor of History to Professor of History, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Roy C. Ogle from Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery and Assistant Professor of Cell Biology to Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, without term and Associate Professor of Cell Biology, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Angela D. Otero from Assistant Professor of Research in Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics to Associate Professor of Research in Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. James W. Patterson from Professor of Pathology, with term and Professor of Dermatology, with term to Professor of Pathology, without term and Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. William R. Pearson from Associate Professor of Biochemistry to Professor of Biochemistry, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. David H. Perrin from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Susan E. Perry from Assistant Professor of Commerce to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. William A. Petri, Jr. from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without term and Associate Professor of Microbiology and Pathology to Professor of Internal Medicine, without term and Professor of Microbiology and Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. David A. Peura from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. K. Kevin Pfister from Assistant Professor of Cell Biology to Associate Professor of Cell Biology, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. JoAnn V. Pinkerton from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with term to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without term, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. Timothy L. Pruett from Associate Professor of Surgery, without term and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Surgery, without term and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Donald E. Ramirez from Associate Professor of Mathematics to Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Karen S. Rheuban from Associate Professor of Pediatrics to Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Gabriel Robins from Assistant Professor of Engineering to Associate Professor of Engineering, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Leonard J. Schoppa from Assistant Professor of Government to Associate Professor of Government, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. John B. Schorling from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with term, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without term, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. John D. Shannon from Assistant Professor of Research in Microbiology to Associate Professor of Research in Microbiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. Helmy M. Siragy from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with term to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without term, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Thomas M. Smith from Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, with term to Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, without term, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Diane G. Snustad from Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine to Associate Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, and Associate Professor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Steven N. Stern from Associate Professor of Economics to Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. James L. Sutphen from Associate Professor of Pediatrics to Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Lukas K. Tamm from Associate Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, with term to Associate Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, without term, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Theodore S. Thomas from Assistant Professor of Research in Obstetrics and Gynecology to Associate Professor of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. James S. Tiedeman from Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, with term to Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, without term, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Carol W. Tomlinson from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. J. Hoult Verkerke from Assistant Professor of Law to Associate Professor of Law, for two years, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Jean Vike from Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurology to Associate Professor of Clinical Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Robert I. Webb from Associate Professor of Commerce to Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Kathryn L. Weise from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for two years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Mark A. White from Assistant Professor of Commerce to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Michael J. Wilkowski from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. Michael E. Williams from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without term and Associate Professor of Pathology to Professor of Internal Medicine, without term and Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Holly M. Wright from Associate Professor of Art to Professor of Art, effective September 1, 1996.Dr. Terrance A. Yemen from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title are hereby made:Ms. Laurie P. Kelsh from Lecturer, General Faculty to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for five years, effective June 1, 1996.Ms. Sondra F. Stallard from Assistant Professor, General Faculty to Professor General Faculty, for the period April 1, 1996 through June 30, 2001.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Ms. Julia A. Clancy-Smith, Associate Professor of History, effective May 31, 1996, to accept another position.Dr. Harold E. Crow, Professor of Family Medicine, effective March 31, 1996, to accept another position.Ms. Kim W. Hamlett, Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, effective July 19, 1996, to accept an American Psychological Association Congressional Fellowship.Ms. Mary E. Van Verst, Assistant Professor of Research in Medical Education, effective May 31, 1996, for personal reasons.

RETIREMENT
----------

The following retirement was announced: Mr. David B. Lawall, Associate Professor of Art History, effective May 31, 1996. Mr. Lawall has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1964.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Ms. Laurie P. Kelsh as Executive Assistant to the President, for five years, effective June 1, 1996.Mr. Hiram S. Miller as Interim Assistant to the Vice President for Student Affairs, for one year, effective March 1, 1996.Mr. Richard Myers as Assistant to the Provost, for the period May 16, 1996 through August 31, 1997.Mr. James H. Scott, III as Director of the Budget, for the period April 29, 1996 through June 30, 1999.Ms. Sondra F. Stallard as Dean, Division of Continuing Education, for the period April 1, 1996 through June 30, 2001.Ms. Kathryn C. Thornton as Director of the Center for Science Education, for five years, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Elizabeth Zintl as Special Assistant to the Vice President and Provost, for five years, effective June 1, 1996.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. John A. Blackburn as Dean of Admissions, for five years, effective July 1, 1995.Mr. Staige D. Blackford as Editor, Virginia Quarterly Review, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Edmund W. Moomaw as Executive Director of Institutional Assessment and Studies, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Robert E. Scott as Dean, School of Law, for five years, effective July 1, 1996.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected Professor Emeriti:Mr. Gianfranco Poggi, William R. Kenan, Jr. Professor of Sociology, effective May 31, 1996.Mr. John W. Rosenblum, Tayloe Murphy Professor of Business Administration, effective May 31, 1996.

ELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person is hereby elected Associate Professor Emeritus:Mr. David B. Lawall, Associate Professor of Art History, effective May 31, 1996.

CHANGE IN THE RETIREMENT OF MR. BRUCE A. CHARTRES
-------------------------------------------------

The following change was announced: That the retirement of Mr. Bruce A. Chartres, Professor of Civil Engineering and Applied Mechanics, effective May 31, 1996, as shown in the minutes of the meeting of April 12, 1996, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Bruce A. Chartres, Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, effective May 31, 1996.

RE-ELECTION OF MR. ROBERT D. SWEENEY AS VICE PRESIDENT FOR DEVELOPMENT
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. Robert D. Sweeney is hereby re-elected as Vice President for Development, for five years, effective August 1, 1996.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEPROMOTIONS
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members are hereby promoted:Mr. C. Alex Edwards from Assistant Professor of Computer Science, with term to Assistant Professor of Computer Science, without term, effective September 1, 1996.Ms. Amelia J. Harris from Assistant Professor of Modern Language, with term to Assistant Professor of Modern Language, without term, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Peter A. Mangan from Assistant Professor of Psychology, with term to Associate Professor of Psychology, without term, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. David L. Rouse from Associate Professor of Philosophy to Professor of Philosophy, effective September 1, 1996.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 12:20 p.m.

AGG:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: June 14, 1996

CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 2

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 2

NAME

VOTE yes or no

COMMENTS

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

John P. Ackerly, III

yes

Franklin K. Birckhead

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

Champ Clark

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

absent

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

absent

T. Keister Greer

yes

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

C. Wilson McNeely, III

yes

Albert H. Small

yes

Elizabeth A. Twohy

yes

Henry L. Valentine, II

yes

Sean N. Bryant

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Friday, June 14, 1996 a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE yes or noCOMMENTSHovey S. DabneyyesJohn P. Ackerly, IIIyesFranklin K. BirckheadyesMortimer M. CaplinyesCharles M. Caravati, Jr.yesChamp ClarkyesWarner N. DalhouseabsentWilliam H. Goodwin, Jr.absentT. Keister GreeryesMrs. Elsie Goodwyn HollandyesEvans B. JesseeyesArnold H. LeonyesC. Wilson McNeely, IIIyesAlbert H. SmallyesElizabeth A. TwohyyesHenry L. Valentine, IIyesSean N. Bryantyes

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: June 15, 1996

CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 2

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 2

NAME

VOTE yes or no

COMMENTS

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

John P. Ackerly, III

yes

Franklin K. Birckhead

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

Champ Clark

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

absent

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

absent

T. Keister Greer

yes

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

C. Wilson McNeely, III

yes

Albert H. Small

yes

Elizabeth A. Twohy

yes

Henry L. Valentine, II

yes

Sean N. Bryant

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Saturday, June 15, 1996 a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE yes or noCOMMENTSHovey S. DabneyyesJohn P. Ackerly, IIIyesFranklin K. BirckheadyesMortimer M. CaplinyesCharles M. Caravati, Jr.yesChamp ClarkyesWarner N. DalhouseabsentWilliam H. Goodwin, Jr.absentT. Keister GreeryesMrs. Elsie Goodwyn HollandyesEvans B. JesseeyesArnold H. LeonyesC. Wilson McNeely, IIIyesAlbert H. SmallyesElizabeth A. TwohyyesHenry L. Valentine, IIyesSean N. Bryantyes

ACADEMIC ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM FOR THE HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES 1996 LIST OF FINALISTS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Principal Author

School

Title

Year 1

Year 2

Year 3

Total Budget Request

Robert Emery

Arts and Sciences

Center for children, families and the law

$106,990

$105,498

$107,361

$319,850

J.H. "Rip" Verkerke

Law

Employment and labor law studies

$56,600

$55,460

$58,460

$170.520

John Unsworth

Arts and Sciences

Emerging technologies in humanities research and teaching

$78,794

$47,632

$49,517

$175,943

Daniel Duke

Curry School of Education

Center for school planning and design

$77,012

$119,412

$102,692

$299,116

TOTALS:

$319,396

$328,002

$318,030

$965,429

Principal AuthorSchoolTitleYear 1Year 2Year 3Total Budget RequestRobert EmeryArts and SciencesCenter for children, families and the law$106,990$105,498$107,361$319,850J.H. "Rip" VerkerkeLawEmployment and labor law studies$56,600$55,460$58,460$170.520John UnsworthArts and SciencesEmerging technologies in humanities research and teaching$78,794$47,632$49,517$175,943Daniel DukeCurry School of EducationCenter for school planning and design$77,012$119,412$102,692$299,116TOTALS:$319,396$328,002$318,030$965,429

June 1996

ATTACHMENTSPOLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING EXERCISE OF POST-APPROPRIATION AUTONOMY FOR CERTAIN NON-GENERAL FUND CAPITAL PROJECTS Attachment ATHE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING EXERCISE OF POST-APPROPRIATION AUTONOMY FOR CERTAIN NON-GENERAL FUND CAPITAL PROJECTSTABLE OF CONTENTS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

I.

Preamble

1

II.

Definitions

2

III.

Scope of Policy

3

IV.

Project Management System

4

V.

Project Size and Scope

4

VI.

Project Cost

6

VII.

Acquisition of Land for Capital Projects

7

VIII.

Capital Project Compliance With The Code Of Virginia

10

IX.

Environmental Impact Reports

11

X.

Project Inspections And Certification For Occupancy

12

XI.

Reporting Requirements

13

TABLE OF CONTENTSPAGEI.Preamble1II.Definitions2III.Scope of Policy3IV.Project Management System4V.Project Size and Scope4VI.Project Cost6VII.Acquisition of Land for Capital Projects7VIII.Capital Project Compliance With The Code Of Virginia10IX.Environmental Impact Reports11X.Project Inspections And Certification For Occupancy12XI.Reporting Requirements13

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING EXERCISE OF POST-APPROPRIATION AUTONOMY FOR CERTAIN NON-GENERAL FUND CAPITAL PROJECTS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I. Preamble

Chapters 995 and 933 of the 1996 Acts of Assembly (House Bill No. 884 and Senate Bill No. 389, respectively) delegated limited but significant autonomy to the University of Virginia to establish its own post-appropriation system for undertaking the implementation of non-general fund capital projects for the University of Virginia Medical Center. In general, the autonomy is designed to replace the traditional post-appropriations system of reviews, approvals, policies and procedures carried out by a variety of central State agencies identified in the enabling legislation. The University's system for carrying out the post-appropriation capital outlay process for non-general fund capital projects of the Medical Center is to be governed by policies adopted by the Board of Visitors. Similarly,  4-5.08 of the 1996 Appropriation Act delegated nearly identical limited autonomy to the University as a whole for non-general fund capital projects authorized for the 1996-1998 biennium. This latter delegation of autonomy is subject to certain conditions, the foremost of which is that the Board of Visitors must adopt a system of reviews and approvals for University non-general fund capital projects and submit the proposed system for prior approval to the Secretaries of Finance and Administration prior to September 1, 1996.

The following provisions of this policy statement constitute the adopted Board of Visitors policies regarding both Medical Center non-general fund capital projects and other University non-general fund capital projects.

II. Definitions

The following words and terms, when used in this policy statement, shall have the following meaning unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

"Board of Visitors" means the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

"Capital project" and "project" mean Medical Center non-general fund capital projects and University-wide non-general fund capital projects unless the text expressly differentiates between Medical Center projects and projects involving the remainder of the University.

"Enabling legislation" means Chapters 995 and 933 of the 1996 Virginia Acts of Assembly (House Bill No. 884 and Senate Bill No. 389, respectively) and  4-5.08 of the 1996-1998 Appropriations Act.

"University" means the University of Virginia, including the Medical Center unless otherwise expressly stated.

"University of Virginia Medical Center" or the "Medical Center" means that part of the University of Virginia Health Sciences Center consisting of the University of Virginia Hospital, referenced in the 1996-98 Appropriation Act as Agency 209, and related health care and health maintenance facilities.

III. Scope of Policy

The current pre-planning process and budget development process for capital projects has not been altered by the enabling legislation. Consequently, this policy statement will only apply to post-appropriation implementation of capital projects which are funded entirely by a non-general fund appropriation made by the General Assembly. Specifically, this policy applies to items identified as authorized capital projects for the University of Virginia or the University of Virginia Medical Center in an Appropriation Act enacted by the General Assembly and approved by the Governor. For non-Medical Center projects at the University, this policy is applicable only during the 1996-1998 biennium unless extended or continued by a subsequent act of the General Assembly. During the 1996-1998 biennium, projects costing less than $500,000 are exempt from this policy, except that the provisions of Section IX shall apply to any project costing in excess of $100,000. For purposes of this policy statement, the term "project" or "capital project" excludes any project funded with a general fund appropriation, in whole or in part. In addition, the terms and structure of any financing of any capital project shall remain subject to other provisions of law including, but not limited to,  2.1-179 of the Code of Virginia.

IV. Project Management System

The President or his designee is authorized to implement a system for the management of University capital projects. The system may include the delegation of management authority to appropriate University officials, including a grant of authority to such officials to engage in further delegation of authority as the President or his designee deems appropriate.

The management system for capital projects shall be designed to insure that such projects comply with the provisions of this policy statement and other Board of Visitors policies applicable to closely related subjects such as selection of architects or policies applicable to University buildings and grounds.

The management system may include a reporting system applicable to capital projects whereby University officials responsible for the management of such projects provide appropriate and timely reports to the President or his designee on the status of such projects during construction. The project status reporting system adopted by the President or his designee may include requirements for prior consultation with and approval by the President or his designee as are deemed appropriate.

V. Project Size and Scope

It shall be the policy of the University of Virginia that the implementation of capital projects shall be carried out so that the project as completed is the project authorized by the General Assembly. The President or his designee shall insure strict adherence to this requirement.

Accordingly, no Medical Center capital project shall be materially increased in size or materially changed in scope beyond the plans and justifications which were the basis for the project's appropriation, either before or during construction, unless: (i) the President or his designee determines that such increase in size or change in scope is necessary due to an emergency and the Governor concurs in such determination, or (ii) the General Assembly approves such increase or change in a subsequent appropriation.

Similarly, no University capital project other than a Medical Center capital project shall be materially increased in size or materially changed in scope beyond the plans and justifications which were the basis for the project's appropriation, either before or during construction, unless such increase in size or change in scope is required because of circumstances determined by the Governor to be an emergency. Minor increases in square footage shall be permissible if they are determined by the Director of the Department of General Services to be reasonable based on a written justification submitted by the University stating the necessity for the increases, with the condition that such increases would not increase the cost of the project beyond the amount appropriated.

VI. Project Cost

(a) It shall be the policy of the University of Virginia that capital projects be completed for an amount which is less than or equal to the sum appropriated therefor by the General Assembly. The President or his designee shall ensure strict compliance with this requirement. The President or his designee shall make appropriate periodic reports to the Board of Visitors on the status of projects.

(b) The President or his designee is authorized to include in the project management system implemented pursuant to Section III of this policy authorization for designated University officials to approve construction contract change orders and to approve professional services contract change orders.

(c) Subject to the limitations set forth elsewhere in this policy regarding change orders and material increases in size or material changes in scope, the President may propose and the Board of Visitors may approve a transfer of funds during any fiscal year in order to supplement funds appropriated for any Medical Center capital project, provided that:

(i) the transferred funds are transferred from a non-general fund appropriation for the Medical Center; and

(ii) the project to which the funds are transferred is a Medical Center non-general fund capital project authorized by the General Assembly; and

(iii) the amount transferred does not exceed 15% of the sum appropriated for the Medical Center project to which the funds are transferred unless the Board of Visitors determines that special circumstances necessitate the transfer of an amount in excess of 15% of that sum in which case the amount transferred shall not exceed the limitations set forth in  23-77.4(1)(a)(iii) of the Code of Virginia; and

(iv) the Board of Visitors finds that the transfer is necessary to effectuate the intention of the General Assembly in making the original appropriation for the Medical Center project or projects in question.

Should it become necessary for the President or his designee to seek a transfer of funds to supplement amounts appropriated for a University capital project other than a Medical Center capital project, the procedures set forth in the 1996 Appropriation Act shall be utilized.

VII. Acquisition of Land for Capital Projects

It is the policy of the University that projects involving land acquisition will be subjected to thorough inquiry and due diligence prior to closing on the acquisition of such land. The President or his designee shall insure that the management system implemented pursuant to Section III provides for a review and analysis of all pertinent matters relating to the acquisition of land as any prudent purchaser would perform to the end that any land acquired by the University shall be suitable for its intended purpose, that the acquisition can be made without discernible risk of liability to the University and that the cost of the land to be acquired, together with any contemplated development thereof, will be such that compliance with the provisions of Section VI of this policy statement is achieved. In addition, the President or his designee shall insure that, where feasible and appropriate to do so, the following specific policies pertaining to the acquisition of land for capital projects are carried out.

(a) Environmental and Land Use Considerations. While pre-appropriation activities relating to planning and budget development of capital projects are not subject to this policy statement, it is sometimes the case with projects involving land acquisition that certain environmental and land use planning requirements cannot be fulfilled until after the appropriation process has been completed. In such cases, depending on the cost of the land and any contemplated development thereof, the University may be required, as a matter of law, to file an Environmental Impact Report ("EIR") with the Department of Environmental Quality ("DEQ") in order to perfect its authority to expend funds for a capital project (see Section IX). If an EIR requirement is applicable in the post-appropriation phase of a project involving land acquisition, the project management system implemented by the President or his designee pursuant to Section IX shall assure that no closing on such land acquisition takes place until after the EIR requirement has been fulfilled.

It is the policy of the University to cooperate with each locality to whom an EIR is furnished by DEQ during the post-appropriation phase of a project involving land acquisition. Such cooperation shall include but not be limited to furnishing any information which the locality may reasonably request and reviewing any requests by the locality with regard to any such capital project. The University will assure examination of the zoning and comprehensive plan designation of the land and surrounding parcels by the locality, as well as any designation of historically or archeologically significant areas on the land by state or federal agencies.

(b) Infrastructure and Site Condition. The President or his designee shall insure that, in the case of projects involving the acquisition of land, the management system implemented under Section III provides for a review of the following matters prior to acquisition of the land: that the land can be developed for its intended purpose without extraordinary cost; that an environmental engineer has been engaged by the University to provide an assessment of any environmental conditions on the land; that there is adequate vehicular ingress and egress to serve the contemplated use of the land; that utilities and other services to the land are adequate; and that the condition and grade of the soils have been examined to determine if any conditions exist which would require extraordinary site work or foundation systems.

(c) Title and Survey. An ALTA survey shall be prepared for the land and an examination of title to the land shall be conducted by a licensed attorney or, in the alternative, a commitment for title insurance shall be procured from a title insurance company authorized to do business in the Commonwealth of Virginia. Based upon the survey and title examination or report, the President or his designee shall conclude, prior to acquisition of the land, that title to the land will be conveyed to the University in fee simple, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, covenants, restrictions, easements or other matters which may have a significant adverse effect upon the University's ability to own, occupy, convey or develop the land.

(d) Appraisal. An appraisal shall be conducted of the land to determine its fair market value and the consistency of the fair market value with the price agreed upon by the University.

VIII. Capital Project Compliance With The Code Of Virginia

Among the requirements of the enabling legislation is that, notwithstanding the delegation of limited, post-appropriation autonomy to the University regarding University-wide and Medical Center capital projects, all such projects must nevertheless comply with the provisions of the Code of Virginia regarding capital projects, excluding only the review, approval, policy and procedure functions of central State agencies which are referenced in the enabling legislation.

It therefore shall be the policy of the University that capital projects shall be implemented so as to comply with the requirements of the Code of Virginia and the Appropriation Act applicable to capital projects, including those enacted in the future, except to the extent the Code of Virginia or the Appropriation Act exempts such projects from those requirements. The President or his designee shall take all necessary and reasonable steps to assure (i) that University officials responsible for the implementation of capital projects are knowledgeable regarding the requirements of the Code of Virginia and the Appropriation Act regarding capital projects, and (ii) that compliance is achieved.

IX. Environmental Impact Reports

The Board is cognizant that the Department of Environmental Quality is authorized pursuant to provisions of Title 10.1 of the Code of Virginia to require all state agencies to submit an environmental impact report ("EIR") for any state project which involves (i) the acquisition of any interest in land for any state facility construction or (ii) the construction of any facility or the expansion of any facility if such acquisition or construction costs $100,000 or more. Accordingly, it is the policy of the University of Virginia that, in all cases in which an EIR is required but has not been filed with DEQ during budget development, no land acquisition shall take place and no construction on such land or previously acquired land shall be commenced for any capital project until the University has complied with the EIR requirements as set forth in the Code of Virginia and the DEQ guidelines and has done so in a timely manner so as not to adversely affect the project.

X. Project Inspections And Certification For Occupancy

(a) Medical Center Projects. Building Code and fire safety inspections shall be conducted for all Medical Center capital projects, and the State Fire Marshal or his designee shall inspect projects prior to certification for occupancy by the University's Assistant State Building Official ("ASBO"). The ASBO will be responsible to the Board of Visitors for insuring that necessary plan reviews and inspections are conducted prior to certification for occupancy. The Chief Facilities Officer will be the University ASBO as long as the incumbent is a registered professional engineer or architect; the ASBO shall maintain a staff of registered professionals in the major engineering disciplines and architecture who will perform the required reviews and inspections.

(b) Non-Medical Center Capital Projects. For any University capital project other than a Medical Center capital project, the Department of General Services, acting through the Division of Engineering and Buildings, shall continue to function as the State Building Official pursuant to  36-98.1 of the Code of Virginia.

XI. Reporting Requirements

The President or his designee shall report to the Department of General Services on the status of any capital project prior to the commencement of construction and at the time of acceptance of any such capital project. In addition, the President or his designee shall promptly comply with any request for a report on the status of any capital project made by the Governor or the General Assembly pursuant to  2.1-403 and 2.1-404 of the Code of Virginia, respectively.

POLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING EXERCISE OF AUTONOMY IN LEASES OF PROPERTY Attachment BTHE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING EXERCISE OF AUTONOMY IN LEASES OF PROPERTYTABLE OF CONTENTS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

I.

Preamble

1

II.

Definitions

2

III.

Scope of Policy

3

IV.

Requirements for Leases

4

A. Factors To Be Considered When Entering Into Leases

4

B. Competition to Be Sought to Maximum Practicable Degree

4

C. Procurement of Leases

4

D. Approval of Form of Lease Required

5

E. Execution of Leases

5

F. University as Lessor

5

G. Compliance with Other Provisions of Law

6

H. Certification of Occupancy

7

I. Copies of Leases and Amendments Forwarded to Department of General Services

7

J. Implementation of Board of Visitors Policies, Procedures and Guidelines

7

TABLE OF CONTENTSPAGEI.Preamble1II.Definitions2III.Scope of Policy3IV.Requirements for Leases4A. Factors To Be Considered When Entering Into Leases4B. Competition to Be Sought to Maximum Practicable Degree4C. Procurement of Leases4D. Approval of Form of Lease Required5E. Execution of Leases5F. University as Lessor5G. Compliance with Other Provisions of Law6H. Certification of Occupancy7I. Copies of Leases and Amendments Forwarded to Department of General Services7J. Implementation of Board of Visitors Policies, Procedures and Guidelines7

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING EXERCISE OF AUTONOMY IN LEASES OF PROPERTY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I. Preamble

Chapters 995 and 933 of the 1996 Virginia Acts of Assembly (House Bill No. 884 and Senate Bill No. 389, respectively) provide that, subject to certain conditions established in subsection 2 of  23-77.4 of the legislation, operating leases entered into by the University of Virginia on behalf of the University of Virginia Medical Center shall be exempt from  2.1-504.2 of the Code of Virginia and from any rules, regulations and guidelines of the Commonwealth's Division of Engineering and Buildings in relation to leases of real property from others. Contracts entered into by the University on behalf of the Medical Center are also exempted from  2.1-511 and 23-4.1 of the Code of Virginia in relation to leases of Medical Center real or personal property to others. Exercise of this autonomy in entering into operating leases is to be in compliance with policies, procedures and guidelines adopted by the Board of Visitors which are to direct that competition be sought to the maximum practical degree, that all costs of occupancy are to be considered, and that the use of the space to be leased is necessary and is efficiently planned. Subsection C of  4-5.08 of the 1996-98 Appropriation Act delegates to the University as a whole the authority granted the Governor and the Commonwealth's Department of General Services ("DGS") in  2.1-504.2 of the Code of Virginia regarding operating leases for the University other than the Medical Center. This latter delegation supplants the supervisory role of DGS which is established pursuant to  2.1-504.2, the provisions of which have been implemented by policies, procedures and guidelines promulgated by DGS pursuant to this section of the Code of Virginia. This latter delegation of authority is subject to certain conditions, the foremost of which is that the Board of Visitors must develop and submit policies, procedures and guidelines governing operating leases by the University for approval by the Secretaries of Finance and Administration by September 1, 1996.

The following provisions of this policy statement constitute the adopted Board of Visitors policies, procedures and guidelines required by the enabling legislation regarding operating leases entered into by the University on behalf of the Medical Center or on behalf of any other part of the University.

II. Definitions

The following words and terms, when used in this policy statement, shall have the following meaning unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

"Board of Visitors" means the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

"Enabling legislation" means Chapters 995 and 933 of the 1996 Virginia Acts of Assembly (House Bill No. 884 and Senate Bill No. 389, respectively) and  4-5.08 of the 1996-98 Appropriation Act.

"Operating Lease" means a leasehold interest in real property, or improvements thereon, which is not a Capital Lease as the term "Capital Lease" is defined within Generally Accepted Accounting Principles pursuant to the pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board.

"University" means the University of Virginia, including the Medical Center unless otherwise expressly stated.

"University of Virginia Medical Center" or the "Medical Center" means that part of the University of Virginia Health Sciences Center consisting of the University of Virginia Hospital, referenced in the 1996-98 Appropriation Act as Agency 209, and related health care and health maintenance facilities.

III. Scope of Policy

Except as provided in Section IV(F), this policy statement applies only to operating leases of real property. This policy statement does not apply to capital leases as defined in guidelines established by the Secretary of Finance and as defined in the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Unless expressly stated otherwise, this policy statement applies University-wide; provided, however, for non-Medical Center leases, this policy statement is applicable only during the 1996-98 biennium unless extended or continued by subsequent act of the General Assembly.

IV. Requirements for Leases

A. Factors To Be Considered When Entering Into Leases

The decision to enter into a lease shall be based upon cost, demonstrated need, compliance with the policies, procedures and guidelines established in this policy statement, consideration of all costs of occupancy, and a determination that the use of the space to be leased actually is necessary and is efficiently planned. Leases shall also conform to the space planning procedures, if any, which may be adopted by the President or his designee to ensure that the plan for the space to be leased is consistent with the purpose for which the space is intended.

B. Competition to Be Sought to Maximum Practicable Degree

Competition shall be sought to the maximum practicable degree when the University seeks to lease real property from another party. The President or his designee is authorized to ensure that leases by the University are procured through competition to the maximum degree practicable and to determine when, under guidelines that may be developed and adopted by the President or his designee, it is impractical to procure leases through competition.

C. Procurement of Leases

Except where competition is deemed impractical pursuant to Sections IV(B) and IV(F) of this policy statement: (i) leases entered into by the University on behalf of the Medical Center shall be procured as provided in the University of Virginia Medical Center Procurement Guidelines, 8 VAC 85-10-10 et. seq., and (ii) leases entered into by the University for non-Medical Center purposes shall be procured in a manner which complies with the provisions of the Virginia Public Procurement Act,  11-35 et seq. of the Code of Virginia.

D. Approval of Form of Lease Required

1\. The form of leases entered into by the University on behalf of the Medical Center shall be approved by the Special Assistant Attorney General representing the University.

2\. The form of leases entered into by the University for non-Medical Center leases shall be approved by the Attorney General or his designee.

E. Execution of Leases

All operating leases entered into by the University and all leases entered into pursuant to Section IV(F) shall be executed by the person or persons designated by the President or his designee.

F. University as Lessor

When Medical Center property is leased by the University to another party, the following guidelines shall apply:

1\. Such leases shall be for a purpose consistent with the mission of the Medical Center;

2\. The President or his designee shall determine, on a case-by-case basis or through the issuance of general guidelines, when such leases shall be procured through competition and when the procurement of such leases through competition is impractical or not warranted; and

3\. Both real and personal property of the Medical Center may be leased to another party.

G. Compliance with Other Provisions of Law

The enabling legislation requires that all leases entered into by the University on behalf of the Medical Center shall meet all requirements of law except those from which such leases have been exempted. While the Medical Center is exempted from Article 5 of Chapter 32 of Title 2.1, the Appropriation Act does not exempt leases entered into by the University for non-Medical Center functions from Article 5. The provisions of  10.1-1188 of the Code of Virginia governing Environmental Impact Reviews remain applicable to all University leases which otherwise trigger the requirements of that section. In addition,  11-72 through 11-80 of the Virginia Public Procurement Act (Ethics in Public Contracting), the State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act,  2.1-639.1 et seq., and the Virginia Governmental Frauds Act, 18.2-498.1 et. seq. of the Code of Virginia, continue to apply to all leases.

It therefore shall be the policy of the University that leases governed by these guidelines shall be entered into so as to comply with the requirements of the Code of Virginia and the Appropriation Act and other provisions of law applicable to leases, including those enacted in the future, except to the extent the Code of Virginia or the Appropriation Act exempt such leases from such requirements.

H. Certification of Occupancy

All property leased by the University pursuant to these guidelines shall be certified for occupancy by the building official of the appropriate public body.

I. Copies of Leases and Amendments Forwarded to Department of General Services

Upon entering leases, and upon any subsequent amendment of such leases, the University shall provide copies of all lease documents and any attachments thereto to the Department of General Services.

J. Implementation of Board of Visitors Policies, Procedures and Guidelines

The President or his designee is authorized to take such measures as are reasonable and necessary to implement the provisions of these policies, procedures and guidelines and to ensure compliance therewith.

POLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING EXERCISE OF PROCUREMENT AUTONOMY BY THE UNIVERSITY ON BEHALF OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER (MEDICAL CENTER PROCUREMENT GUIDELINES) Attachment CTHE RECTOR AND BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING EXERCISE OF PROCUREMENT AUTONOMY BY THE UNIVERSITY ON BEHALF OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER (MEDICAL CENTER PROCUREMENT GUIDELINES)TABLE OF CONTENTSTransmittal Sheet PROPOSED Action on Regulations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Article 1. Definitions

1

8 VAC 85-10-10. Definitions

1

Article 2. General Provisions

2

8 VAC 85-10-20. General Provisions.

2

8 VAC 85-10-30. Continued Applicability of Other Board of Visitors' Policies Affecting Procurements and Capital Projects

4

8 VAC-85-10-40. Scope and Purpose of Medical Center Procurement Guidelines

4

Article 3. Medical Center Procurement Guidelines

5

8 VAC-85-10-50. General Competitive Principles

5

8 VAC-85-10-60. Access to Records

6

8 VAC-85-10-70. Training; Ethics in Contracting

6

8 VAC-85-10-80. Procurements May Serve Medical Center and Other University Needs

7

8 VAC-85-10-90. Cooperative Procurements and Alliances

7

8 VAC-85-10-100. Exemption for Contracts Entered into Pursuant to 23-77.3 of the Code of Virginia

8

8 VAC-85-10-110. Code of Virginia Provisions Still Applicable to Medical Center Procurements

8

Article 4. Adoption Process and Effective Dates for Implementing Procedures

9

8 VAC-85-10-120. Adoption and Effective Dates of Implementing Procedures and Interim Implementing Procedures

9

Article 5. Requirements for Implementing Procedures

11

8 VAC-85-10-130. Protests, Appeals and Debarment

11

8 VAC-85-10-140. Prompt Payment of Contractors and Subcontractors

12

8 VAC-85-10-150. Types of Procurements

13

8 VAC-85-10-160. Approval and Public Notice of Procurements

13

8 VAC-85-10-170. Administration of Contracts

14

8 VAC-85-10-180. Non-Discrimination

14

Article 6. Severability

14

8 VAC-85-10-190. Severability

14

TABLE OF CONTENTSPAGEArticle 1. Definitions18 VAC 85-10-10. Definitions1Article 2. General Provisions28 VAC 85-10-20. General Provisions.28 VAC 85-10-30. Continued Applicability of Other Board of Visitors' Policies Affecting Procurements and Capital Projects48 VAC-85-10-40. Scope and Purpose of Medical Center Procurement Guidelines4Article 3. Medical Center Procurement Guidelines58 VAC-85-10-50. General Competitive Principles58 VAC-85-10-60. Access to Records68 VAC-85-10-70. Training; Ethics in Contracting68 VAC-85-10-80. Procurements May Serve Medical Center and Other University Needs78 VAC-85-10-90. Cooperative Procurements and Alliances78 VAC-85-10-100. Exemption for Contracts Entered into Pursuant to 23-77.3 of the Code of Virginia88 VAC-85-10-110. Code of Virginia Provisions Still Applicable to Medical Center Procurements8Article 4. Adoption Process and Effective Dates for Implementing Procedures98 VAC-85-10-120. Adoption and Effective Dates of Implementing Procedures and Interim Implementing Procedures9Article 5. Requirements for Implementing Procedures118 VAC-85-10-130. Protests, Appeals and Debarment118 VAC-85-10-140. Prompt Payment of Contractors and Subcontractors12

8 VAC-85-10-150. Types of Procurements138 VAC-85-10-160. Approval and Public Notice of Procurements138 VAC-85-10-170. Administration of Contracts148 VAC-85-10-180. Non-Discrimination14Article 6. Severability148 VAC-85-10-190. Severability14

COMMONWEALTH of VIRGINIA Office of the Attorney General Richmond 23219 James S. Gilmore, III Attorney General 900 East Main Street Richmond, Virginia 23219 804 - 786 - 2071 804 - 371 - 8946 TDD May 7, 1996
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ms. Jane Chaffin

Assistant Registrar

Virginia Code Commission

Registrar of Regulations

910 Capitol Street, 2nd Floor

Richmond, Virginia 23219

Re: Proposed Medical Center Procurement Guidelines

Dear Ms. Chaffin:

The University of Virginia is filing with the Registrar of Regulations, for publication in the Virginia Register under Va. Code  9-6.14:22, procurement guidelines for the University of Virginia Medical Center; this letter forms a part of the submission packet for these proposed regulations. The University has statutory authority to promulgate these regulations under Chapters 995 and 933 of the 1996 Acts of the Virginia General Assembly, which exempts contracts awarded by the University of Virginia on behalf of its Medical Center from the State's procurement laws, provided that the University's Board of Directors adopts procurement guidelines that are based on competitive principles, seek competition to the highest degree, and address certain other specific concerns set out in the statute. The proposed guidelines to be filed by the University comply with these requirements, and thus the University's Board of Visitors has statutory authority to promulgate them.

The guidelines promulgated by the University's Board of Visitors are exempt from the Administrative Process Act under Va. Code  9-6.14:4.1(A)(6), which exempts regulations of educational institutions operated by the Commonwealth, provided that they publish any regulations that do not concern academic, faculty or student affairs in the Virginia Register as required by  9-6.14:22. Since these procurement guidelines do not concern academic, faculty or student affairs, we have advised the University to seek publication.

Please call me if you have any questions.

CHAPTER 10 UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER PROCUREMENT GUIDELINES SUMMARY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This proposed regulation (8 VAC 85-10-10 et. seq.) sets out guidelines for procurements of goods, services, including professional services, and construction, by the University of Virginia on behalf of the University of Virginia Medical Center. The guidelines require the University to seek competition to the maximum practical degree in Medical Center procurements (excepting only contracts entered into in connection with joint ventures covered by Va. Code  23-77.3); they also encourage joint procurement with other University departments and with outside organizations, and provide that procurement records are available to the public consistent with the Virginia Freedom of Information Act. The guidelines direct the University administration to adopt procurement procedures to implement the guidelines, and further direct that until the Administration is able to do so, the provisions of the Commonwealth of Virginia Purchasing Manual for Institutions of Higher Education be used as interim procedures for non-capital outlay-related procurements, and that relevant provisions of the Virginia Public Procurement Act be used as interim procedures for capital outlay-related procurements (i.e., construction and capital outlay-related professional services). The guidelines specify that the procedures shall include processes for vendor protests and appeals, provisions for prompt payment including interest on outstanding invoices, a system of competitive negotiation for professional services, and purchasing equipment procedures to maximize competition, consistent with the Medical Center's needs for sole source and other types of special procurements.

CHAPTER 10 THE RECTOR AND BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING EXERCISE OF PROCUREMENT AUTONOMY BY THE UNIVERSITY ON BEHALF OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER (MEDICAL CENTER PROCUREMENT GUIDELINES)Article 1. Definitions.Article 2. General Provisions.Article 3. Medical Center Procurement Guidelines.Article 4. Adoption Process and Effective Dates for Implementing Procedures.Article 5 Requirements for Implementing ProceduresArticle 6 Severability.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

8 VAC 85-10-10. Definitions.

The following words and terms, when used in this regulation, shall have the following meaning unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

"Board of Visitors" means the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

"Enabling legislation" means Chapters 995 and 933 of the 1996 Virginia Acts of Assembly (House Bill No. 884 and Senate Bill No. 389, respectively).

"Implementing procedures" or "Procedures" means the comprehensive set of specific procurement procedures governed by Articles 4 and 5 of this Chapter.

"University" means the University of Virginia.

"University of Virginia Medical Center" or the "Medical Center" means that part of the University of Virginia Health Sciences Center consisting of the University of Virginia Hospital, referenced in the 1996-98 Appropriation Act as Agency 209, and related health care and health maintenance facilities.

8 VAC 85-10-20. General Provisions.

A. Chapters 995 and 933 of the 1996 Virginia Acts of Assembly (House Bill No. 884 and Senate Bill No. 389, respectively) provide that contracts awarded by the University of Virginia on behalf of the University of Virginia Medical Center for the procurement of goods, services, including professional services, and construction shall be exempt from the procurement laws of the Commonwealth, provided that the Board of Visitors of the University adopts guidelines that are generally applicable to such procurements by the Medical Center or by the University on behalf of the Medical Center. The guidelines are to be based upon competitive principles, include certain specific principles and practices enumerated in the enabling legislation and, in each instance, seek competition to the maximum practical degree.

B. The enabling legislation exempts such procurements and contracts from the Virginia Public Procurement Act. 11-35 et seq, of the Code of Virginia, except that the following provisions of that Act continue to apply; 11-49, 11-51, 11-52 (which section shall not be construed to require compliance with the prequalification application procedures of subsection B of 11-46), 11-54, 11-56 through 11-61, and 11-72 through 11-80. The enabling legislation also exempts such procurements and contracts from Article 3 (2.1-435 et seq.) of Chapter 32 of Title 2.1 of the Code of Virginia, regarding the duties and responsibilities of the Division of Purchases and Supply of the Virginia Department of General Services and from Article 5 (2.1-480 et seq.) of Chapter 32 of Title 2.1 of the Code of Virginia regarding the review and approval by the Division of Engineering and Buildings of the Virginia Department of General Services of contracts for the construction of Medical Center capital projects.

C. The provisions of this policy statement set forth below constitute the adopted Board of Visitors procurement guidelines required by the enabling legislation regarding contracts awarded by the University on behalf of the Medical Center.

8 VAC 85-10-30. Continued Applicability of Other Board of Visitors' Policies Affecting Procurements and Capital Projects.

These guidelines and any procedures adopted by the President or his designee to implement these guidelines shall continue to be subject to (i) any other policies adopted by the Board of Visitors affecting procurements at the University, including policies regarding the nature and amounts of procurements which may be undertaken without the approval of the Board of Visitors, or of the President or his designee, and (ii) with regard to the procurement of construction and construction-related professional services, any other policies adopted by the Board of Visitors affecting capital projects. Should the new Procedures conflict with existing policies of the Board, the existing policies shall control. 8 VAC-85-10-40. Scope and Purpose of Medical Center Procurement Guidelines.

The guidelines contained in this policy statement apply to contracts awarded by the University on behalf of the Medical Center for the procurement of goods, services, including professional services, and construction. It shall be the policy of the University that Medical Center procurements conducted by the University result in the purchase of high quality goods, services and construction at reasonable prices, and that the Medical Center be free, to the maximum extent permitted by law and these guidelines, from constraining regulations which hinder the ability of the Medical Center to do business in a competitive environment. These guidelines shall apply to all procurements undertaken by the University on behalf of the Medical Center, regardless of the source of funds.

8 VAC-85-10-50. General Competitive Principles.

In connection with Medical Center procurements and the processes leading to award of contracts, the University is committed to:

1\. seeking competition to the maximum practical degree, taking into account the size of the anticipated procurement the term of the resulting contract and the likely extent of competition;

2\. conducting all procurements in a fair and impartial manner and avoiding any impropriety or the appearance of any impropriety;

3\. making procurement rules clear in advance of any competition;

4\. giving access to the Medical Center's business to all qualified vendors, firms and contractors, with no potential bidder or offeror excluded arbitrarily or capriciously, while allowing the flexibility to engage in cooperative procurements and to meet special needs of the Medical Center;

5\. ensuring that specifications for purchases are fairly drawn so as not to favor unduly a particular vendor; and

6\. providing for the free exchange of information between the Medical Center, the remainder of the University, and vendors, firms or contractors concerning the goods, services or construction sought and offered, while preserving the confidentiality of proprietary information.

8 VAC-85-10-60. Access to Records.

Purchasing and procurement records shall be available to citizens or to interested persons, firms or corporations in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, 2.1-340 et seq., and 11-52 of the Code of Virginia, except those records exempt from disclosure pursuant to 2.1-342(B)(62) or other sections of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act.

8 VAC-85-10-70. Training; Ethics in Contracting.

The President or his designee shall take all necessary and reasonable steps to assure (i) that all Medical Center and other University officials responsible for and engaged in procurements authorized by the enabling legislation and these guidelines are knowledgeable regarding the requirements of the enabling legislation, these guidelines and 11-72 through 11-80 of the Code of Virginia (Ethics in Public Contracting), (ii) that only officials authorized by these guidelines and any procedures adopted by the President or his designee to implement these guidelines are responsible for and engaged in such procurements, and (iii) that compliance with the enabling legislation and these guidelines is achieved.

8 VAC-85-10-80. Procurements May Serve Medical Center and Other University Needs.

To the extent it is economically beneficial and lawful to do so, and in conformity with these guidelines, the Medical Center is encouraged to participate with other units of the University in the joint procurement of goods and services.

8 VAC-85-10-90. Cooperative Procurements and Alliances.

The University on behalf of the Medical Center may participate in cooperative procurements with other educational institutions, charitable organizations, health care provider alliances and purchasing organizations where the purposes of these guidelines will be furthered.

8 VAC-85-10-100. Exemption for Contracts Entered into Pursuant to 23-77.3 of the Code of Virginia.

Upon a finding in writing by the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences or his designee that a proposed contract falls within the provisions of 23-77.3 of the Code of Virginia the Medical Center may enter into the contracts and ventures authorized by that section without competition. Such contracts and ventures, however, still shall be subject to approval of the President and the Board of Visitors.

8 VAC-85-10-110. Code of Virginia Provisions Still Applicable to Medical Center Procurements.

In implementing the authority conferred by these guidelines, the personnel administering any procurement shall adhere to the following provisions of the Virginia Public Procurement Act. including any amendments thereto; 11-49 (use of brand names); 11-51 (prohibiting employment discrimination by contractors); 11-52 (public inspection of certain records) (this section shall not be construed to require compliance with the prequalification application procedures of subsection B of 11-46); 11-54 (withdrawal of bids due to error); 11-56 through 11-61 (provisions dealing with construction contracts and payment and performance bonds on such contracts); and 11-72 through 11-80 (Ethics in Public Contracting). University personnel also are advised that other provisions of law, including the State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act. 2.1-639.1 et seq. of the Code of Virginia, and the Virginia Governmental Frauds Act, 18.2-498.1 et seq. of the Code of Virginia, continue to apply to all procurements.

8 VAC-85-10-120. Adoption and Effective Dates of Implementing Procedures and Interim Implementing Procedures.

A. The President, acting through the Executive Vice President in consultation with the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences, shall adopt a comprehensive set of specific procurement procedures (the "Procedures"), which implement applicable provisions of law and these guidelines. The Procedures (i) shall include the delegation of procurement authority to appropriate University officials who will oversee University purchases on behalf of the Medical Center of goods, services, including professional services, and construction, including a grant of authority to such officials to engage in further delegation of authority as the President deems appropriate, and (ii) shall be consistent with and implement the requirements of these guidelines and the provisions of 23-77.4 of the Code of Virginia.

B. These guidelines shall be effective July 1, 1996, and, as of their effective date, shall be applicable to all procurements undertaken by the University on behalf of the Medical Center for goods, services, including professional services, and construction. Existing contracts may continue to be used after that date. Since, however, the Procedures are not anticipated to be developed and adopted prior to July 1, 1996, interim procedures to implement these guidelines are needed. Therefore, by July 1, 1996 and until thirty days following the submission of the Procedures to the Board of Visitors, the President or his designee shall implement these guidelines by adopting, on an interim basis, procurement procedures that (i) incorporate with any necessary modification the Commonwealth of Virginia Purchasing Manual for Institutions of Higher Education and Their Vendors (the "Purchasing Manual") for all procurements of goods and services other than construction and construction-related professional services, and (ii) incorporate the provisions of the Virginia Public Procurement Act. 11-35 et seq. of the Code of Virginia (but not the policies or procedures of any other state agency administering the Virginia Public Procurement Act) for all procurements of construction and construction-related professional services. Thus, on an interim basis, the University will continue to act on behalf of the Medical Center pursuant to the Purchasing Manual for purchases other than capital outlay. The provisions of the Virginia Public Procurement Act incorporated by reference into the interim implementing procedures will apply to procurements related to capital outlay (i.e., construction and capital outlay-related professional services).

C. The interim implementing procurement procedures shall remain in effect until the expiration of thirty days following submission of the Procedures to the Board of Visitors. After that date, (i) the Purchasing Manual and the Virginia Public Procurement Act provisions incorporated herein by reference shall no longer apply, other than as set forth in these guidelines, and (ii) these guidelines shall apply as implemented by the Procedures to all procurements by the University on behalf of the Medical Center for goods, services, including professional services, and construction.

8 VAC-85-10-130. Protests, Appeals and Debarment.

The Procedures for procurements other than capital outlay shall include a process or processes for an administrative appeal by vendors, firms or contractors, consisting of a protest to a person designated by the President, and thereafter an appeal to a procurement appeals board appointed by the President. Procurements for capital outlay projects shall include a dispute resolution process which may include an appearance before a person appointed by the President. Protests and appeals may challenge determinations of vendor, firm or contractor non-responsibility or ineligibility, or award of contracts, provided that such protests and appeals are filed within the times specified by the Procedures. Remedies available shall be limited to reversal of the action challenged. The Procedures also may establish the basis and process for debarment of any vendor, firm or contractor.

8 VAC-85-10-140. Prompt Payment of Contractors and Subcontractors

The Procedures shall include provisions related to prompt payment of outstanding invoices which shall include payment of interest on properly-presented invoices outstanding more than fourteen (14) days beyond the payment date, at a rate no higher than the lowest prime rate charged by any commercial bank as published in the Wall Street Journal. The payment date shall be the later of thirty (30) days from the date of the receipt of goods or invoice, or the date established by the contract. The Procedures shall include compliance with the set off procedures of the Virginia Debt Collection Act. 2.1-726 et seq. of the Code of Virginia, and shall require an annual report to the Board of Visitors of interest paid during each fiscal year. All contracts also shall require prompt payment of subcontractors by the general contractor, upon receipt of payment by the University.

8 VAC-85-10-150. Types of Procurements.

The Procedures shall implement a system of competitive negotiation for professional services, as defined in the Procedures, and shall implement purchasing procedures developed to maximize competition, given the size and duration of the contract, and the needs of the Medical Center. Such procedures may include special provisions for procurements such as emergency procurements, sole source procurements, brand name procurements, small purchases, procurements in which only one qualified vendor responds, and others.

8 VAC-85-10-160. Approval and Public Notice of Procurements.

The Procedures shall provide for approval of solicitation documents by an authorized individual and for reasonable public notice of procurements, given the size and nature of the need and the applicability of any Virginia Freedom of Information Act exemption.

8 VAC-85-10-170. Administration of Contracts.

The Procedures shall contain provisions related to the administration of contracts, including contract claims, modifications, extensions and assignments.

8 VAC-85-10-180. Non-Discrimination.

The Procedures shall prohibit employment discrimination by vendors, firms and contractors, shall provide for a non-discriminatory procurement process and shall include appropriate provisions for involvement of minority and disadvantaged business enterprises.

8 VAC-85-10-190. Severability.

The provisions of this policy statement and guidelines promulgated under the enabling legislation or the interim implementing procedures or the implementing procedures promulgated pursuant to this policy statement and these guidelines, or the application thereof to any person or circumstances, which are held invalid shall not affect the validity of other regulations, guidelines, procedures, provisions or applications which can be given effect without the invalid regulations, guidelines, procedures, provisions or applications.

Please note that the pages in the Policy Statement Governing the Exercise of Medical Center Personnel Autonomy have been misnumbered. No pages are missing, however, and this mistake should not affect a reading of the document. After page 5, the accurate page number is one less than the number indicated at the bottom of each page. All other policies are numbered correctly.

POLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING THE EXERCISE OF MEDICAL CENTER PERSONNEL AUTONOMY Attachment DTHE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POLICY STATEMENT GOVERNING THE EXERCISE OF MEDICAL CENTER PERSONNEL AUTONOMYTABLE OF CONTENTS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

I.

Preamble

1

II.

Definitions

2

III.

Scope and Purpose of Medical Center Personnel Policies

2

IV.

Medical Center Personnel System

4

A. Adoption and Implementation of Medical Center Personnel System

4

B. Training in and Compliance with Applicable Provisions of Law and Board of Visitors' Personnel Policies

5

V.

Medical Center Personnel Policies

5

A. Classification and Compensation

6

1\. General

6

2\. Classification Plan

6

3\. Compensation Plan

6

4\. Promotions

7

5\. Wages

7

6\. Payment of Compensation

8

7\. Work Schedule and Workweek

8

8\. Other Classification and Compensation Policies and Procedures

8

B. Benefits

8

C. Employee Relations

9

1\. General

9

2\. Employee Safety and Health

9

3\. Employee Work Environment

9

4\. Employee Recognition

9

5\. Counseling Services

10

6\. Unemployment Compensation

10

7\. Performance Planning and Evaluation

10

8\. Standards of Conduct and Performance

11

9\. State Grievance Procedure

12

10\. Layoff Policy

12

11\. Severance Benefits

13

12\. Use of Alcohol and Other Drugs

13

13\. Criminal Records Check

14

14\. Other Employee Relations Policies and Procedures

14

D. Leave and Release Time

14

1\. Leave

14

2\. Release Time

15

3\. Leave and Release Time Programs

15

E. Employment and Termination

15

1\. Equal Employment Opportunity and Nondiscrimination

15

2\. Hiring Process

16

3\. Notice of Separation

16

VI.

Continued Applicability of Other Provisions of the Code of Virginia and Other Board of Visitors' Polices Affecting University Personnel

16

TABLE OF CONTENTSPAGEI.Preamble1II.Definitions2III.Scope and Purpose of Medical Center Personnel Policies2IV.Medical Center Personnel System4A. Adoption and Implementation of Medical Center Personnel System4B. Training in and Compliance with Applicable Provisions of Law and Board of Visitors' Personnel Policies5V.Medical Center Personnel Policies5A. Classification and Compensation61. General62. Classification Plan63. Compensation Plan64. Promotions75. Wages76. Payment of Compensation87. Work Schedule and Workweek88. Other Classification and Compensation Policies and Procedures8B. Benefits8C. Employee Relations91. General92. Employee Safety and Health93. Employee Work Environment94. Employee Recognition95. Counseling Services106. Unemployment Compensation10

7\. Performance Planning and Evaluation108. Standards of Conduct and Performance119. State Grievance Procedure1210. Layoff Policy1211. Severance Benefits1312. Use of Alcohol and Other Drugs1313. Criminal Records Check1414. Other Employee Relations Policies and Procedures14D. Leave and Release Time141. Leave142. Release Time153. Leave and Release Time Programs15E. Employment and Termination151. Equal Employment Opportunity and Nondiscrimination152. Hiring Process163. Notice of Separation16VI.Continued Applicability of Other Provisions of the Code of Virginia and Other Board of Visitors' Polices Affecting University Personnel16

Center have been exempt from the Virginia Personnel Act. Furthermore, in 1987, the General Assembly granted the University limited personnel system autonomy for Medical Center employees who were determined by the State Department of Personnel and Training to be "health care providers." Specifically, health care providers were exempted from the Virginia Personnel Act, but they were still subject to Chapter 10.01 of Title 2.1, 2.1-116.01 et seq. of the Code of Virginia governing the State grievance procedure, and any changes in their compensation plans were subject to the review and approval of the Secretary of Education of Virginia.

Under the enabling legislation, the prior exemption for health care providers has been deleted and the provisions of the enabling legislation set forth in Part I above now apply to all Medical Center employees. Effective July 1, 1996, therefore, all Medical Center employees will be exempt from the Virginia Personnel Act and the policies and procedures of the State Department of Personnel and Training. Although there is an alternative Medical Center personnel system currently in place for health care providers, and a separate personnel system in place for general faculty, there is no personnel system in place, other than the Virginia Personnel Act and the policies and procedures of the State Department of Personnel and Training, for other Medical Center employees.

This policy statement therefore is adopted by the Board of Visitors to enable the University to develop, adopt, and have in place by July 1, 1996, a personnel system for all Medical Center employees.

IV. Medical Center Personnel System

A. Adoption and Implementation of Medical Center Personnel System

The President, acting through the Executive Vice President in consultation with the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences, shall adopt and implement a personnel system for Medical Center employees (the "Medical Center Personnel System" or the "System") that implements and is consistent with the enabling legislation, other applicable provisions of law, these Medical Center personnel policies, and any other personnel polices adopted by the Board of Visitors for University personnel, unless Medical Center employees are specifically exempted from those other personnel policies. The University document establishing the Medical Center Personnel System shall include a delegation of personnel authority to appropriate University officials who will oversee the Medical Center Personnel System for the University, including a grant of authority to such officials to engage in further delegation of authority as the President or his designee deems appropriate.

Effective July 1, 1996, and until amended by the President or his designee consistent with these Medical Center personnel policies, the Medical Center Personnel System shall consist of the following:

1\. The current alternative University personnel system for general faculty in the Medical Center, as contained in the University of Virginia Faculty Handbook (1994) and the Provost's Office Handbook, as those documents shall from time-to-time be amended; and

2\. The current alternative University personnel system, as set forth in the University of Virginia Human Resources Policies and Procedures Manual, for (i) health care providers, and for (ii) other Medical Center employees who are not general faculty or health care providers.

B. Training in and Compliance with Applicable Provisions of Law and Board of Visitors' Personnel Policies

The President or his designee shall take all necessary and reasonable steps to assure (i) that the University officials who develop, implement and administer the Medical Center Personnel System authorized by the enabling legislation and these Medical Center personnel policies are knowledgeable regarding the requirements of the enabling legislation, other applicable provisions of law, these Medical Center personnel policies, and other applicable Board of Visitors' personnel policies affecting University personnel, and (ii) that compliance with such laws and personnel policies is achieved.

V. Medical Center Personnel Policies

Any new Medical Center Personnel System adopted by the University for the Medical Center pursuant to the enabling legislation and this policy statement, as set forth in Part IV above, shall embody the following personnel policies and principles:

A. Classification and Compensation

1\. General. The System shall include classification and compensation plans that are fair and equitable to Medical Center employees and are based on the availability of Medical Center financial resources. The plans adopted by the Medical Center shall be independent of, and need not be based on, the classification and compensation plans of the Commonwealth or of the remainder of the University, subject to the review and approval by the Board of Visitors set forth in paragraph 3 below for changes in Medical Center compensation plans. The Medical Center shall provide information on its classification and compensation plans to all Medical Center employees, including notice that the Medical Center may, or may not, adopt changes in classification or compensation announced by the Commonwealth for its employees who are subject to the Virginia Personnel Act, depending on such factors as the availability to the Medical Center of the necessary financial resources to fund any such changes, and subject to the review and approval by the Board of Visitors of any changes in the Medical Center's compensation plans.

2\. Classification Plan. The System shall include a classification plan for Medical Center employees that classifies positions in the Medical Center according to job responsibilities and qualifications.

3\. Compensation Plan. The System shall include a compensation plan for each Medical Center employee classification or group. The System shall establish standard rates of pay for each Medical Center classification, when appropriate, including part-time or wage employees. Effective July 1, 1996, and until changed by the Medical Center, the compensation plan for Medical Center employees shall be the compensation plan in effect for each classification or group of Medical Center employees on June 30, 1996, including the current Graded Pay Plan for any classification. Any change in a compensation plan shall be reviewed and approved by the Board of Visitors before that change may become effective. Any change recommended in a Medical Center employee compensation plan may take into account the prevailing rates in the labor market for the jobs in question, or for similar positions, the relative value of jobs, internal equity, and the availability to the Medical Center of the necessary financial resources to fund the proposed change. Where feasible, a compensation survey shall be conducted of the jobs to be affected.

4\. Promotions. In order to encourage employees to attain the highest level positions for which they are qualified, and to compensate employees for accepting positions of increased value and responsibility, the System shall include policies and procedures governing the promotion of employees, including the effect of promotion on an employee's compensation.

5\. Wages. The System shall include policies and procedures for the authorization, computation and payment of wages, where appropriate, for such premium pays as overtime, shift differential, on call, and call back, and for the payment of hourly employees.

6\. Payment of Compensation. The System shall include policies and procedures for paying compensation to employees, including the establishment of a payday schedule.

7\. Work Schedule and Workweek. The System shall include policies and procedures for the establishment of, and modifications to, work schedules and workweeks for all Medical Center employees, and may include alternative work schedules and sites, such as work-at-home or telecommuting policies and procedures.

8\. Other Classification and Compensation Policies and Procedures. The System may include any other reasonable classification and compensation policies and procedures the President or his designee deems appropriate.

B. Benefits

The System shall provide fringe benefits to all full-time salaried employees, including retirement benefits, health care insurance, and life, disability, and accidental death and dismemberment insurance. The benefits provided shall include a basic plan of benefits for each full-time salaried employee, and may include an optional benefits plan for full-time salaried employees, including additional insurance coverage, tax deferred annuities, flexible reimbursement accounts, employee assistance programs, and employee intramural and recreational passes, with the cost of any such optional benefits plan, if any, to be paid by the employee. The System may provide different benefits plans for reasonably different groups or classifications of employees, and may provide benefits to part-time employees where appropriate. Until changed by the President or his designee, the benefits plans provided by the Medical Center to each group or classification of its employees shall be the benefits plan provided to that group or classification as of June 30, 1996. Any changes in Medical Center employee benefits plans for retirement and health care and other insurance shall be approved by the Board of Visitors before they may become effective.

C. Employee Relations

1\. General. The System shall ensure that the needs, rights and privileges of Medical Center employees are protected consistent with sound management principles and fair employment practice law.

2\. Employee Safety and Health. The System shall ensure that the Medical Center is a workplace that is safe and in compliance with applicable law and regulations.

3\. Employee Work Environment. The System shall ensure that Medical Center employees are provided a work environment that is conducive to the performance of job duties, and free from intimidation or coercion, including sexual harassment or other discrimination.

4\. Employee Recognition. The System may include policies and procedures for awarding, honoring, or otherwise recognizing Medical Center employees who have performed particularly meritorious service for the Medical Center, or have been employed by the Medical Center or University for specified periods of time, or have retired from the Medical Center or University after lengthy service.

5\. Counseling Services. The System shall provide counseling services to any Medical Center employee experiencing job-related difficulties and seeking counseling for those difficulties, and shall establish the circumstances under which the time necessary to participate in such counseling may be charged to the employee's Medical Center leave balance or for which the employee may be granted administrative leave.

6\. Unemployment Compensation. The System shall ensure that Medical Center employees receive the full unemployment compensation benefits to which they are legally entitled, and that the University's liability is limited to legitimate claims for such benefits.

7\. Performance Planning and Evaluation. The System shall include a performance planning and evaluation process for Medical Center employees that (i) establishes a performance plan for each Medical Center employee that communicates the Medical Center's job expectations for that employee, (ii) helps develop a productive working relationship between supervisors and employees, (iii) gives employees an opportunity to present their views concerning their performance, (iv) identifies areas where employees may need further training or development, (v) establishes the process by which periodic performance planning and performance evaluation will be conducted, (vi) clarifies how performance that exceeds expectations will be recognized and how performance that is below expectations will be addressed, including the relationship between the performance planning and evaluation process and the Medical Center's classification and compensation plans, and (vii) ensures that all Medical Center employees are provided relevant information on the performance planning and evaluation process. The System may include a separate performance and evaluation process for reasonably distinguishable groups of Medical Center employees.

8\. Standards of Conduct and Performance. In order to protect the well-being and rights of all employees and to ensure safe, efficient Medical Center operations and compliance with the law, the System shall establish rules of personal conduct and standards of acceptable work performance (collectively, the "Standards") for Medical Center employees. In general, the Standards shall serve to (i) establish a fair and objective process for correcting or treating unacceptable conduct or work performance, (ii) distinguish between less serious and more serious actions of misconduct and provide corrective action accordingly, and (iii) limit corrective action to employee conduct occurring only when employees are at work or are otherwise representing the Medical Center or the University in an official or work-related capacity, unless otherwise specifically provided in the Standards. Specifically, the Standards shall address (i) the need for timely and regular attendance at work, (ii) the need for dependable and efficient use of time by employees, (iii) the need for satisfactory work performance and the steps to be taken in response to unsatisfactory work performance, (iv) the degrees or categories of various disciplinary offenses, the range of disciplinary action available for each degree or category, the aggravating and mitigating circumstances to be considered in taking disciplinary action, and the procedures to be followed in taking that action, including the opportunity for a discussion of the pending disciplinary action with the employee and the employee's right to a predetermination hearing on that action, and (v) the circumstances under which a Medical Center employee may be suspended pending the completion of a disciplinary investigation, an official law enforcement investigation, or a court action, and the implications of such a suspension on the employee's compensation and benefits. The Standards may provide for a probationary period for new and re-employed Medical Center employees, during which period the Standards shall not be applicable and the employee may not use the grievance procedure set forth in the next paragraph.

9\. State Grievance Procedure. As provided in the enabling legislation, the State grievance procedure, Chapter 10.1 of Title 2.1,  2.1-116.01 et seq. of the Code of Virginia shall continue to apply to all Medical Center employees to the extent it was applicable prior to July 1, 1996.

10\. Layoff Policy. The System shall include a layoff policy for full-time salaried Medical Center employees who lose their jobs for reasons other than their job performance or conduct, such as a reduction in force or reorganization at the Medical Center. This Medical Center layoff policy shall govern all layoff issues, including (i) whether there is a need to effect a layoff, (ii) actions to be taken prior to a layoff, (iii) notice to employees affected by a layoff, (iv) placement options within the Medical Center and within other parts of the University, (v) the preferential employment rights, if any, of various Medical Center employees, (vi) the effect of layoff on leave and service, and (vii) the policy for recalling employees.

11\. Severance Benefits. The University shall adhere to the provisions of the Workforce Transition Act of 1995, Title 2.1, Chapter 10.5,  2.1-116.20 of the Code of Virginia, with regard to Medical Center employees who are involuntarily separated for reasons unrelated to performance or conduct.

12\. Use of Alcohol and Other Drugs. The System shall include policies and procedures that (i) establish and maintain a work environment at the Medical Center that is free from the adverse effect of alcohol and other drugs, (ii) are consistent with the federal Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 and with the University of Virginia Alcohol and Other Drugs Policy, (iii) describe the range of authorized disciplinary action, including termination where appropriate, for violations of such policies and procedures, and the process to be followed in taking such disciplinary action, (iv) provide Medical Center employees access to assistance and treatment for problems involving alcohol and other drugs, (v) provide for the circumstances under which employees are required to report certain violations of the policies and procedures to their supervisor, and the University is required to report those violations to a federal contracting or granting agency, (vi) describe the circumstances under which personnel records of actions taken under the Medical Center alcohol and other drugs policy will not be kept confidential, and (vii) provide notice to Medical Center employees of the scope and content of the Medical Center alcohol and other drugs policy. As part of this alcohol and other drugs policy, and in compliance with the federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991, the System may provide for pre-employment, reasonable suspicion, random, post-accident, return-to-duty and follow-up alcohol and other drug testing for Medical Center positions that are particularly safety sensitive, such as those requiring a Commercial Driver's License.

13\. Criminal Records Check. The System may include a process for conducting a criminal records check on applicants for full-time or part-time positions at the Medical Center, and for addressing situations where employees do not disclose a criminal conviction on their application or otherwise falsify their application with regard to information concerning prior convictions.

14\. Other Employee Relations Policies and Procedures. The System may include any other reasonable employee relations policies or procedures the President or his designee deems appropriate, including, but not limited to, policies or procedures relating to orientation programs for new or re-employed Medical Center employees, an employee suggestion program, the responsibility of Medical Center employees for property placed in their charge, work breaks, inclement weather and emergencies, and employment outside the Medical Center.

D. Leave and Release Time

1\. Leave. The System shall include policies and procedures regarding leave. With regard to leave, the System (i) shall provide for reasonable annual, holiday, sick (including family and maternity), compensatory, military, worker's compensation, and overtime leave, (ii) may provide for administrative leave, educational leave and other appropriate leave, (iii) shall provide for the disposition of unused leave balances when a Medical Center employee terminates employment with the Medical Center or when an employee's employment status changes, and (iv) shall include the circumstances, if any, when leave without pay may be granted and the circumstances under which leave may be disapproved.

2\. Release Time. The System may provide for release time for such matters as the donation of blood, participation in an employee assistance program and other appropriate employment-related matters.

3\. Leave and Release Time Programs. The President or his designee may adopt a different leave and release time program for reasonably different groups of Medical Center employees, and may adopt a flexible leave policy for the Medical Center, such as paid-time-off, provided that the flexible policy is still reasonable with regard to the total leave granted to Medical Center employees. Until a new program is adopted by the President or his designee, however, the Medical Center shall continue to provide leave and release time to each group of Medical Center employees in accordance with the leave and release time policies and procedures applicable to that group as of June 30, 1996.

E. Employment and Termination

1\. Equal Employment Opportunity and Nondiscrimination. The System shall contain policies and procedures to ensure that the employment of Medical Center employees meets all requirements of federal and state law, and of the relevant policies of the Board of Visitors, with regard to equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination.

2\. Hiring Process. The System shall include policies and procedures for the recruitment, selection and hiring of Medical Center employees that are based on merit and fitness, including where appropriate a requirement for job posting, interviews, pre-employment testing, pre-employment drug testing, reference checks and criminal record checks. The System shall establish designated veterans' re-employment rights in accordance with applicable law.

3\. Notice of Separation. The System shall include policies and procedures requiring reasonable notice, where appropriate, of a decision either by the employee or by the Medical Center to separate the employee's employment from the Medical Center.

VI. Continued Applicability of Other Provisions of the Code of Virginia and Other Board of Visitors' Polices Affecting University Personnel

Even though they will be exempt from the Virginia Personnel Act effective July 1, 1996, Medical Center employees who were State employees prior to that date will continue to be State employees after that date. Thus, all provisions of the Code of Virginia applicable to State employees and not specifically exempted by the enabling legislation will continue to be applicable to such Medical Center employees, including the State grievance procedure contained in Chapter 10.01 of Title 2.1,  2.1-116.01 et seq. of the Code of Virginia, and the State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act, Chapter 40.1 of Title 2.1,  2.1-639.1 et seq. of the Code of Virginia. In addition, all Medical Center employees also shall remain subject to any other personnel policies adopted by the Board of Visitors applicable to University personnel unless Medical Center employees are specifically exempted from those other personnel policies either by those other policies or by these policies.