 TEI to HTML

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

BOARD OF VISITORS

ANNOTATED MINUTES

(Tentative)

OCTOBER 9-10, 1998

As authorized by Section 2.1-344 of the Code of Virginia and on advice of the General Counsel, the tentative Minutes released to the public omit salary information.

October 9-10, 1998

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 8:25 a.m., on Friday, October 9, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Timothy B. Robertson, Terence P. Ross, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, Henry L. Valentine, II, Walter F. Walker, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, James C. Wheat, III, Joseph E. Wolfe, and J. Michael Allen. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, William W. Harmon, Ms. Polley Ann McClure, Ernest H. Ern, Gene D. Block, L. Jay Lemons, Terry Holland and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS,
---------------------------------------------

MAY 29-30, 1998

The Minutes of the meeting of May 29-30, 1998, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT
-----------------------

The President announced the appointment of three of the five chairs of the proposed commissions charged with the planning initiatives ordered by the Board. The three chairs and their commissions are Mr. Robert Chapel, Fine Arts; Ms. Rebecca Kneedler, Public Service and Outreach; and Ms. Anita Jones, Science and Technologies. The chairs of the remaining two commissions should be named in the next several weeks. The membership of the commissions will include faculty, students and alumni. The commissions will announce their work plans after the first meeting of the University Planning Council in December.

The President reported on the feasibility studies in progress on the proposal to establish a university in Qatar. Teams of faculty, he said, are at work on establishing curricula and other aspects of the proposal are being studied. There have been discussions with leaders of the Virginia coal industry on conversion technology, there being similarities in the extraction of natural gas in Qatar and in the Virginia coalfields. A team from the University will visit Doha at the end of October and the beginning of November, and a group of consultants are studying various financial aspects of the Qatari proposal. The Sheikha, which is to say the wife of the Ruler of Qatar, will visit the University for a few days in mid-December.

All of these studies, the President reported, are on schedule and the final report should be ready for the Board shortly after the first of January, as promised.

Finally, the President noted the structural deficiencies to University Hall discovered in August and said the Administration would seek guidance from the Board about the possibility of planning a replacement to the building.

Roll Call
---------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Executive Session (see enabling motions below), at 1:00 p.m., Friday, October 9, 1998, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, presided. Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Timothy B. Robertson, Terence P. Ross, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, Henry L. Valentine, II, Walter F. Walker, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, James C. Wheat, III, Joseph E. Wolfe, and J. Michael Allen were present. Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Robert W. Cantrell, Peter W. Low, Ms. Colette Capone, Ernest H. Ern, Robert D. Sweeney, William W. Harmon, Ms. Polley Ann McClure, L. Jay Lemons, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The following motions were adopted:

That the Health Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the discussion of proprietary, business related information of the

Medical Center in connection with its proposed and existing joint ventures, and the investing of public funds where competition and bargaining is involved, when if made public initially the financial interests of the University would be adversely affected; and consultation with legal counsel and briefing by staff members pertaining to probable litigation, and other specific legal matters requiring the provision of legal advice by counsel; as provided for in Sections 2.1-344 (A)(6), (7) and (24) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the discussion with General Counsel regarding existing and probable litigation and review of the defensibility of student program practices, as authorized by Sections 2.1-344 (A)(1) and (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning the status of pending litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of The Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for discussion and consideration with our legal counsel of the formation of a contract to perform services overseas, and the investing of public funds where competition and bargaining is involved when if made public initially the University's financial interests and legal position would be adversely affected, including receiving a briefing from our counsel on pending cases and claims as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (6), (7), and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for discussion of personnel matters in connection with the condition, use and disposition of University real property for public purposes, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(1) and (3) of the Code of Virginia.

Recess
------

At 4:00 p.m., the Board went into Open Session and recessed.

The Board resumed, in Open Session, in the Dome Room of the Rotunda at 4:05 p.m. The President proposed resolutions creating six professorships.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ROBERT W. CANTRELL PROFESSORSHIP IN OTOLARYNGOLOGY — HEAD AND NECK SURGERY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Dr. Robert W. Cantrell, a native of Missouri, joined the faculty of the School of Medicine in 1976 as Professor and Chairman of the Department of Otolaryngology and Maxillofacial Surgery; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Cantrell was appointed G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh Professor of Otolaryngology in 1977, a chair he continues to hold; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Cantrell served as Acting Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences from July 1, 1994 to December 31, 1995, and became Vice President and Provost on January 1, 1996; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Cantrell is at once a distinguished scholar who has published extensively, a skilled physician and a medical administrator of proven merit; and

WHEREAS, numerous friends, patients, former students, colleagues, and others have pledged funds to establish a professorship in Dr. Cantrell's honor;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Robert W. Cantrell Professorship in Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery in the School of Medicine, thanks the numerous donors who have made this chair possible, and expresses its appreciation to Dr. Cantrell for his distinguished service to the University.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MAURICE L. LEBAUER PROFESSORSHIP IN SURGERY
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Maurice LeBauer matriculated in the University of Virginia as an undergraduate in 1924 and took an M.D. in 1929; and

WHEREAS, Dr. LeBauer was a distinguished surgeon in Greensboro, North Carolina and, during the Second World War, a surgical member of the 8th Evacuation Hospital; and

WHEREAS, Dr. LeBauer died in 1996; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Carolyn W. LeBauer and the late Dr. LeBauer; made a generous gift to the School of Medicine for a chair in Surgery;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Maurice L. LeBauer Professorship in Surgery in the School of Medicine, thanks Mrs. LeBauer, and the late Dr. LeBauer for their generous gift, and honors contributions Dr. LeBauer made to the practice of medicine and to the University of Virginia.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PAUL MELLON PROFESSORSHIP IN UROLOGY
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Mr. Paul Mellon, the late Mr. and Mrs. Howell E. Jackson, and the late Dr. and Mrs. Edwin D. Vaughan, Sr., and the Department of Urology have all contributed generously to the establishment of a professorship; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Mellon's gift, the principal donation for the chair, is an example of his continuing benefactions to Virginia institutions;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Paul Mellon Professorship in Urology in the School of Medicine, and thanks Mr. Mellon and the other donors for their generosity.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WYETH-AYERST PROFESSORSHIP IN INFECTIOUS DISEASES
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories of St. Davids, Pennsylvania is one of the leading American pharmaceutical companies in the field of infectious diseases; and

WHEREAS, Wyeth-Ayerst has been a generous supporter of programs in the School of Medicine; and

WHEREAS, Wyeth-Ayerst has pledged its continuing support with a gift for a professorship in infectious diseases;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors thanks Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories for its interest and generosity and establishes the Wyeth-Ayerst Professorship in Infectious Diseases, to be located in the Division of Infectious Diseases in the Department of Internal Medicine of the School of Medicine.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WILLIAM B. CHRISTIAN PROFESSORSHIP IN ENGLISH
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, William B. Christian of Richmond, a student in the University of Virginia in 1905 and 1906, lived in China during most of his working life and married there; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Christian's father was an alumnus of the University, as was his son and is his grandson; and

WHEREAS, Mr. and Mrs. Christian left funds to the University to establish both a professorship and a fellowship in English;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the William B. Christian Professorship in English, and expresses its gratitude for the generosity of William B. and Aya B. Christian whose estate made this Professorship possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOHN S. SHANNON DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, John S. Shannon, a native of Florida, took a degree from the School of Law in 1955; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Shannon had a distinguished career with the Norfolk and Western Railway and the Norfolk Southern Corporation; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Shannon has given generously of his time and his leadership to his community; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Shannon has provided funds for a professorship in the School of Law;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the John S. Shannon Distinguished Professorship in Law and expresses its appreciation to Mr. Shannon for his generosity and his devotion to the School of Law.

The Board recessed at 4:35 p.m., and resumed, in Executive Session, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda at 4:50 p.m.

The Board recessed once again at 6:35 p.m., and resumed in Executive Session in the East Oval Room at 8:00 a.m., Saturday, October 10th. Present during this portion of the meeting were

John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, who presided. Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Timothy B. Robertson, Terence P. Ross, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, Henry L. Valentine, II, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, James C. Wheat, III, Joseph E. Wolfe, and J. Michael Allen were present. Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Robert W. Cantrell, Peter W. Low, Ms. Colette Capone, Ms. Polley Ann McClure, Ernest H. Ern, Gene Block, Robert D. Sweeney, William W. Harmon, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Board resumed in Open Session at 8:20 a.m., and adjourned as a meeting of the full Board.

After meeting in committees, the Board resumed in Open Session at 12:15 p.m., with the same persons, except Mr. Goodwin, that were present in the Executive Session earlier in the day.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTIONS FOR TERM CONTRACTS
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that MMM Design Group of Norfolk and RTKL of Baltimore, Maryland are approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for projects initiated under term contracts at the University of Virginia.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENTS, EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS CENTER (ALBEMARLE COUNTY SERVICE AUTHORITY)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the granting of permanent easements, dated October 10, 1998, to the Albemarle County Service Authority for fire suppression and water main valves and for storm water runoff control for the Emergency Communications Center, on Route 250 West, across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easement.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT, EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS CENTER (VIRGINIA POWER)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, dated October 10, 1998, to Virginia Power for electric service to the Emergency Communications Center, on Route 250 West, across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easement.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT, ALDERMAN ROAD PUMP HOUSE (RIVANNA WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, dated October 10, 1998, to Rivanna Water and Sewer Authority for the Alderman Road Pump House across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easement.

APPROVAL OF architect selection FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE STUDENT CENTER
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that VMDO Architects, PC of Charlottesville, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Clinch Valley College Student Center project.

Approval of architect selection for TERM CONTRACT — CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that VMDO Architects, PC of Charlottesville, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for projects initiated under the term contract for Clinch Valley College.

APPROVAL of architectural design guidelines for ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES FIELD STATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated June 24, 1998, and prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Environmental Sciences Field Station project, are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

Approval of architectural design guidelines for GILDERSLEEVE APARTMENTS RENOVATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated June 24, 1998, and prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Gildersleeve Apartments Renovation project, are approved;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL OF architectural design guidelines for CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE STUDENT CENTER
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated June 24, 1998, and prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Clinch Valley College Student Center project, are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE RESIDENCE HALL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated June 24, 1998, and prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Clinch Valley College Residence Hall project, are approved;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE STUDENT RESIDENCE HALL PROJECT
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the preliminary design, dated June 24, 1998, and prepared by Hanbury Evans Newill Vlattas of Norfolk, Virginia, for the Student Residence Hall project, is approved for further development and construction.

HISTORICAL MARKER POLICY
------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that any proposed historical markers, monuments, or plaques to be erected or installed on University property shall be referred to the Buildings and Grounds Committee, who, in consultation with the President, shall make a recommendation to the Board as to whether or not such historical marker, monument, or plaque shall be erected or installed on University property.

APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING AND MEDICAL SCIENCE BUILDING PROJECT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the preliminary design, dated September 22, 1998, and prepared by Henningson, Durham and Richardson of Alexandria, Virginia, for the Biomedical Engineering and Medical Science Building, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE FOOTBALL FACILITY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the preliminary design, dated October 10, 1998, and prepared by Thompson+Litton of Wise, for the Clinch Valley College Football Facility, is approved for further development and construction.

SCHEMATIC AND PRELIMINARY DESIGN, STUDENT RESIDENCE HOUSE RENOVATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the schematic and preliminary design, dated October 10, 1998, and prepared by Mitchell/Matthews & Associates Architects of Charlottesville, for the Student Residence House Renovation project, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS' REPRESENTATIVES TO THE GOVERNING BOARDS OF UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons be approved as representatives of the Board of Visitors to the governing boards of the following University-related Foundations:

University of Virginia Alumni Association Henry L. Valentine, II

Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund Robert V. Hatcher, Jr.

University of Virginia Host Properties, Inc. Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

Clinch Valley College Foundation J. Thomas Hulvey

Curry School of Education Foundation Elizabeth D. Morie

Darden School Foundation Lemuel E. Lewis

Friends of the University of Virginia's Blandy Experimental

Farm David C. Benjamin

Healthcare Partners, Inc. Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

University of Virginia Health Services Foundation Paul H. Wood

Historic Renovation Corporation David W. Carr

University of Virginia Law School Foundation Mortimer M. Caplin

McIntire School of Commerce Foundation Elizabeth A. Twohy

University of Virginia Medical School Alumni Association N. Thomas Connally

University of Virginia Medical School Foundation N. Thomas Connally

Miller Center Foundation John P. Ackerly, III

University of Virginia Patent Foundation Haydn N. G. Wadley

University of Virginia Foundation John P. Ackerly, III

University Real Estate Foundation John P. Ackerly, III

Virginia Ambulatory Surgery, Inc. R. Scott Jones

Virginia Engineering Foundation C. Wilson McNeely, III

Virginia Kidney Stone Foundation William D. Steers

Virginia Student Aid Foundation M. Terry Holland

Virginia Tax Foundation, Inc. Joseph E. Gibson

APPROVAL OF RECOMMENDED MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PATENT FOUNDATION BOARD
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Articles of Incorporation of the University of Virginia Patent Foundation require that the directors shall be elected from the nominees submitted by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia, and the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund; and

WHEREAS, the Articles of Incorporation of the University of Virginia Patent Foundation also maintain that at least two directors shall, at all times, be nominees of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia;

RESOLVED that Mr. Peter W. Low and Dr. John C. Herr be approved as nominees for membership on the governing board of the University of Virginia Patent Foundation.

APPROVAL OF INTENT TO ISSUE BONDS
---------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the United States Department of the Treasury has promulgated final regulations in Section l.l50-2 of the Treasury Regulations (the "Regulations") governing when the allocation of bond proceeds to reimburse expenditures previously made by a borrower shall be treated as an expenditure of the bond proceeds; and

WHEREAS, the Regulations require a declaration of official intent by a borrower to provide evidence that the borrower intended to reimburse such expenditures with proceeds of its bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") desires to make such a declaration of official intent as required by the Regulations;

RESOLVED that, pursuant to the Regulations, the University hereby declares its intent to reimburse expenditures in accordance with the following:

The University reasonably expects to reimburse expenditures incurred for the construction and/or purchase of the Orange Medical Facility and the construction of the Clinch Valley College Student Residence Hall with proceeds from the issuance of tax-exempt bonds to be issued by the University through the Treasury board;

This resolution is a declaration of official intent under Section l.l50-2 of the Regulations;

The maximum principal amount of bonds expected to be issued for the purpose of reimbursing expenditures relating to the construction and/or purchase of the Orange Medical Facility is $4.5 million and the construction of the Clinch Valley College Student Residence Hall is $4.5 million.

APPROVAL OF CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE INTEREST SUBSIDY
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the University's providing to the Clinch Valley College housing operation a one-time subsidy not to exceed $700,000 to be paid over a period of approximately six years beginning in Fiscal Year 2001 from gifts or endowment income held by the Board of Visitors;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors delegates authority to the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to establish the exact amount of the subsidy when adequate information is available.

APPROVAL OF ENDOWMENT INCOME DISTRIBUTION
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be authorized to increase the Fiscal Year 1998-99 income distribution of Class A shares 20.4 percent from $53.94 per share to $64.95 per share, which equals 4.25 percent of the June 30, 1998, market value of the Pooled Endowment Fund;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be authorized to increase the Fiscal Year 1998-99 income distribution for Class B shares 18.8 percent from $73.99 per share to $87.87 per share, which equals 5.75 percent of the June 30, 1998, market value of the Pooled Endowment Fund.

ACQUISITION OF ZION CROSSROADS DIALYSIS CENTER
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Dialysis Center constructed in 1997 at Zion Crossroads by the Health Services Foundation (“HSF”) fulfills the need for dialysis services among Louisa and Fluvanna County residents; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center has determined that acquisition of the Center from the Health Services Foundation would be the most cost-effective method of operating the Center; and

WHEREAS, the 1998 General Assembly authorized the Medical Center to utilize up to $1.2 million of hospital operating revenues to acquire the Dialysis Center at Zion Crossroads in Louisa County; and

WHEREAS, acquisition of the facility must be accompanied by acquisition of the ground lease that the HSF holds with the Virginia Oil Company;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves acquisition of the Dialysis Center facility and ground lease in the amount of $1,152,165; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to execute any and all contracts and documents pertaining to the acquisition of the aforementioned property and ground lease.

AUTHORIZATION OF ISSUANCE OF UP TO $145,000,000 OF GENERAL REVENUE PLEDGE BONDS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Chapter 9, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the "Virginia Code"), establishes a public corporation under the name and style of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") which is governed by a Board of Visitors (the "Board"); and

WHEREAS, Chapter 3, Title 23 of the Virginia Code (the "Act") classifies the University as an educational institution, declares it to be a public body and constitutes it a governmental instrumentality for the dissemination of education; and

WHEREAS, the Act empowers the University, with the consent and approval of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Commonwealth") and the Governor of the Commonwealth to build, construct, reconstruct, erect, extend, better, equip and improve any building, facility, addition, extension or improvement of a capital nature required by or convenient for the purposes of the University and to borrow money and make, issue and sell bonds of the University for any such purposes, including the refinancing of any such facilities, such bonds to be issued and sold through the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth (the "Treasury Board"); and

WHEREAS, the Act further authorizes the University to pledge to the payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds any monies available for the use of the University including, but not limited to, and subject to guidelines promulgated by the Secretary of Finance of the Commonwealth (the "Secretary of Finance"), monies appropriated to the University from the general funds of the Commonwealth or from non-general funds, without regard to the source of such monies, and which are not required by law or by previous binding contract to be devoted to some other purpose; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined to finance or refinance several projects (the "Projects"), as more particularly described on Exhibit A, through the issuance of bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $145,000,000 (the "Bonds"); and

WHEREAS, the Board anticipates that the Bonds will be secured by a general revenue pledge of the University; and

WHEREAS, the Board desires to authorize its Executive Committee (the "Executive Committee") to approve the final forms and details of the Bonds, as set forth below;

RESOLVED that the Executive Committee is hereby authorized to implement the plan of finance described in the Recitals and on Exhibit A by adopting a resolution or resolutions authorizing the issuance of one or more series of Bonds for the purpose of financing or refinancing any or all of the Projects and providing for the terms thereof as required by Section 23-19 of the Virginia Code; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee is hereby authorized to approve the final terms of each series of Bonds including, without limitation, their original principal amounts, the specific Projects to be financed or refinanced, maturity dates and amounts, redemption provisions and prices and interest rates (which may be either fixed or variable); provided that (i) the maximum aggregate principal amount of all Bonds shall not exceed $145,000,000; (ii) the maximum true interest cost of any series bearing interest at a fixed rate shall not exceed six percent per annum; (iii) the maximum initial true interest cost of any series bearing interest at a variable rate shall not exceed five percent per annum; (iv) the final maturity of all Bonds shall not extend beyond June 1, 2029; (v) call protection on the Bonds shall not exceed ten (10) years, and no optional redemption premium shall exceed two percent; and (vi) the terms of the Bonds are otherwise consistent with the parameters for each of the Projects as described on Exhibit A; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee is authorized to approve the discount payable to Goldman, Sachs & Co. (the "Underwriter") on account of the sale of the Bonds and to approve the terms of a contract for the sale of the Bonds to the Underwriter provided that the discount payable to the Underwriter shall not exceed 0.7 percent of the original aggregate principal amount of the Bonds; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee and all officers of the University are hereby authorized and directed to take all such further actions and to execute all such instruments, agreements, documents and certificates as they shall deem necessary or desirable to carry out the terms of the financing plans presented to this meeting; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, pursuant to the Section 147(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and applicable regulations thereunder, the University hereby designates Alice W. Handy, Treasurer of the University, as the public hearing officer to hold any public hearings required in order to ensure the tax-exempt status of interest on the Bonds; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that all acts of all officers of the University which are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution and in carrying out the financing plans presented to this meeting are ratified, approved and affirmed.

EXHIBIT A: BOND ISSUANCE PARAMETERS FOR UP TO $145,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------

GENERAL REVENUE PLEDGE BONDS

In addition to the general parameters described in the Resolution, the following specific parameters shall apply to the Projects described below:

Scott Stadium Expansion

Maximum Principal Amount: $67,000,000

Latest Final Maturity Date: June 1, 2029

East Precinct Parking Garage

Maximum Principal Amount: $ 3,000,000

Latest Final Maturity Date: June 1, 2019

Student Residence Hall

Maximum Principal Amount: $ 6,500,000

Latest Final Maturity Date: June 1, 2019

Medical Office Building

Maximum Principal Amount: $ 8,000,000

Latest Final Maturity Date: June 1, 2019

Hospital Refunding Bonds

Maximum Principal Amount: $60,500,000

Latest Final Maturity Date: June 1, 2013

5787

APPROVAL OF THE REVISION OF THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ADVISORY COUNCIL BYLAWS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Clinch Valley College Advisory Council has evolved from that of an advisory body to one with an important role in determining policy;

RESOLVED that the name of the Clinch Valley College Advisory Council be changed to "Clinch Valley College Board"; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Advisory Council Bylaws(shown as an attachment) are amended to provide that bodyauthority to act on behalf of the Board of Visitors of theUniversity of Virginia, on matters specifically identified in the Bylaws.

RESOLVED FURTHER that the present Advisory Council members and the Executive Committee shall continue to serve as the Interim Clinch Valley College Board and Executive Committee, respectively, until such time as the new CVC Board members have been appointed and qualified by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors appoints a transition nominating committee composed of the Clinch Valley College Committee of the Board of Visitors, the chair of the old Clinch Valley College Advisory Council, the President of the Alumni Association of Clinch Valley College, the Chancellor of Clinch Valley College, along with three Clinch Valley College Alumni not now serving on existing Boards, to be appointed by the Chancellor reflecting the diversity of the alumni, said nominations be submitted to the Board of Visitors in time for the January 29, 1999 meeting; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors believes that the initial composition of the Clinch Valley College Board include as many new members, including alumni of Clinch Valley College and/or the University of Virginia as possible.

APPROVAL OF COMMENCEMENT OF THE STRATEGIC PLANNING PROCESS FOR A NEW ARENA
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors asks the President and the administration to begin the strategic planning process for a new arena to replace University Hall, including comprehensive architectural, financing and fundraising plans.

ESTABLISHMENT OF GUIDELINES FOR A "GROUNDSWALK" TO BE INCORPORATED INTO THE MASTER PLAN FOR THE UNIVERSITY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors recognizes that the origin of incorporating a "Groundswalk" into the University's Master Plan goes back several decades when the University was considerably smaller; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors also recognizes that the timing for design and development of a "Groundswalk" is currently appropriate both as the Master Plan is being revised and major projects are planned along its path; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors envisions that the "Groundswalk" would substantially aid in the "unification" of the University Grounds and increase the level of safety and transportation efficiency for pedestrians, joggers, bicyclists, reduce the relative need for parking facilities, as well as improve the urban environment of the University; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has established a set of guidelines and objectives for design and construction of the Groundswalk; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors believes by meeting these requirements, the Groundswalk could substantially improve the walking environment within the University Grounds while respecting its common heritage;

RESOLVED that the development of the "Groundswalk" and incorporation into the Master Plan requires several components which must be met or maintained; the first two of which are critical:

The primary requirement is safety. This would include separation of pedestrians from vehicular traffic and bicycles, as well as requiring lighting, addressing surveillance needs, providing adequate visibility and enabling access for emergency vehicles.

An individual, bicyclist or handicapped person should be able to travel from North Grounds to Scott Stadium and eventually to the student residences beyond without having to climb stairs or stop for city traffic. In order to do so elevated walkways, bridges, and moderately sloping grades would be incorporated into the design.

The main walkway itself should be wide enough toaccommodate pedestrian and bicycle traffic and, attimes, emergency vehicles, including at certain points enough space to permit safe convergence oflight mass transit.

The "Groundswalk" should aesthetically and functionally enhance the urban environment of the University by aiding and encouraging walking and bicycling. Its design should conform with Jeffersonian characteristics by maximizing brick and neoclassical features that blend into the existing architecture.

Future development along the Groundswalk should be designed to accommodate and function with the walkway,not compete with it. Future building and constructiondesign should not interfere with the main purpose and requirements of the walk described above but rather fitin just as buildings along a natural watercourse would relate.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Buildings and Grounds Committee shall instruct the Architect of the University to communicate these requirements to all engineers, architects, or other professionals currently or in the future engaged for projects within the University Grounds.

VALIANCE HEALTH, L.L.C.
-----------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, VaLiance Health, a Limited Liability Corporation, has been created for the purpose of "working together for the health of our communities", and, as such, serves as a mechanism for integrating and coordinating the delivery of health care services on behalf of its members (currently University of Virginia Medical Center, Augusta Medical Center, and Rockingham Memorial Hospital); and

WHEREAS, UVa Medical Center is committed to serving as an extension of the community hospital and the community physician in serving patients' needs, and sees VaLiance Health as an important mechanism for providing regional health care services; and

WHEREAS, the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences recommends that, in the best interests of the University of Virginia Health Sciences Center, approval be granted for this venture, and authority be given to execute an amended and restated Operating Agreement; and

WHEREAS, the General Counsel has recommended that the existing Operating Agreement be ratified;

RESOLVED that the described business arrangement between the UVa Medical Center and the VaLiance Health Corporation is approved, and the existing Operating Agreement of VaLiance Health, L.L.C., is ratified; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized, in consultation with the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences and with advice of the General Counsel, to execute such amended and restated Operating Agreement as may be in the best interests of the University of Virginia.

STATEMENT BY THE RECTOR
-----------------------

Today, I am appointing a Special Committee of the Board of

Visitors to review the processes and operations in the University of Virginia Medical Center. I am also naming three key administrators to work with and support the efforts of the Special Committee.

The Medical Center is a critical component of our public service, teaching and research enterprises. It serves thousands of patients each month. We have confidence in the leadership of the Center. Its health care providers and staff are second to none. As a result, the quality of patient care delivered by the hospital has been and continues to be outstanding.

However, the events of recent weeks require that the Board devote special attention to the processes and operations of the Medical Center and ensure that all appropriate steps are being taken to assist management in making any improvements that may be necessary. In fact, Dr. Cantrell emphasized just yesterday that he and his staff would welcome increased oversight from the Board.

The team will be headed by Board member Elizabeth A. Twohy of Virginia Beach, Chair of the Audit Committee, and will include Board members Charles M. Caravati, Jr., M.D., of Manakin-Sabot, Timothy B. Robertson of Virginia Beach, James C. Wheat, III, of Richmond, and Benjamin P.A. Warthen of Richmond. I am asking Leonard W. Sandridge (Executive Vice President and Chief Finanical Officer), Barbara J. Deily (Director of Audits), and Beth C. Hodsdon (Special Assistant Attorney General) to serve in support of the Special Committee. This combination of persons brings a broad range of expertise to the task and ensures that the resources of the entire University are devoted to the effort. In addition, the team has authority to use both internal and external resources to carry out its tasks.

I have asked Ms. Twohy and the team to report to the full Board at its January 1999 meeting and to provide interim reports to the Board as needed.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION FOR RAYMOND C. BICE, JR.
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Raymond C. Bice, Jr., a native of LaCrosse, Wisconsin, joined the faculty of the University of Virginia in 1948 as an assistant professor of psychology; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Bice subsequently was Associate Professor and Professor of Psychology, and then Professor of Psychology Emeritus from 1994 after he retired from teaching; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Bice, one of the early faculty advisers resident in the First Year Dormitories, was Chairman of the Resident Faculty Advisers from 1950 to 1954; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Bice was Director of Admissions for the College from 1954 to 1958, an Assistant Dean of the College from 1958 to 1964, and an Associate Dean of the College from 1958 to 1969; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Bice was elected Secretary to the Board of Visitors in 1969, and made Administrative Assistant to the President the same year, positions he held until the end of 1990; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Bice was made University History Officer in 1991 and served in that capacity until his retirement; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Bice is known to literally thousands of former students as an innovative teacher and deviser of "Bice Devices," as well as a compassionate adviser who could resolve almost any problem; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Bice has served the University in countless other ways; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Bice retired from the University in July, 1998;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors thanks Raymond C. Bice, Jr., for his years of service and devotion to the University and extends every good wish on his retirement.

1999 ANNUAL MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the May, 1999 meeting of the Board of Visitors be designated the Annual Meeting for the Year 1999.

GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
----------------------------

The President reported on Gifts, Grants, and Contracts.

The Report was accepted.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR THE HONORABLE DANIEL FRENCH SLAUGHTER, JR.
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Daniel French Slaughter, Jr., was born in Culpeper County in 1925; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Slaughter matriculated in the Virginia Military Institute but left to serve in the United States Army during the Second World War and was awarded both the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Slaughter resumed his studies, but at the University of Virginia, from which he took the B.A. in 1949, and the J.D. in 1953; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Slaughter served the University as President of the Alumni Association, as a member of the Board of Visitors from 1978 to 1982, and as Rector from 1980 to 1982; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Slaughter served the Commonwealth as a member of the House of Delegates from 1958 to 1978 and as the member for the 7th District in the United States House of Representatives from 1985 to 1991; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Slaughter, in his public service, was a particular supporter of higher education and one of the founders of the Community College System in Virginia; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Slaughter died in Charlottesville on October 2, 1998;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors notes with sorrow the passing of Daniel French Slaughter, Jr., and expresses its deepest sympathy to his family, and marks with gratitude his

devotion and service to the University of Virginia and to the Commonwealth.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period May 1, 1998 through August 31, 1998, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONS — ELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty: Mr. Matthew Affron as Assistant Professor of Art History, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Dr. Stacey M. Anderson as Assistant Professor of Independent Research in Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1998. Dr. Eve M. Bargmann as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for the period January 1, 1998 through June 30, 1998. Mr. Colin P. Bird as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Ms. Cheryl M. Bourguignon as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Dr. Sabina A. Braithwaite as Assistant Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1998. Ms. Bethany P. Bryson as Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1998. Dr. Deborah J. Carver as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 20, 1998. Ms. Arista Maria Cirtautas as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Dr. Steven M. Cohn as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1998. Dr. Quanjun Cui as Assistant Professor of Research in Orthopaedic Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1998.Dr. Zachariah C. Dameron, III as Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 20, 1998. Mr. Martin N. Davidson as Associate Professor of Business Administration, for five academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Mr. Howard E. Epstein as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Ms. Elana Farace as Assistant Professor of Research in the Virginia Neurological Institute, for one year, effective June 1, 1998. Mr. Andrew R. Francis as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1998. Mr. Brent A. French as Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1998. Dr. Sim S. Galazka as Professor of Family Medicine, effective April 1, 1998. Dr. Thomas A. Gardner as Assistant Professor of Research in Urology, for one year, effective July 1, 1998. Dr. Chris A. Ghaemmaghami as Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1998. Mr. John L. Gittleman as Associate Professor of Biology, effective August 25, 1998. Dr. Adam N. Goldfarb as Associate Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 13, 1998. Ms. Laura A. Heim as Visiting Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1998. Ms. Bridget Hiedemann as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1998.Mr. Robert A. Hueckstedt as Visiting Associate Professor of Sanskrit/Hindi, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1998. Mr. Marty A. Humphrey as Research Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for one year, effective June-25, 1998. Ms. Louise L. Ivanov as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Dr. Jaideep Kapur as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1998. Dr. John A. Kern as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 6, 1998. Ms. Helen H. Kim as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Mr. Jinill Kim as Assistant Professor of Economics, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Mr. Jonathan S. Kippenham as Assistant Professor of Research in the Virginia Neurological Institute, for one year, effective June 15, 1998. Mr. Daniel S. Lefkowitz as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Dr. Michael A. Lopez as Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, for one year, effective July 13, 1998. Ms. Luann J. Lynch as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Ms. Debra E. Lyon as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Dr. James W. Mandell as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1998. Ms. Susan L. Martin-Marquez as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1998.Ms. Cheryl L. Mason as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1998. Dr. Cheri C. Mather as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1998. Ms. Maurie D. McInnis as Assistant Professor of Art History, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Ms. Alison G. Milbank as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective January 10, 1999. Mr. Caleb E. Nelson as Associate Professor of Law, for five academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Mr. John F. O'Brien as Assistant Professor of English, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Mr. Tom G. Obrig as Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1998. Mr. Peter D. Patrick as Associate Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for two years, effective July 1, 1998. Mr. Brian Pusser as Research Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1998. Mr. Adrian C. Rice as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1998. Ms. Dawn B. Rigney as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1998. Ms. Deborah A. Roach as Assistant Professor of Biology, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Ms. Evangelina Rodriguez-Cuadros as Visiting Professor of Spanish, for the period August 25, 1998 through January 9, 1999. Mr. Jeffrey J. Rossman as Assistant Professor of History, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1999.Ms. Maria S. Santisteban as Assistant Professor of Research in Microbiology, for the period February 1, 1998 through March 31, 1998. Mr. Nicolas Schmitt as Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, for the period August 25, 1998 through January 9, 1999. Mr. Helmut J. Schneider as Max Kade Visiting Professor of German, for the period August 25, 1998 through January 9, 1999. Ms. Kim S. Sexton as Visiting Assistant Professor of Architectural History, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1998. Dr. Mark E. Shaffrey as Associate Professor of Clinical Neurological Surgery, for one year, effective August 1, 1997. Mr. Nicholas E. Sherman as Assistant Professor of Research in Microbiology, for one year, effective February 1, 1998. Ms. Tyler J. Smith as Assistant Professor of Art, for two academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Mr. John W. Snell as Assistant Professor of Research in the Virginia Neurological Institute, for one year, effective May 4, 1998. Dr. David Strasburg as Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1998. Mr. Christopher A. Swann as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1998. Ms. Brenda M. Tanner as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective June 25, 1998. Mr. Jason E. Taylor as Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1998.Ms. Anne R. Ungar as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective July 1, 1998. Dr. Linda A. Waggoner-Fountain as Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for the period August 1, 1997 through June 30, 1999. Ms. Diane E. Whaley as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Ms. Jennifer A. Wicke as Professor of English, effective August 25, 1998. Dr. Judith A. Woodfolk as Assistant Professor of Research Support in Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1998. Dr. William A. Woods as Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, for three years, effective August 1, 1998. Dr. Terrance A. Yemen as Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective June 25, 1998.

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

(a) Election of Chairholder(s)

Mr. Kenneth S. Abraham as Albert Clark Tate, Jr., Professor of Law, for three years, effective May 25, 1998. Mr. Abraham will continue as Class of 1962 Professor of Law, without term. Mr. Charles D. Allis as Harry Flood Byrd, Jr., Professor of Biochemistry, effective July 1, 1998. Mr. Janis Antonovics as Lewis and Clark Professor of Biology, effective August 25, 1998.Mr. Vincent Blasi as David Lurton Massee, Jr., Professor of Law, without term, and Hunton and Williams Professor of Law, for three years, effective May 25, 1998. Mr. Richard J. Bonnie as Roy L. and Rosamond Woodruff Morgan Professor of Law, for three years, effective May 25, 1998. Mr. Bonnie will continue as Professor of Law, without term. Ms. Linda K. Bunker as William Clay Parrish, Jr., Professor of Education, for two years, effective June 25, 1998. Ms. Bunker will continue as Professor of Education, without term. Mr. Jonathan Z. Cannon as John A. Ewald, Jr., Distinguished Visiting Professor in the School of Law, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1998. Mr. Jay L. Chronister as Virgil S. Ward Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1998. Mr. Chronister will continue as Professor of Education, without term. Dr. Eugene C. Corbett, Jr. as Bernard B. and Anne L. Brodie Teaching Associate Professor in General Internal Medicine, effective May 25, 1998. Dr. Corbett will continue as Associate Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for the period May 25, 1998 through June 30, 2000. Mr. Charles J. Goetz as Harrison Foundation Research Professor of Law, for three years, effective May 25, 1998. Mr. Goetz will continue as Joseph M. Hartfield Professor of Law, without term. Dr. Charles B. Greyson as Priscilla Bonner and Margerie Bonner Lowry Professor in the Division of Personality Studies, effective May 25, 1998. Dr. Greyson will continue as Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, for the period August 16, 1998 through August 15, 1999. Mr. Michael J. Klarman as James Monroe Professor of Law, effective June 25, 1998. Mr. Klarman will continue as F. Palmer Weber Research Professor of Civil Liberties and Human Rights, for the period June 25, 1998 through June 24, 2000. Mr. Alasdair J. Milbank as Frances Myers Ball Professor in Philosophical Theology in the Department of Religious Studies, effective January 10, 1999.Mr. John T. Monahan as Horace W. Goldsmith Research Professor of Law, for three years, effective May 25, 1998. Mr. Monahan will continue as Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, without term. Mr. Jonathan D. Moreno as Emily Davie and Joseph S. Kornfeld Foundation Professor of Biomedical Ethics and Professor of Medical Education, effective July 1, 1998. Mr. Ramon H. Myers as C. K. Yen Professor in the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs, for the period August 25, 1998 through October 24, 1998. Mr. J. Dieter Stein as Brenton S. Halsey Distinguished Visiting Professor of Chemical Engineering, for the period January 10, 1999 through May 24, 1999. Dr. Jonathon D. Truwit as E. Cato Drash Associate Professor of Pulmonary Medicine, effective September 1, 1997. Dr. Truwit will continue as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without term. Mr. J. Hoult Verkerke as Earle K. Shawe Professor of Employment Law, for three years, effective May 25, 1998. Mr. Verkerke will continue as Professor of Law, without term. Mr. G. Edward White as Class of 1963 Research Professor of Law, for three years, effective May 25, 1998. Mr. White will continue as John Barbee Minor Professor of Law and History and University Professor, without term. Mr. George K. Yin as Howard W. Smith Professor of Law, effective August 25, 1998. Mr. Sankaran Venkataraman as Associate Professor of Business Administration, without term, and Samuel L. Slover Research Professor, for five years, effective August 25, 1998.

(b) Changes of Title of Chairholder(s)

Mr. John C. Fletcher from Emily Davie and Joseph S. Kornfeld Foundation Professor of Biomedical Ethics to Professor of Biomedical Ethics in Internal Medicine effective July 1, 1998.Dr. James S. Tiedeman from Dupont Guerry, III, Associate Professor of Ophthalmology to DuPont Guerry, III, Professor of Ophthalmology effective July 1, 1998.

(c) Special Salary Action of Chairholder(s) Deleted.

(d) Resignations of Chairholder(s) The following resignations were announced:

Mr. Tim Bollerslev as Commonwealth Professor of Economics, effective August 31, 1998, to accept another position. Ms. Pamela S. Karlan as Roy L. and Rosamond Woodruff Morgan Professor of Law, effective June 24, 1998, to accept another position. Mr. Saul Levmore as Brokaw Professor of Corporate Law, effective August 1, 1998, to accept another position. Ms. Julie A. Roin as Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, effective August 1, 1998, to accept another position. Dr. Raymond C. Roy as Distinguished Professor of Anesthesiology, effective July 15, 1998, to accept another position.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted: Ms. Margaret V. Foster from Assistant Professor of Law, General Faculty, to Associate Professor of Law, General Faculty, for three years, effective June 25, 1998. Ms. Jennie L. Moody from Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences to Research Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective June 25, 1998.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS DELETED
------------------------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced:

Mr. Wayne M. Alves, Associate Professor of Research in Neurological Surgery, effective July 24, 1998, to accept another position. Mr. Peter Berg, Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective March 24, 1998, for personal reasons. Mr. Francis B. Boateng, Assistant Professor of Research in Neurological Surgery, effective July 24, 1998, to accept another position. Mr. Anthony H. Catanach, Jr., Assistant Professor of Commerce, effective June 30, 1998, to accept another position. Mr. Peter A. Dewitz, Professor, General Faculty, effective June 24, 1998, for personal reasons. Mr. James C. Dunlop, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective August 21, 1998, for personal reasons. Mr. Christopher L. Dvergsten, Assistant Professor of Research in Neurological Surgery, effective July 24, 1998, to accept another position. Mr. John R. Elder, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective May 24, 1998, to accept another position. Mr. William T. Faranda, Assistant Professor of Commerce, effective August 3, 1998, to accept another position. Mr. Barry L. Farmer, Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, effective August 30, 1998, to accept another position. Mr. M. G. Finn, Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective May 24, 1998, to accept another position. Mr. Shiferaw Gurmu, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective August 20, 1998, to accept another position. Mr. Edward D. Melton, Associate Professor of Research in the Virginia Neurological Institute, effective July 24, 1998, to accept another position.Dr. John E. Humphries, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective May 1, 1998, to accept another position. Ms. J. Colleen Kelly, Associate Professor of Drama, effective May 24, 1998, to accept another position. Mr. Shakeeb Khan, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective August 24, 1998, to accept another position. Mr. Hui Liu, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective May 24, 1998, for personal reasons. Mr. Stephen N. Macciocchi, Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, effective June 12, 1998, to accept another position. Dr. Debbie M. Mack, Assistant Professor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine, effective June 30, 1998, to accept another position. Dr. Donald C. Manning, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, effective May 5, 1998, for personal reasons. Ms. Margaret K. Mayer, Assistant Professor of Systems Engineering, effective May 24, 1998, for personal reasons. Dr. Virinder Nohria, Assistant Professor of Neurology, effective May 31, 1998, to accept another position. Ms. Carol A. Otey, Assistant Professor of Cell Biology, effective June 30, 1998, for personal reasons. Ms. Wen-Chin Ouyang, Assistant Professor of Asian and Middle Eastern Languages and Cultures, effective May 24, 1998, to accept another position. Ms. Judy G. Ozbolt, Professor of Nursing, effective May 31, 1998, to accept another position. Mr. Timothy S. Prinz, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective June 1, 1998, to accept another position. Mr. Thomas J. Scanlan, Assistant Professor of English, effective August 31, 1998, to accept another position. Mr. Alan L. Smith, Assistant Professor of Education, General Faculty, effective May 24, 1998, to accept another position. Mr. John W. Snell, Assistant Professor of Research in the Virginia Neurological Institute, effective July 1, 1998, to accept another position.Ms. Jean T. Turner, Associate Professor of Nursing, effective May 24, 1998, for personal reasons.

RETIREMENT
----------

The following retirement was announced:

Ms. Barbara G. Murphy, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective July 1, 1998. Ms. Murphy has been a member of the faculty since August 16, 1974.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced:

Ms. Melody S. Bianchetto as Director of the Budget, for three years, effective August 1, 1998. Ms. Marlene H. Bond as Associate Vice President for Nursing, Health Sciences Center, for three years, effective April 14, 1998. Ms. Virginia C. Collins as Assistant to the President, for five years, effective April 25, 1998. Ms. Audrey M. Koch as Assistant to the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, for three years, effective July 25, 1998. Mr. James L. McBride as University Director of Career Planning and Placement, for three years, effective July 20, 1998. Mr. Harold H. Scott as Chief Information Officer, for three years, effective July 15, 1998. Mr. Wayne L. Smith as Executive Director of the Athletics Capital Campaign, for three years, effective July 1, 1998. Mr. Theo Van Groll as Director of International Studies, for two years, effective June 25, 1998.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced:

Dr. John T. Ashley as Associate Vice President for Health Sciences, for two years, effective July 1, 1998. Ms. Susan G. Harris as Assistant to the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, for three years, effective July 1, 1998.

DEATHS
------

Mr. David Levin, Thomas Jefferson Professor Emeritus of Arts and Sciences, died July 12, 1998. Mr. Levin was a member of the faculty from September 1, 1971 until his retirement, effective May 31, 1992. Ms. Mary A. MacDougall, Professor of Education, died May 17, 1998. Ms. MacDougall had been a member of the faculty since June 28, 1954.

RE-ELECTION OF MS. POLLEY MCCLURE AS VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that Ms. Polley A. McClure is re-elected as Vice President and Chief Information Officer, for five years, effective June 19, 1998.

RE-ELECTION OF MR. L. JAY LEMONS AS CHANCELLOR, CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that Mr. L. Jay Lemons is re-elected as Chancellor, Clinch Valley College, for five years, effective July 1, 1998.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ELECTIONS
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty: Ms. Debra L. Carter as Assistant Professor of Nursing, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1998. Ms. Anne W. Gilfoil as Assistant Professor of Spanish, Clinch Valley College, for two academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Ms. Megan E. Henry as Assistant Professor of Physics, Clinch Valley College, for two academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Mr. Kevin G. Jones as Assistant Professor of Biology, Clinch Valley College, for two academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Mr. Chang G. Park as Assistant Professor of Business, Clinch Valley College, for two academic years, effective August 25, 1998. Ms. Yenli Yeh as Assistant Professor of Sociology/Administration of Justice, Clinch Valley College, for two academic years, effective August 25, 1998.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced:

Mr. Larry W. Arrington, Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, effective July 31, 1998, to accept another position. Mr. Robert P. Morin, Assistant Professor of Administration of Justice, Clinch Valley College, effective August 11, 1998, to accept another position.Ms. Lori J. Starnes, Assistant Professor of Nursing, Clinch Valley College, effective June 10, 1998, for personal reasons.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced:

Mr. George E. Culbertson as Provost and Senior Vice Chancellor, Clinch Valley College, for three years, effective June 25, 1998. Mr. Gary W. Juhan as Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs, Clinch Valley College, for three years, effective June 25, 1998. Mr. N. B. Kennedy, III as Vice Chancellor for Development and College Relations, Clinch Valley College, for three years, effective June 25, 1998.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 12:55 p.m.

Respectfully submitted, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. Secretary

AGG:jb

BYLAWS — CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE BOARDI. TitleII. Purpose and DutiesA. Chancellor Search ProcessB. Naming of Campus FacilitiesC. Establishment of Tuition Rates for Kentucky ResidentsD. Other DutiesIII. Composition and AppointmentIV. Terms of OfficeV. Officers, Organization, Executive CommitteeVI. Committees of the Clinch Valley College BoardVII. MeetingsVIII. Compliance with the Commonwealth's Freedom of Information ActIX. Amendments to BylawsX. Revocation of Previous BylawsXI. Removal of Members
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The name of this body is the Clinch Valley College Board. The Clinch Valley College Board exists to serve the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in fulfilling its statutory authority over Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia.

The purpose of the Clinch Valley College Board is to promote the sound development of the institution in accordance with policy, as set by the University's President and/or the Rector and Visitors. The Clinch Valley College Board also serves in an advisory capacity to the Chancellor of the College, the President of the University, and the Board of Visitors on matters pertaining to Clinch Valley College.

Actions taken by the Board of Visitors, raised or proposed by the College, are normally preceded by deliberation of the Clinch Valley College Board. The Chancellor is responsible for assuring that there has been deliberation by the Clinch Valley College Board on matters brought forward to the Board of Visitors.

In the event of a vacancy in the chancellorship, the Chair of the Clinch Valley College Board shall consult with and seek the advice of the University President, and make recommendations to the President of persons to serve on the search committee. The recommendations should include representatives of the Clinch Valley College Board, the faculty, the student body, and the alumni. Upon the establishment of the search committee, the President shall establish a budget, identify staff for the committee, and name a chair.

The search committee, through its chair, shall make a preliminary report to the President regarding the work of the committee at the time when the committee is beginning to develop a group of final candidates. After finalists have been-interviewed, the search committee shall provide a report for the full Clinch Valley College Board. The report should contain the names of not more than three candidates, who in the judgment of the search committee are fully qualified and have a continuing interest in the chancellorship.

The Clinch Valley College Board, following receipt of the report of the search committee, shall review the candidates and formally recommend, with its reasons, not more than three candidates from the search committee's report for final consideration by the President. The President shall have responsibility for designating a nominee for the chancellorship, and making a recommendation for formal election by the Board of Visitors. On the operational level, the Chancellor is directly responsible to the President.

The Clinch Valley College Board shall develop its own policies regarding the naming of campus facilities, and submit them to the Rector and Visitors for approval. The Chancellor shall make recommendations to the Clinch Valley College Board regarding such actions as appropriate. The Clinch Valley College Board shall have responsibility and authority for the naming of major campus facilities in accordance with the policy approved by the Board of Visitors.

Section 23.7.4:2 (f) of the Code of Virginia provides that the Clinch Valley College Board and the Board of Visitors "may charge reduced tuition to any person enrolled at Clinch Valley College who lives within a fifty-mile radius of the College, is domiciled in, and is entitled to in-state tuition charges in the institutions of higher learning in Kentucky, if Kentucky has similar reciprocal provisions for persons domiciled in Virginia." It is the responsibility of the Chancellor or designee to develop, in consultation with the University's chief financial officer, a recommendation annually for tuition and fee rates for eligible Kentucky students that is presented for action to the Clinch Valley College Board and the Board of Visitors.

The Clinch Valley College Board shall also be responsible for any tasks or other duties delegated to it by the Board of Visitors or the President of the University.

The Clinch Valley College Board shall be composed of not fewer than nine, and not more than 17 persons, to be appointed by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia upon the recommendation of the President of the University. At least two-thirds members shall be residents of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and at least one-third shall be alumni of Clinch Valley College. Members of the faculty or staff of Clinch Valley College shall not be eligible for membership on the Clinch Valley College Board.

In addition, the Rector, the Chair of the Clinch Valley College Committee of the Board of Visitors, the President of the University, and the President of the CVC Alumni Association shall serve as voting ex-officio members of the Clinch Valley College Board.

Members shall be appointed to serve terms of four years. Terms shall be staggered to provide continuity, up to five members being appointed each year by the Board of Visitors. The Board of Visitors may make appointments of fewer than four-year terms to fill unexpired vacancies and when changing the number of members of the Clinch Valley College Board. No one shall serve more than two consecutive, full terms.

Terms shall commence July 1, and end on June 30.

At the last regular meeting of the year, the Clinch Valley College Board shall elect a chair and vice chair. The chair shall be elected for a two-year term and the vice chair for a one-year term. The chair-shall call all meetings of the Board, and shall be the presiding officer. The chair shall have such powers and duties as may be assigned to her/him from time to time by the President and Board of Visitors. The vice chair shall serve in the absence of the chair. In addition, the Clinch Valley College Board shall elect one of its members to formally serve as the secretary of the Board. The Board shall elect the chair, vice chair, and executive committee, and shall, if it desires, appoint a nominating committee for such. For all other purposes, the executive committee shall be the nominating committee.

Annually, the Clinch Valley College Board, upon recommendation of the Chancellor, shall elect a member of the College staff to serve as Clerk of the Board. The Clerk shall attend all meetings, and shall draft minutes of all proceedings. The Clerk shall work with the Clinch Valley College Board's secretary in finalizing minutes of all proceedings for action by the full Board, and shall assist the Clinch Valley College Board in the discharge of its duties.

At the last regular meeting of each year, the Clinch Valley College Board shall elect three of its voting members to serve with the chair and the vice chair as the executive committee. The executive committee shall meet upon the call of the chair, and between meetings of the Board it shall be vested with the powers and duties of the full Clinch Valley College Board. All such actions taken by the executive committee between meetings of the Clinch Valley College Board shall be reported to the full Clinch Valley College Board at the next annual or regular meeting. If confirmation is required, the action shall be confirmed and approved by the Board at that time.

The Clinch Valley College Board may establish and charge such committees as may be necessary, proper, or convenient to carry out its duties. Additionally, the Clinch Valley College Board may, upon the recommendation of the Chancellor, establish advisory bodies to engage other citizens in support of the College, its mission, and its programs.

Meetings shall be of three kinds: an annual meeting, at least two regular meetings, and special meetings as called. The Clinch Valley College Board shall hold one annual meeting in each fiscal year on the campus of Clinch Valley College at a time to be determined by the executive committee. At the annual meeting, the Clinch Valley College Board shall receive a report from the Chancellor of Clinch Valley College on the state of the College and review and decide on such other matters as may come before it. There shall be such regular meetings as the Clinch Valley College Board may determine. The executive committee shall determine the time, date, and place of such meetings. Special meetings may be called by the chair or upon the request of five voting members. A quorum of the Board for the conduct of business shall consist of six voting members. For meetings of the executive committee a quorum shall consist of three voting members.

Notice of the annual meeting and all regular meetings of the Clinch Valley College Board shall be given at least 10 days in advance of the meeting. Notice of all special meetings shall be given at least five days in advance of such special meeting unless waived in writing by each member of the Board. Notice of meetings shall be provided by mail at the direction of the chair.

The Clinch Valley College Board is a public body and as a result must comply with the Commonwealth of Virginia's Freedom of Information Act. Members of the Board shall be provided a copy of the Act by the Chancellor upon their appointment.

The Board of Visitors has the authority to effect changes in these Bylaws. Upon reasonable notice, recommendations for changes may come from the Clinch Valley College Board, or from the Board or Visitors. Recommendations from the Clinch Valley College Board for changes in the Bylaws must come as a result of the vote of two-thirds of the members in attendance at an annual or regular meeting of the Clinch Valley College Board.

All previous Bylaws are revoked upon the approval of these Bylaws by the Board of Visitors.

When any member fails to perform the duties of his or her office for one year without sufficient cause shown to the Clinch Valley College Board, the Clinch Valley College Board shall at its next meeting after the end of such year, cause the fact of such failure to be recorded in the minutes of its proceedings and certify the same to the Board of Visitors, and the office of such local board member shall be thereupon vacant.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OFVIRGINIA
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NAME

VOTE

COMMENTS

 

yesor no

 

John P. Ackerly, III

yes

 

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

 

Champ Clark

yes

 

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

yes

 

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

yes

 

T. Keister Greer

yes

 

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

 

Timothy B. Robertson

yes

 

Terence P. Ross

yes

 

Albert H. Small

absent

 

Elizabeth A. Twohy

yes

 

Henry L. Valentine, II

yes

 

Walter F. Walker

absent

 

Benjamin P.A. Warthen

yes

 

James C. Wheat, III

yes

 

Joseph E. Wolfe

yes

 

J. Michael Allen

yes

 

Meeting Date: October 9-10, 1998

CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 2

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 2 (Mr. Walker was present for a portion of the Executive Session)

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. Secretary, Board of Visitors, University of Virginia

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on October 9-10, 1998, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only, public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTECOMMENTS yesor no John P. Ackerly, IIIyes Charles M. Caravati, Jr.yes Champ Clarkyes William G. Crutchfield, Jr.yes William H. Goodwin, Jr.yes  T. Keister Greeryes Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Hollandyes Timothy B. Robertsonyes Terence P. Rossyes Albert H. Smallabsent Elizabeth A. Twohyyes Henry L. Valentine, IIyes Walter F. Walkerabsent Benjamin P.A. Warthenyes James C. Wheat, IIIyes Joseph E. Wolfeyes J. Michael Allenyes