 TEI to HTML

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS February 25-26, 2000
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Establishment of the Sidman P. Poole Professorship in Environmental Sciences

Establishment of the Elwood R. Quesada Professorship in Architecture

Establishment of the Ward K. Ensminger Distinguished Professorship in Geriatric Medicine Establishment of the Edward Watson Hook Distinguished Professorship in Internal Medicine

Establishment of the John W. Kluge Distinguished Professorship in Urology

Renaming of the E. James Kelly, Jr., Research Professorship in Law as the E. James Kelly, Jr., Class of 1965 Research Professorship in Law

Conflict of Interest Exemption (Upstate Biotechnology, Inc.

Conflict of Interest Exemption (DirectGene, Inc.)

Approval of the Architectural Design Guidelines for the Monroe Lane Student Residence Project

Approval to Remove Gildersleeve Apartment Building

Approval to Remove the Holly House

Approval to Remove CafÃ© North

Ratification of the Approval to Acquire the Orange Medical Office Building

Approval of the Schematic and Preliminary Design for the Fayerweather Hall Renovation Project

Approval of the Schematic Design for the White Burkett Miller Center Addition and Renovation Project

Approval of the Preliminary Design for the NRAO Addition and Renovation Project

Approval of the Preliminary Design for the Darden School Expansion

Approval of the Preliminary Design for the White Burkett Miller Center Addition and Renovation Project

Approval of the Preliminary Design for the Law School Expansion Project

Approval of Student Housing Rates for 2000-2001

Approval of Summary of Audit Findings

Approval to Rename the Division of Continuing Education the School of Continuing and Professional Studies

Resolution on Fraternities and Sororities

Report on Actions Taken by the Executive Committee

• Approval of Medical Center Employees Salary Adjustments

• Salary Recommendations for the President and the Chancellor of the University of Virginia's College at Wise

• Extension of Lease on Pavilion IX

Approval of the Sale of the Wertland Street Property

Approval of the Acquisition of City Property

Approval to Purchase Kidney Dialysis Unit

Approval of Additional Swap Transactions

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Promotions

Resignations

Retirements

Appointments

Reappointments

Election of Professors Emeriti

Election of Associate Professor Emeritus

Death

Change in the Retirement of Mr. J. Christopher Crocker

Change in the Election of Professor Emeritus of Mr. J. Christopher Crocker

Change in the Election of Ms. Sarah E. Harrell

Change in the Election of Ms. Sepideh Khorasanizadeh

Change in the Election of Mr. Dylan C. Penningroth

Change in the Election of Ms. Karen Van Lengen

Re-election of Peter W. Low as Vice President and Provost

The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Elections

Resignation

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 8:05 a.m., Friday, February 25, 2000, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, presided. Charles M. Caravati, Jr., M.D., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Timothy B. Robertson, Terence P. Ross, Albert H. Small, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, Henry L. Valentine, II, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, James C. Wheat, III, Joseph E. Wolfe, and Robert G. Schoenvogel were present.

Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Robert W. Cantrell, M.D., Peter W. Low, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Ernest H. Ern, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Gene D. Block, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Minutes of the Board meetings of October 14-16, 1999, and January 11, January 22, and February 16, 2000, were approved.

The President reported on several bills before the General Assembly this session that are of interest to the University. He noted, too, that the Blue Ribbon Commission on Education presented its final report to the Governor on February 3rd. He also reported on the progress of the Commonwealth's Budget for the next biennium through the General Assembly. Finally, he noted the administrative realignments that have taken place in the President's Office.

The Rector commended the President for his work with the Legislature this session on behalf of the University.

With regard to the Blue Ribbon Commission report, the Rector asked that Mr. Greer, as Chair of the Educational Policy Committee, Mr. Robertson, as a member of the Blue Ribbon Commission, and a member of the Administration, all study the Commission's report and suggest recommendations on its implementation to the full Board at the April Board meeting.

The meeting was recessed at 8:25 a.m.

The full Board resumed its meeting in Open Session, with the Rector presiding, at 2:30 p.m., Friday, February 25, 2000, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda. All Members were present except Mr. Goodwin.

On motion, the Board adopted the following motions permitting it to meet in Executive Session according to the exemptions specified in the Virginia Freedom of Information Act:

That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing a proposed acquisition and proposed disposition of two parcels of real estate, which if made public initially would adversely affect the University's bargaining position and financial interests, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(3) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the discussion and consideration of the status and terms of a proposed gift of property to the University, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss and consider hedging a part of the Endowment where competition and bargaining is involved, and where, if made public initially, the financial interest of the University would be adversely affected, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(6) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to analyze and discuss proprietary business-related information pertaining to the operations of the Medical Center regarding acquisition of a clinic operation, as well as the restructuring of an existing joint venture, and Medicaid reimbursement rates impacting Medical Center contracting and cost reduction strategies, where disclosure thereof would adversely affect the competitive position of the Medical Center, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(23) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing the University Auditor's performance evaluations of University departments and programs, which will necessarily involve discussion of the performance of specific employees, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to consult with General Counsel on the present disposition of pending litigation and further litigation strategy, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of considering the appointment of a student member to the Board of Visitors in accordance with Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to review the performance and present and future assignments of senior University administrators and related fund-raising expectations to finance University operations, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board went into Executive Session at 2:35 p.m. and continued to 4:00 p.m., when it recessed the Executive Session until Saturday morning, February 26th.

The full Board resumed its meeting in Open Session at 4:00 p.m. in the Dome Room of the Rotunda with all Members present save Mr. Goodwin; the Rector presided.

On motion, the Board adopted the following resolutions:

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SIDMAN P. POOLE PROFESSORSHIP IN ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Sidman P. Poole, a native of New York and an alumnus of Syracuse University and the University of Chicago, joined the faculty of the University of Virginia as Professor of Geography after World War II; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Poole and his wife, Rachel Sumner Poole, made signficant contributions to the life of University community;

WHEREAS, Mr. Poole died in 1955 and Mrs. Poole in 1999; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Poole made a generous gift to the University to establish a professorship in honor of Mr. Poole;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Sidman P. Poole Professorship in Environmental Sciences, to be held in the Department of Environmental Sciences, and in so doing honors the contributions of Professor and Mrs. Poole to the University of Virginia.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ELWOOD R. QUESADA PROFESSORSHIP IN ARCHITECTURE
--------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, General Elwood R. Quesada made significant contributions to American aviation; and

WHEREAS, General Quesada's sons T. Ricardo Quesada and Peter W. Quesada, and his granddaughter Charlotte Quesada, are alumni of the University of Virginia; and

WHEREAS, the Quesada family has made a generous gift to the School of Architecture to establish a professorship in memory of General Quesada; and

WHEREAS, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Saunders III, and Calvert Saunders Moore gave generously to the School of Architecture to establish professorships; and

WHEREAS, the Quesada gift and a portion of the Saunders family gift will be used to create a chair to honor General Quesada;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Elwood R. Quesada Professorship in Architecture, to be held in the School of Architecture, and thanks the Quesada and Saunders families for their generosity and support.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WARD K. ENSMINGER DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN GERIATRIC MEDICINE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Mr. Ward K. Ensminger, a native of Ohio but a resident of Charlottesville in his later years, established the Ward K. Ensminger Charitable Trust; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Virginia G. Shepherd, trustee of the Ensminger Trust, has made a gift from the Trust to honor the memory of Mr. Ensminger and his interest in geriatrics;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Ward K. Ensminger Distinguished Professorship in Geriatric Medicine, to be held in the School of Medicine, expresses appreciation to Mrs. Shepherd for her interest, and honors the memory of Mr. Ensminger who made this gift possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EDWARD WATSON HOOK DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN INTERNAL MEDICINE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Dr. Edward Watson Hook, a native of South Carolina, joined the University of Virginia in 1969 as Henry B. Mulholland Professor of Medicine and Chairman of the Department of Medicine; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Hook developed his Department into one of the most distinguished departments of internal medicine in the country; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Hook is remembered as a superb physician, teacher and scholar, and for his many contributions to the life of the University of Virginia; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Hook died in 1998; and

WHEREAS, friends, colleagues, patients, former students and the family of Dr. Hook have given generously to establish a professorship in his memory;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Edward Watson Hook Distinguished Professorship in Internal Medicine and in so doing honors the life and achievements of Dr. Hook.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOHN W. KLUGE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN UROLOGY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, John W. Kluge has been a most generous supporter of the University of Virginia, the range of his benefactions reflecting the broad spectrum of his interests; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Kluge has a particular interest in medicine and in prostate cancer research; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Kluge has made a generous gift to the University to establish a professorship in urology;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the John W. Kluge Distinguished Professorship in Urology, to be held in the Department of Urology at the School of Medicine, and expresses its appreciation to Mr. Kluge for this latest instance of his generosity and support.

RENAMING OF THE E. JAMES KELLY, JR., RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW AS THE E. JAMES KELLY, JR., CLASS OF 1965 RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Law School Class of 1965 raised more than $425,000 for their 25th reunion class gift in 1990, more than had ever before been raised by a 25th reunion law class; and

WHEREAS, the greater part of that gift was used for the E. James Kelly, Jr., Research Professorship in Law, established by the Board of Visitors in 1991 to honor the memory of Mr. Kelly who was a member of the Class of 1965; and

WHEREAS, the leaders of the Class's fundraising effort have asked that the name of the Professorship be changed to recognize their classmates' generosity

RESOLVED that the E. James Kelly, Jr., Research Professorship in Law, be changed to the E. James Kelly, Jr. - Class of 1965 Research Professorship in Law.

On further motion, the Board adjourned for the day at 4:30 p.m.

The full Board resumed its recessed Executive Session meeting at 8:30 a.m., Saturday, February 26, 2000, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda. The Rector presided and all Members were present.

The meeting lasted in Executive Session until 10:15 a.m. when the Board recessed and resumed in Open Session.

Continuing a discussion that began at the Board meeting on January 22nd, Mr. Sandridge gave a presentation on the possible aspirations for the future of the University, along with some of the costs involved. The discussion centered on what national ranking the University wants to achieve and sustain.

The Board recessed at 11:05 a.m.

At 11:20 a.m., the Board resumed in Executive Session and continued in camera, except for a short recess for lunch, until 4:20 p.m.

The full Board resumed its meeting in Open Session at 4:20 p.m., the Rector presiding, with the following Members present: Charles M. Caravati, Jr., M.D., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Terence P. Ross, Albert H. Small, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, James C. Wheat, III, Joseph E. Wolfe, and Robert G. Schoenvogel.

Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Robert D. Sweeney, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION (Upstate Biotechnology, Inc.)
------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the School of Medicine wishes to enter into a sponsored research contract with Upstate Biotechnology Inc., a New York Corporation, for funding research in and commercialization of innovative and hard to find bioreagents; and

WHEREAS, David Allis, Ph.D., receives annual income in excess of $10,000 from Upstate Biotechnology Inc., and the University's entry into a research agreement with Upstate Biotechnology, Inc., would thereby expose him to violation of the Conflicts of Interest Act unless the conflict is approved by the Board as permitted by Section 2.1-639.6 (c) (7) of the Code of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the conflict is approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to negotiate and enter into a proposed contract for the development of immunological reagents directed at the chemical modifications of histone proteins; provided, as required by the law, the faculty file the required annual disclosure statement of personal income from Upstate Biotechnology Inc., the University files the required annual report concerning the contract with the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and the department chair vigilantly oversees application of University resources and personnel engaged in the transaction so as to ensure the continuing best interests of the University and compliance with University policy.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION (DirectGene, Inc.)
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: (Dr. Caravati abstained from voting).

WHEREAS, the School of Medicine wishes to enter into a sponsored research contract with DirectGene, Inc., a Delaware Corporation, for developing adenoviral based gene therapies for cancer and bone repair; and

WHEREAS, Leland W.K. Chung, Ph.D., and spouse, Haiyen E. Zhau, Ph.D., and daughters, Lynna K. Chung and Shunney H.C. Nair, Chinghai Kao, Ph.D., and spouse, Meei-Huey Jeng, Ph.D., have disclosed in advance their equity interests of 1.2, 2.7, 2.2, 2.2, 1.2, 2.1 percent, respectively, in DirectGene, Inc., and the University's entry into a research agreement with DirectGene, Inc. would thereby expose them to violation of the Conflicts of Interest Act unless approved by the Board as permitted by Section 2.1-639.6 (c) (7) of the Code of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the conflict is approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to negotiate and enter into a proposed contract for developing adenoviral based gene therapies; provided, as required by the law, the faculty file the required annual disclosure statement of personal interests in DirectGene, Inc., the University files the required annual report concerning the contract with the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and the department chair vigilantly oversees application of University resources in the best interests of the University and in accordance with policy.

APPROVAL OF THE ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE MONROE LANE STUDENT RESIDENCE PROJECT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated February 25, 2000, prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Monroe Lane Student Residence project, are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE GILDERSLEEVE APARTMENT BUILDING
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University owns the Gildersleeve Apartment Building (FAACS Building Number: 207-2135) at 400/402 Monroe Lane, the 412 Monroe Lane Residence (FAACS Building Number: 207-2133), and the Monroe Alley Residence (FAACS Building Number: 207-2134) in Charlottesville; and

WHEREAS, these structures must be demolished to allow the construction of the Monroe Lane Student Residence; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources;

RESOLVED that the removal of the Gildersleeve Apartment Building (207-2135), the 412 Monroe Lane Residence (207-2133), and the Monroe Alley Residence (207-2134) is approved by the Board of Visitors pending approval by the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned buildings, and that the said officer ensure that the required report regarding the building removal is sent to the Department of General Services.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE THE HOLLY HOUSE
----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University owns the Holly House building (FAACS Building Number: 207-2604) at 285 Faulkner Drive in Albemarle County; and

WHEREAS, this structure must be demolished to allow the addition to the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources;

RESOLVED that the removal of the Holly House (207-2604) is approved by the Board of Visitors pending approval by the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned building, and that the said officer ensure that the required report regarding the building removal is sent to the Department of General Services.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE CAFI NORTH
-----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University owns Cafi North (FAACS Building Number: 207-0530) at the University's North Grounds in Albemarle County; and

WHEREAS, this structure must be demolished for the expansion of the Law School; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources;

RESOLVED that the removal of Cafi North (207-0530) is approved by the Board of Visitors pending approval by the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned building, and that the said officer ensure that the required report regarding the building removal is sent to the Department of General Services.

RATIFICATION OF THE APPROVAL TO ACQUIRE THE ORANGE MEDICAL OFFICE BUILDING
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia wishes to purchase real estate located at 661 University Lane, Orange, Virginia, from the Health Services Foundation to support the Health System's mission of providing accessible primary care services throughout Central Virginia; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has previously approved the issuance of bonds to acquire the Orange Medical Office Building; and

WHEREAS, in 1998, the General Assembly authorized the acquisition of the Orange Medical Office Building project;

RESOLVED that the acquisition of the Orange Medical Office Building, as recommended by the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, is approved by the Board of Visitors.

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all contracts or documents pertaining to the acquisition of the aforementioned property.

APPROVAL OF THE SCHEMATIC AND PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE FAYERWEATHER HALL RENOVATION PROJECT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the schematic and preliminary design, dated November 23, 1999, and prepared by Dagit Saylor of Philadelphia, for the Fayerweather Renovation project, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF THE SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER ADDITION AND RENOVATION PROJECT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the schematic design, datedNovember 23, 1999 November 23, 1999, and prepared by Geier Brown Renfrow of Alexandria, for the White Burkett Miller Center Addition and Renovation project is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the preliminary design level of development.

APPROVAL OF THE PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE NRAO ADDITION AND RENOVATION PROJECT
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the preliminary design, dated November 23, 1999, and prepared by the Greenwood Partnership of Williamsburg, for the National Radio Astronomy Observatory Addition and Renovation project, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF THE PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE DARDEN SCHOOL EXPANSION
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the preliminary design, dated February 25, 2000, and prepared by Ayers/Saint/Gross of Baltimore, for the Darden School Expansion project is approved for further development and construction. The design of the central pavilion of the Bookstore end of the Sponsors Hall Addition, however, is to be reworked and presented for review, with the understanding that the modifications in the plan will not affect the construction schedule for the project.

APPROVAL OF THE PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER ADDITION AND RENOVATION PROJECT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the preliminary design, dated February 25, 2000, and prepared by Geier Brown Renfrow of Alexandria, for the White Burkett Miller Center Addition and Renovation project, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF THE PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE LAW SCHOOL EXPANSION PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the preliminary design, dated February 25, 2000, and prepared by Train & Spencer of Charlottesville, for the Law School Expansion project, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 2000-2001APPROVAL OF STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 2000-2001
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Room Rent

Facility

Actual1999-2000Per StudentPer Session

Amount ofIncrease

PercentageIncrease

Proposed 2000-2001Per StudentPer Session

Academic DivisionDORMITORIES

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Double Room

$2,020

$80

4.0%

$2,100

Brown College

Double Room

$2,530

$100

3.9%

$2,630

McCormick Road

Double Room

$1,930

$70

3.6%

$2,000

Small Double Room

$1,750

$70

4.0%

$1,820

Single

$2,030

$80

3.9%

$2,110

Per Day Rate

$8

$0

0.0%

$8

Lawn

Small Single

$2,410

$90

3.7%

$2,500

Regular Single

$2,410

$90

3.7%

$2.500

Small Single \*(no fireplace)

$2,340

$90

3.8%

$2.430

Range

Regular Single

$2,410

$90

3.7%

$2,500

Crackerbox

Single Room

$2,410

$90

3.7%

$2,500

Mary Munford/Roberta Gwathmey

Double Room

$2,020

$80

4.0%

$2,100

Single Room

$2,410

$90

3.7%

$2,500

Sprigg (Lewis/Hoxton)

Double Room

$2,300

$90

3.9%

$2,390

single Room

$2,570

$100

3.9%

$2,670

Single Room (w/bath)

$2,710

$100

3.7%

$2,810

Room Rent

Facility

Actual1999-2000Per StudentPer Session

Amount ofIncrease

PercentageIncrease

Proposed 2000-2001Per StudentPer Session

Gooch / Dillard

Double Room

$2,300

$90

3.9%

$2,390

Single Room

$2,570

$100

3.9%

$2,670

Twelve Month Rate:

Single Room

$3,650

$140

3.8%

$3,790

Hereford College

Double Room

$2,410

$90

3.7%

$2,500

Single Room

$2,530

$100

3.9%

$2,630

French House

Triple Room

$2,180

$80

3.7%

$2,260

Double Room

$2,300

$90

3.9%

$2,390

Single Room

$2,620

$100

3.8%

$2,720

German House

Single Room

$2,340

$90

3.8%

$2,430

Russia House

Double Room

$2,220

$80

3.6%

$2,300

Single Room

$2,560

$100

3.9%

$2,660

Spanish House

Double Room

$2,340

$90

3.8%

$2,430

Single Room

$2,620

$100

.8%

$2,720

APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENT

Copeley Hill III, IV,Lambeth Field

Two Bedroom (double occupancy)

$2,330

$90

3.9%

$2,420

Three Bedroom (double occupancy)

$2,240

$80

3.6%

$2,320

Bice House

Two Bedroom (double occupancy)

$2,330

$90

3.8%

$2,420

Three Bedroom (double occupancy)

$2,240

$80

3.6%

$2,320

Room Rent

Facility

Actual1999-2000Per StudentPer Session

Amount ofIncrease

PercentageIncrease

Proposed 2000-2001Per StudentPer Session

Faulkner (Hench, Mitchell,Younger)

Single

$2,610

$100

3.8%

$2,710

Large Single

$3,200

$120

3.7%

$3,320

APARTMENTS - FAMILY (per month)

Copeley Hill I & II

One Bedroom (furnished)

$497

$19

3.8%

$516

One Bedroom (unfurnished)

$471

$17

3.6%

$488

Two Bedroom (furnished)

$548

$21

3.8%

$569

Two Bedroom (unfurnished)

$521

$20

3.8%

$541

Three Bedroom (furnished)

$594

$23

3.9%

$617

Three Bedroom (unfurnished)

$568

$21

3.7%

$589

University Gardens

One Bedroom (furnished)

$481

$19

3.9%

$500

One Bedroom (unfurnished)

$454

$18

4.0%

$472

Two Bedroom (furnished)

$520

$20

3.8%

$540

Two Bedroom (unfurnished)

$493

$19

3.8%

$512

Clinch Valley College

McCraray, Crockett,Martha Randolph

$2,400

$68

2.8%

$2,468

Asbury, Thompson,Townhouse

$2,774

$78

2.8%

$2,852

Notes:• These rates include utility charges, Cable TV (in apartments) and Post office box rental.• The furnished apartment rate in Copeley Hill and University Gardens will go into effect as the units turn over.

MOUNTAIN LAKE BIOLOGICAL STATION RATES

Actual1999

InflationRate

InflationIncrease

Total

Proposed2000 Rate

Percent Increase

\*BOARD RATES PER TERM (4 weeks)

Persons 17 years 4 older

$415.00

2.6%

$10.79

$425.79

$426.00

2.65%

Persons 10-16 years old

$223.00

2.6%

$5.80

$228.80

$229.00

2.69%

Persons 9 yrs 6 younger

$138.00

2.6%

$3.59

$141.59

$142.00

2.90%

\*SUMMER HOUSING RATES PER TERM(4 weeks)

CABINS

$158.00

2.6%

$4.11

$162.11

$162.00

2.53%

LAING APTS

$121.00

2.6%

$3.15

$124.15

$124.00

2.49%

DORM/SINGLES

$86.00

2.6%

$2.24

$88.24

$88.00

2.33%

NEW DORM:

Apts (2 rooms)

$138.00

2.6%

$3.59

$141.59

$142.00

2.90%

2nd bedroom (family)

$44.00

2.6%

$1.14

$45.14

$45.00

2.27%

singles

$98.00

2.6%

$2.55

$100.55

$101.00

3.06%

OFF SEASON RATESSingles/Guests:

Night

$10.00

2.6%

$0.26

$10.26

$10.00

0.00%

Week

$46.00

2.6%

$1.20

$47.20

$50.00

8.70%

Month

$184.00

2.6%

$4.78

$158.78

$200.00

8.70%

Family:

Night

$13.00

2.6%

$0.34

$13.34

$13.50

3.85%

Week

$65.00

2.6%

$1.69

$66.69

$367.50

3.05%

Month

$260.00

2.6%

$6.76

$266.76

$270.00

3.85%

GROUP USE FEES (OFF-SEASON)

Classroom/day

$25.00

Dining Hall/day

$50.00

New Dorm Kitchen/day

$25.00

Auditorium/day

$25.00

Pavilion only

No charge

Notes:• New Summer Term is 4 Weeks. 1999 figures reflect 4/5" adjustment.Cabins: Hariot. Leconte, Catesby, Banister, Cattinger, Holbrook, Mitchell, Maphis, Schoew, Rafinesqus, Michaux, Sums, Clayton, Hentz-Mohr and Nashington. Laing Apartments: Laing South, North, Center, Northwest and West Dorms/Singles: Chapman, Elliott, DeSchweinitz, Audubon, Laing Singles, Laundry and other cottages when used as dorms.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that rental increases for student housing facilities be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 2000-2001 session:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that rental increases for student housing facilities be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 2000-2001 sessions:

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period September 1, 1999 through December 31, 1999, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period September 1, 1999 through December 31, 1999, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL TO RENAME THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING AND PROFESSIONAL STUDIES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Division of Continuing Education was designated as a School of the University from 1961 until 1977; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors adopted its present name in 1977; and

WHEREAS, the Division of Continuing Education has been a credit-granting unit of the University for many years and, as a result of action by the Board of Visitors in 1999, is now authorized to award the degree of Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies (BIS); and

WHEREAS, it is appropriate to recognize the credit-granting and degree-granting status of the Division by redesignating it as a School of the University; and

WHEREAS, redesignating the Division as a School of the University will enhance the University's role in life-long learning through continuing education and reaffirm the Board's commitment to educational outreach throughout the Commonwealth;

RESOLVED that the name "Division of Continuing Education" be changed to="School of Continuing and Professional Studies," effective February 26, 2000.

RESOLUTION ON FRATERNITIES AND SORORITIES
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors supports the University's fraternities and sororities and recognizes the importance of their roles in the life of students;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors declines to involve itself in the setting of rush dates unless it is established at a future date that the delay of rush seriously prejudices the financial stability of fraternities or sororities;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors affirms the authority of the Administration to determine the start date of rush for first-year students;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors directs the University administration to work with the fraternity and sorority leadership to promote the good health and strength of the fraternity and sorority systems and to report to the Board at its June meeting of steps taken to strengthen the fraternity and sorority systems.

GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
----------------------------

The President made his customary report on gifts, grants, and contracts realized since the October Board meeting. The report was accepted.

REPORT ON ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE • APPROVAL OF MEDICAL CENTER EMPLOYEES SALARY ADJUSTMENTS (November 17, 1999)• SALARY RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE PRESIDENT AND THE CHANCELLOR OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE (November 17, 1999) • EXTENSION OF LEASE ON PAVILION IX (February 24, 2000)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Sandridge, reported on the following actions taken by the Executive Committee on November 17, 1999, and on February 24, 2000:

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the codified autonomy legislation expanded the Board of Visitors authority to establish compensation plans; and

WHEREAS, compensation surveys and trend data of salaries paid by area, state and regional health care and other employers have been conducted and analyzed; and

WHEREAS, the results of this information support an average salary increase of 4%, for Medical Center employees, effective January 9, 2000;

RESOLVED that the performance based salary adjustments of 4% of payroll and adjustment of salary ranges by 1% at the minimum and 3% at the maximum are approved.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia approve the 1999-2000 salary recommendations for the President of the University of Virginia and for the Chancellor of The University of Virginia's College at Wise;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia attest to their positive evaluation of the performances of President John T. Casteen, III, and Chancellor L. Jay Lemons.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the lease on Pavilion IX for Karen van Lengen, Dean of the School of Architecture, and her family, be extended for one year from August 17, 2000, its present date of termination, to August 16, 2001.

APPROVAL OF THE SALE OF THE WERTLAND STREET PROPERTY
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University wishes to sell real estate at the north end of the U4 Parking Lot, which is located near the intersection of Wertland Street and 14th Street in Charlottesville, to the Renaissance Investment Corporation; and

WHEREAS, the land sale was approved by the Secretary of Administration, as the Governor's representative, pursuant to Section 2.1-512 and Section 23-4.1 of the Code of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the sale of University property on Wertland Street, as recommended by the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, be approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all contracts or documents pertaining to the sale of the aforementioned property.

APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF CITY PROPERTY
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University wishes to purchase from the City of Charlottesville real estate located on the east side of Emmet Street at the intersection of Emmet Street and Massie Road in Charlottesville, to support future University growth and to protect and enhance one of the University's major entrance corridors; and

WHEREAS, the land may be acquired through a blanket capital outlay authorization approved in 1998 by the General Assembly; and

WHEREAS, University staff have represented to the Board that all required internal policies, procedures, guidelines, reviews and approvals have been complied with in connection with the purchase; and

WHEREAS, the City of Charlottesville wants to receive real estate taxes or their equivalent for the assessed value of the Emmet Street Property; and

WHEREAS, the University agrees to add approximately $1,750 annually to the base amount the University pays to the City as a voluntary fire services contribution, which is an amount equivalent to the city tax rate for the Emmet Street property; and

WHEREAS, approval of the acquisition of real estate under 2.1-504.2 of the Code of Virginia has been delegated to the Board of Visitors;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the purchase of the property owned by the City of Charlottesville and located on Emmet Street, for a price not to exceed the appraised value as determined by an outside independent appraisal, plus reasonable costs of the transaction.

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all contracts or documents pertaining to the acquisition of the aforementioned property.

APPROVAL TO PURCHASE KIDNEY DIALYSIS UNIT
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia intends to expand its kidney dialysis business to continue and further its mission of clinical care, teaching, and research; and

WHEREAS, there is an opportunity for expansion by the acquisition of an existing kidney dialysis unit; and

WHEREAS, the financial analysis indicates that purchasing the kidney dialysis unit is economically viable for the University;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia approves the purchase of the kidney dialysis unit business for a price not to exceed the appraised value as determined by an outside independent appraisal, plus reasonable costs of the transaction;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, with the consent of the Chair of the Finance Committee, and in consultation with the General Counsel, is authorized to negotiate and execute contracts and other documents pertaining to the acquisition of the aforementioned kidney dialysis unit.

APPROVAL OF ADDITIONAL SWAP TRANSACTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the University to provide for its officers to execute and deliver contracts, agreements and other documentation which relate to its endowment involving selling shares short, option contracts, and/ or swap agreements; and

WHEREAS, such contracts and agreements may constitute a borrowing and/or pledge of securities, assets and rights held by the endowment as authorized by Virginia Code 23-30.01 with at least two-thirds vote of the Board of Visitors and approval of the Governor; and

WHEREAS on January 11, 2000, the Board of Visitors authorized the execution of a swap agreement under certain terms and conditions, which was amended by its Resolution of February 16, 2000 in order to extend the time for executing the contemplated transactions; and

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia Investment Management Company has recommended further authorization to undertake additional swap transactions as hereafter provided;

RESOLVED, subject to the approval of the Governor, the Board of Visitors hereby approves additional swap transactions with an investment banking firm or financial institution in order to protect the endowment fund against market correction, provided that such agreements are executed on or before June 30, 2000, do not exceed a term of more than one year and shall not affect more than ten stocks held within the University's venture capital portfolio;

RESOLVED FURTHER, The Treasurer of the University of Virginia, or such other University officer as the Board of Visitors may direct, is authorized to execute and deliver such related contracts and documents as necessary or advisable to complete the swap transactions, provided such documents shall not constitute a pledge of the full faith and credit of the Commonwealth, the University or the Governor of Virginia. Any such agreements executed by the University Treasurer, or such other authorized officer, shall be reported to the Board of Visitors at its next regular meeting. The University shall forthwith seek the approval of the Governor of Virginia so as to protect the significant gains in the new technology stocks held in the University's endowment.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONS ELECTIONSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Election of Chairholder(s)(b) Change of Title of Chairholders(c) Retirement of Chairholder(e) Resignations of ChairholdersPROMOTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS - DELETED RESIGNATIONS RETIREMENTSAPPOINTMENTSRE-APPOINTMENTS ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI ELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUS DEATH CHANGE IN THE RETIREMENT OF MR. J. CHRISTOPHER CROCKERCHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS OF MR. J. CHRISTOPHER CROCKER CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MS. SARAH E. HARRELLCHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MS. SEPIDEH KHORASANIZADEHCHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MR. DYLAN C. PENNINGROTH CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MS. KAREN VAN LENGENRE-ELECTION OF PETER W. LOW AS VICE PRESIDENT AND PROVOST
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirements were announced:

The following appointments were announced:

The following re-appointments were announced:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Associate Professor Emeritus:

Mr. Thaddeus Braxton Woody, Professor Emeritus of French, died January 9, 2000. Mr. Woody was a member of the faculty from 1928 until his retirement, effective June 30, 1971.

The retirement of Mr. J. Christopher Crocker, Professor of Anthropology, effective May 24, 1999, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 27, 1999, was changed to read as follows:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the election of Mr. J. Christopher Crocker, Professor of Anthropology, effective May 24, 1999, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 27, 1999, be changed to read as follows:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Sarah E. Harrell as Visiting Assistant Professor of Classics, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1999, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of October 16, 1999, be changed to read as follows:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Sepideh Khorasanizadeh as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, for three years, effective July 1, 1999, as shown in the Minutes of the Meeting of October 16, 1999, be changed to read as follows:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the election of Mr. Dylan C. Penningroth as Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1999, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of October 16, 1999, be changed to read as follows:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Karen Van Lengen as Edward E. Elson Professor of Architecture, effective June 25, 1999, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of May 15, 1999, be changed to read as follows:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that Peter W. Low is re-elected as Vice President and Provost, for two years, effective July 1, 1999.

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISEELECTIONS RESIGNATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

The following resignation was announced:

The Rector noted Mr. Small's retirement from the Board on the expiration of his term, and thanked him for his service and for his contributions to the Board and to the life of the University. On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 4:40 p.m.

AGG:jb