 TEI to HTML

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS APRIL 6-7, 2001
------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Resolution of Commendation for Stephen Stratford Phelan, Jr.

5958

Resolutions adopted by the Executive Committee on March 22, 2001:

a. Establishment of Position of Dean of the School of Medicine and Vice President

5959

b. Assignment of Pavilion X

5960

c. University Judiciary Standards of Conduct

5960

Approval of Executive Session Resolution

5962

Establishment of the William Parson Visiting Professorship in Teaching Excellence in the School of Medicine

5962

Establishment of the Merrill D. Peterson Professorship in the School of Architecture

5963

Naming of a New Building in the Engineering School Complex as Wilsdorf Hall

5963

Approval of Executive Session Resolution

5964

Approval of Increase in Faculty and Staff Housing Rates for 2001-2002 for the Academic Division and The University of Virginia's College at Wise

5965

Qualified Defined Contribution Retirement Plan for Community Medicine, LLC Physicians

5967

Approval of Architect Selection for Monroe Hall Addition

5968

Approval of Architect Selection for a Term Contract for ADA Projects

5968

Approval of Architect Selection for the Garrett Hall Renovation Project

5968

PAGE

Approval of Engineer Selection for a Term Contract

5969

Approval of Engineer Selection for a Term Contract for Mechanical, Electrical, and Plumbing Projects for Utility Projects

5969

Approval to Establish the M.A. Degree in Digital Humanities in the Media Studies Program in the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences

5969

Election of a Miller Center Council Member

5969

Approval of Increase in Tuition and Required Fees and Other Charges for the Academic Division

5970

Approval of Allocation of Required Fees for 2001-2002 for the Academic Division

5973

Approval of Special Session Fee Rate

5973

Approval of Increase in Tuition and Required Fees and Other Charges for The University of Virginia's College at Wise

5974

Approval of Contract Rates for Dining Services for 2001-2002 for the Academic Division and The University of Virginia's College at Wise

5975

Approval of a Short Term Construction Loan of $13.0 Million for the Carl Smith Center/Scott Stadium Expansion

5976

Approval to Extend the Maturity to Fiscal Year 2009 for the 3.0 Million Internal Loan for The University of Virginia's College at Wise Stadium Project

5976

Approval of Endowment Spending Policy

5977

Approval of Revised Enrollment Projections for 2000-2006

5977

Approval of Six-Year Capital Outlay Plan

5978

Approval of the Virginia 2020 Commission Reports

5978

PAGE

Resolution Receiving the Report of the Virginia 2020 Strategic Planning Task Force for the Department of Athletics

5979

Guidelines for Review of the Athletics Report

5980

Approval of the 2002 Board Meeting Dates

5981

Memorial Resolution for Mr. W. Wright Harrison

5982

Approval of Summary of Audit Findings

5982

Resolution on the Honor System

5983

Resolution Concerning the University Judiciary Committee

5985

Resolution Commending Charles Lee Brown

5987

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

5988

Actions Relating to Chairholders

5990

Resignations

5991

Retirement

5992

Appointments

5993

Re-appointments

5994

Elections of Professors Emeriti

5994

Election of Associate Professors Emeriti

5995

Election of Mr. Robert D. Sweeney as Senior Vice President for Development and Public Affairs

5995

Change in the Election of Ms. Lisa Woolfork

5996

Change in the Election of Mr. Z. Gregory Arone

5996

Change in the Election of Mr. Ming C. Lo

5996

Change in the Election of Mr. Edward M. Murphy

5996

Change in the Chair Election of Mr. Mark B. Williams

5997

Approval of Reporting Relationships and Supervisory Structure for Dual Employment Situation

5997

PAGE

The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Appointments

5999

Retirement

5999

Election of Professor Emeritus

5999

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS April 6-7, 2001
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, on Friday, April 6, at 8:35 a.m., in the Board Room of the Rotunda; John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, presided. Thomas J. Bliley, Jr., Charles M. Caravati, Jr., M.D., William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Charles L. Glazer, William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Timothy B. Robertson, Terence P. Ross, Thomas A. Saunders, III, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, Joseph E. Wolfe, and Stephen S. Phelan, Jr., were present.

Also present was Ms. Sasha L. Wilson.

Present as well were John T. Casteen, Jr., Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Peter W. Low, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Robert D. Sweeney, William W. Harmon, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Gene D. Block, George E. Culbertson, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Rector introduced the Student Member-elect, Ms. Sasha L. Wilson of Charlottesville.

Mr. Rainey presented a resolution commending Mr. Phelan, whose term as Student Member ended at the conclusion of the meeting on April 7th. The resolution was approved.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION FOR STEPHEN STRATFORD PHELAN, JR.
------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Stephen Stratford Phelan, Jr., of Alabama matriculated in the College in 1993; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Phelan showed early promise as a student, as an athlete, and as a leader among his peers; and

WHEREAS, this promise was realized in every way as Mr. Phelan distinguished himself in the classroom, on the football field and in a wide variety of student organizations; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Phelan received the Grey-Carrington Award among other honors, and took his Bachelor's degree from the College in 1997; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Phelan matriculated in the School of Law in 1998 and was elected the Student Member of the Board of Visitors in 2000; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Phelan has performed his duties faithfully and with distinction;

RESOLVED, as Stephen Stratford Phelan, Jr., completes his term, the Board thanks him for his service and counsel and wishes him well as he completes his studies in the School of Law and begins theological studies.

ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION OF DEAN OF THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND VICE PRESIDENTASSIGNMENT OF PAVILION XUNIVERSITY JUDICIARY STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the three resolutions adopted by the Executive Committee at its meeting on March 22nd.

WHEREAS, the President with the Board's concurrence, restructured the governance of the Medical Center and clinical operations in 1999 by assigning those functions to the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and

WHEREAS, the President has thoroughly reviewed the options for structuring the academic governance of the Health System as it exists following the realignment of the Medical Center and clinical operations in 1999; and

WHEREAS, the President has concluded that the positions of the Vice President and Provost for Health Affairs and the Dean of the School of Medicine should be combined to form a new position to be entitled Dean of the School of Medicine/Vice President.

RESOLVED that the Board concurs with the President's recommendation and authorizes the President to proceed with implementation of the proposal, begin a search for the position of Dean of the School of Medicine /Vice President and make such other related organizational adjustments as may be necessary to complete the restructuring envisioned by this action.

RESOLVED that Pavilion X, East Lawn, be assigned to Dean Carl P. Zeithaml, for a period of five years, commencing in the summer of 2001. On application, the lease may be renewed at the end of this period for a second five years.

RESOLVED that the Standards of Conduct, revised by the University Judiciary Committee and shown as an Attachment, are approved.

At the Rector's request, Mrs. Holland reminded the Board of the forthcoming conference of the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia in Williamsburg on April 20th; the conference is organized for members of boards of visitors.

The President gave his customary report, focusing on the General Assembly Session recently concluded and the Commonwealth's budgetary problems. He noted the several academic searches underway and gave a summary of recent gifts to the University. Private giving to the University and its related foundations totaled $136.4 million for the Fiscal Year through January 31st.

On motion, the Minutes of the Board of Visitors meetings of January 19-20, 2001, were approved.

The meeting of the full Board recessed at 9:00 a.m.

The full Board reconvened in the Board Room of the Rotunda at 2:20 p.m. All Members noted above, with the addition of Thomas J. Farrell, II, were present.

The following motions enabling the Board to meet in Executive Session were approved:

That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the discussion and consideration of a proposed gift of real estate, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss and be advised by General Counsel on private gift commitments supporting University capital projects as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(4), (7), and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to be advised by General Counsel with respect to pending litigation and to consider his recommendation regarding delegation of authority, as provided for in Section 2.1344 (A)(7) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board went into Executive Session at 2:25 p.m., and resumed in Open Session at 4:00 p.m., after adopting the following resolution:

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WILLIAM PARSON VISITING PROFESSORSHIP IN TEACHING EXCELLENCE IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINEESTABLISHMENT OF THE MERRILL D. PETERSON PROFESSORSHIP IN THE SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURENAMING OF A NEW BUILDING IN THE ENGINEERING SCHOOL COMPLEX AS WILSDORF HALL
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

After a short recess, the Board reconvened at 4:10 p.m., in the Dome Room of the Rotunda and adopted the following resolutions:

WHEREAS, William Parson was Chair of the Department of Internal Medicine at the School of Medicine from 1949 to 1966; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Parson is renowned for his dedication to medical education, a career that has covered sixty years of teaching; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Dudley B. Anderson, a former student of Dr. Parson, organized an effort to raise money to honor Dr. Parson's commitment to teaching; and

WHEREAS, numerous friends, colleagues and former students, in addition to the Charles A. Dana Foundation and Dr. Parson's family, have contributed generously to the fund;

RESOLVED that the Board establishes the William Parson Visiting Professorship in Teaching Excellence, to be held in the Department of Internal Medicine in the School of Medicine, and thanks the many donors whose generosity has made this possible.

WHEREAS, Merrill D. Peterson, a native of Kansas, joined the faculty of the University in 1963 as Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professor of History and retired in 1987, having served also as Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences for four years; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Peterson is recognized for his preeminence as a Jefferson scholar, having published a number of works on Thomas Jefferson including The Jefferson Image in the American Mind, which won the Bancroft Prize in American History in 1961; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Bahman Batmanghelidj of McLean is both a friend of the University and a great admirer of Thomas Jefferson; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Batmanghelidj has made a generous gift to the University for a professorship in the Architecture School to honor Mr. Peterson's Jefferson scholarship as well as Thomas Jefferson's architectural genius;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors expresses its thanks to Mr. Batmanghelidj and establishes the Merrill D. Peterson Professorship in the School of Architecture. The Peterson Professor will serve for one term, with the possibility of renewal, and will be either a member of the Architecture School faculty or an invited distinguished professor.

WHEREAS, Heinz G.F.Wilsdorf and Doris Kuhlmann-Wilsdorf, natives of Germany who both took the Ph.D., from Goettingen University, joined the faculty of the School of Engineering in 1963; and

WHEREAS, Heinz Wilsdorf, a metallurgist, became, in due course, the first Chair of the Department of Materials Science and Doris Kuhlmann-Wilsdorf, a physicist, the University Professor of Applied Science; and

WHEREAS, Heinz Wilsdorf retired in 1991 and died in 2000, and Doris Kuhlmann-Wilsdorf continues to teach, both of them having had most distinguished careers; and

WHEREAS, Gregory H. Olsen, who took the Ph.D., from the School of Engineering in 1971, has made a generous gift to the University for the construction of a new building at the School of Engineering;

RESOLVED that the Board thanks Gregory H. Olsen for his generosity and designates the building to be constructed with his gift, Wilsdorf Hall in honor of the late Heinz G. F. Wilsdorf and his widow, Doris Kuhlmann-Wilsdorf, both of them distinguished former members of the faculty of the School of Engineering.

The Board recessed at 4:30 p.m., and resumed, in Executive Session, at 10:15 a.m., Saturday, April 7th, in the Board Room of the Rotunda. All Members were present.

The meeting resumed in Open Session at 11:45 a.m., with the adoption of the following resolution:

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR 2001-2002 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ACADEMIC DIVISION

Rents

Proposed Rents

Utilities

Properties

UtilitiesFurnished

2000-2001Per Month

AmountIncrease

PercentIncrease

2001-2002Per Month

Paid byOccupant

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom Apt. (7)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T

$484

$24

5.0%

$508

2 Bedroom Apt. (16)

WS,E,G,C,T

$587

$23

3.9%

$610

3 BR Houses (2)

WS,C,T

$653

$26

4.0%

$679

G,E

3 BR Houses (14)(R)

WS,C,T

$818

$42

5.1%

$860

G,E

3BR Townhouses (5)(R)

WS,C,T

$818

$42

5.1%

$860

G,E

121 Mimosa (Farmhouse)

Apt. 1, 1 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C,T

$451

$25

5.5%

$476

Apt. 2, 3 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C,T

$520

$41

7.9%

$561

Apt. 3, 1 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C,T

$451

$25

5.5%

$476

Apt. 4, 2 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C,T

$482

$54

11.2%

$536

Sundry

Vyssotsky Cottage(3BR)(R)

WS,T

$670

$36

5.4%

$706

E,G

Upper Alden (3BR)

WS,T,G,A/C

$681

$57

8.4%

$738

Lower Alden (2BR)

WS,T,G,V,A/C

$616

$50

8.1%

$666

McGuffey Cottage (Eff)

WS,E,T,V,A/C

$401

$16

4.0%

$417

Upper Mews (1BR)(F)

WS,E,HP,C,T,A/C

$563

$28

5.0%

$591

Lower Mews (1BR)(F)

WS,E,HP,C,T,A/C

$478

$23

4.8%

$501

Brown Coll. Range (2BR)

WS,C,HP,T,V,A/C

$577

$23

4.0%

$600

Brown College Apt. (2BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$515

$21

4.1%

$536

Hereford Fac. Apts. (2BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$619

$25

4.0%

$644

Hereford Principal (3BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$780

$31

4.0%

$811

102 Cresap Fac. Apt.(F)

WS,E,HVAC,G,T,V

$582

$23

4.0%

$605

ACADEMIC DIVISION

Rents

Proposed Rents

Utilities

Properties

UtilitiesFurnished

2000-2001Per Month

AmountIncrease

PercentIncrease

2001-2002Per Month

Paid byOccupant

Birdwood Properties

Cottage (1BR) (R)

WS,C,T

$455

$18

4.0%

$473

E

Garage (2BR)

WS,C,T

$645

$26

4.0%

$671

E,G

Cash House (3BR)

WS,C,T

$674

$27

4.0%

$701

E,G

Birdwood House (4BR)

WS,C,T

$955

$38

4.0%

$993

E,G

Faulkner Properties

Hedge House (2BR)(F,R)

WS,C,T,A/C

$635

$25

3.9%

$660

E,G

Orchard House (5RMS) (F)

WS,E,G,C,T,A/C

$296

$12

4.0%

$308

Carriage House (4BR)

WS,C,T

$577

$23

4.0%

$600

E,G

118 Oakhurst,Upper (2BR)

WS,G,C

$551

$22

4.0%

$573

E,T

118 Oakhurst,Lower (2BR)

WS,G,C

$557

$22

4.0%

$579

E,T

409 Valley Road, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,AC

$624

$130

20.8%

$754

T

411 Valley Road, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,AC

$624

$194

31.1%

$818

T

503 Valley Road, (1BR)

C

$408

$16

3.9%

$424

WS,E,G,T

Faculty Apartments

Apt. 11, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$522

$23

4.4%

$545

Apt. 12, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$522

$23

4.4%

$545

Apt. 14, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$522

$23

4.4%

$545

Apt. 15, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$522

$23

4.4%

$545

Apt. 21 (Eff)

WS,E,G,C,T

$355

$16

4.5%

$371

Apt. 22 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$406

$22

5.4%

$428

Apt. 23 (Eff)

WS,E,G,C,T

$355

$16

4.5%

$371

Apt. 24, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$406

$22

5.4%

$428

Apt. 25, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$428

$18

4.2%

$446

Apt. 26, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$428

$18

4.2%

$446

Apt. 27, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$428

$18

4.2%

$446

Apt. 28, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$428

$18

4.2%

$446

Apt. 31, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$428

$18

4.2%

$446

Apt. 32, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$428

$18

4.2%

$446

Apt. 33, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$462

$22

4.8%

$484

Apt. 34, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$462

$22

4.8%

$484

Apt. 35, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$462

$22

4.8%

$484

Apt. 36, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$462

$22

4.8%

$484

ACADEMIC DIVISION

Rents

Proposed Rents

Utilities

Properties

UtilitiesFurnished

2000-2001Per Month

AmountIncrease

PercentIncrease

2001-2002Per Month

Paid byOccupant

E & G Properties

Montebello, (3 BR/Garage)

WS,E,O,A/C

$645

$18

2.8%

$663

C,T

Big Morea (4 BR) (F)

WS,E,O,A/C,T

$904

$26

2.9%

$930

C

Little Morea (2BR) (F)

WS,E,O,A/C,T

$695

$20

2.9%

$715

C

Sunnyside (4BR)

WS,E,O,A/C

$1,438

$42

2.9%

$1,480

C

Brown College House(4 BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$836

$24

2.9%

$860

C

Buckingham Palace

WS,E,HP,A/C,T

$309

$8

2.6%

$317

C

Pavilion I (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$763

$22

2.9%

$785

Pavilion II (5BR)

WS,HP,T,V

$565

$16

2.8%

$581

E

Pavilion III (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$763

$22

2.9%

$785

Pavilion IV (5BR)

WS,HP,T,V

$565

$16

2.8%

$581

E

Pavilion V (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$763

$22

2.9%

$785

Pavilion VI (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$763

$22

2.9%

$785

Pavilion VIII Lower (1BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$258

$7

2.7%

$265

Pavilion VIII Upper (3BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$491

$13

2.7%

$504

Pavilion IX (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$763

$22

2.9%

$785

Pavilion X (5BR)

WS,HP,T,V

$565

$16

2.8%

$581

E

Blandy Farm

Curator's House

WS

$0

$0

0.0%

$0

E,O

Green Farm House

WS

$65

$0

0.0%

$65

E,O

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE

Houses (6)

WS

$463

$16

3.5%

$479

G,E

2 Bedroom Apt (2)

WS,G

$458

$16

3.5%

$474

E

1 Bedroom Apt (1)

WS,G

$430

$15

3.5%

$445

E

After a recess of fifteen minutes, the Board continued its meeting and adopted the following resolutions:

RESOLVED that the faculty and staff housing rates be approved as indicated, effective July 1, 2001. The Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to increase the rates to market level when a property is vacated.

"R" designates renovated properties; "F" designates furnished properties. Utility abbreviations: WS (water, sewer), E (electric), G (gas), O (oil), HP (heating plant), HVAC (heating, venting, and air conditioning system, A/C (window air conditioning), C (cable TV), V (voice and data) and T (trash removal).

QUALIFIED DEFINED CONTRIBUTION RETIREMENT PLAN FOR COMMUNITY MEDICINE, LLC PHYSICIANS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia wishes to jointly employ physicians with Community Medicine, a wholly-owned corporate subsidiary of the University; and

WHEREAS, the University wishes the physicians so employed to enjoy retirement benefits that are substantially similar to those offered to physicians who are employed by the Health Services Foundation; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center has the authority to establish a retirement plan for certain of its employees under Virginia Code Section 51.1-126.3 of the Code of Virginia; and

WHEREAS, Section 51.1-126.3 requires that the Board of Visitors establish the effective date and contribution rate for such a plan;

WHEREAS, it is anticipated that in the future Community Medicine will fully fund the costs of a retirement plan for its employees.

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves a qualified defined contribution retirement plan for Community Medicine physicians, effective July 1, 2001; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that contributions to the plan shall equal the greater of $12,500 or 11.9 percent of salary annually; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, has the authority to execute any documents relating to the establishment of this plan, as well as any amendments that must be made to existing plans in order to accommodate the intentions set forth in this resolution.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR MONROE HALL ADDITION
--------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Einhorn Yaffee Prescott of Alexandria, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Monroe Hall Addition project.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR A TERM CONTRACT FOR ADA PROJECTS
--------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Quinn Evans Architects of Washington, D.C., is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for projects initiated under the term contract for ADA projects.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE GARRETT HALL RENOVATION PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that The Glave Firm of Richmond, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Garrett Hall Renovation project.

APPROVAL OF ENGINEER SELECTION FOR A TERM CONTRACT FOR UTILITY PROJECTS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Dewberry & Davis of Richmond, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for projects initiated under the term contract for utility projects.

APPROVAL OF ENGINEER SELECTION FOR A TERM CONTRACT FOR MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL, AND PLUMBING PROJECTS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Versar Greenwood, Inc., of Williamsburg, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for projects initiated under a term contract for mechanical, electrical, and plumbing projects.

APPROVAL TO ESTABLISH THE M.A. DEGREE IN DIGITAL HUMANITIES IN THE MEDIA STUDIES PROGRAM IN THE COLLEGE AND GRADUATE SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that, subject to approval by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, the Master of Arts Degree (M.A.) in Digital Humanities be established in the Media Studies Program in the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.

ELECTION OF A MILLER CENTER COUNCIL MEMBER
------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Mr. Bob Woodward be elected to the Council of the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs, for a term of five years.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual2000-01

Amount of Change

Percent of Change

Proposed 2000-01

Actual 2000-01

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 2000-01

REGULAR SESSION:

Undergraduate School:

Tuition and Required E&G Fees

$3,144

$0

0.0%

$3,144

$16,393

$783

4.8%

$17,176

Auxiliary Fees

$977

$76

7.8%

$1,053

$977

$76

7.8%

$1,053

Total Tuition & Required Fees

$4,121

$76

1.8%

$4,197

$17,370

$859

4.9%

$18,229

Graduate School:

Tuition and Required E&G Fees

$4,007

$79

2.0%

$4,086

$16,393

$783

4.8%

$17,176

Auxiliary Fees

$977

$76

7.8%

$1,053

$977

$76

7.8%

$1,053

Total Tuition & Required Fees

$4,984

$155

3.1%

$5,139

$17,370

$859

4.9%

$18,229

Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration (Tuition & Required Fees):

Students Entering Fall 2001

n/a

n/a

n/a

$22,189

n/a

n/a

n/a

$27,189

Students Entering Fall 2000

$19,114

$1,575

8.2%

$20,689

$24,114

$1,575

6.5%

$25,689

School of Law (Tuition & Required Fees):

Students Entering Fall 2001

n/a

n/a

n/a

$18,017

n/a

n/a

n/a

$25,243

Students Entering Fall 2000

$15,730

$1,087

6.9%

$16,817

$23,611

$1,632

6.9%

$25,243

Students Entering Fall 1999

$15,730

$1,087

6.9%

$16,817

$23,611

$1,632

6.9%

$25,243

School of Medicine (Tuition & Required Fees):

Students Entering Fall 2001

n/a

n/a

n/a

$15,305

n/a

n/a

n/a

$27,805

Students Entering Fall 2000

$13,541

$764

5.6%

$14,305

$26,221

$1,584

6.0%

$27,805

Students Entering Fall 1999

$13,541

$764

5.6%

$14,305

$26,221

$1,584

6.0%

$27,805

Students Entering Fall 1998

$12,541

$764

6.1%

$13,305

$26,221

$1,584

6.0%

$27,805

McIntire School of Commerce Executive Master of Science Programs (MIS and Accounting)

Annual Tuition & Fees - MIS

$27,950

$850

3.0%

$28,800

$32,700

$1,100

3.4%

$33,800

Annual Tuition & Fees -Accounting

n/a

n/a

n/a

$24,800

n/a

n/a

n/a

$29,800

(Price includes tuition, fees, room, board, technology costs, computer lease, books, local transportation and miscellaneous expenses. $10,000 of the MIS charges are fees and $6,000 of the Accounting charges are fees.)

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual2000-01

Amount of Change

Percent of Change

Proposed 2000-01

Actual 2000-01

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 2000-01

Other Charges:

Application Fee — Undergraduate

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

Application Fee — Graduate

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

Application Fee — Law

$65

$0

0.0%

$65

$65

$0

0.0%

$65

Application Fee — Darden

$140

$0

0.0%

$140

$140

$0

0.0%

$140

Application Fee — Medicine

$60

$0

0.0%

$60

$60

$0

0.0%

$60

Activity Fee — All Full-time Students

$39

$0

0.0%

$39

$39

$0

0.0%

$39

Activity Fee — All Part-time Students

$12

$0

0.0%

$12

$12

$0

0.0%

$12

Activity Fee — Arts & Sciences

$4

$0

0.0%

$4

$4

$0

0.0%

$4

Activity Fee — Architecture

$46

$0

0.0%

$46

$46

$0

0.0%

$46

Activity Fee — Commerce

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Activity Fee — Darden

$55

$0

0.0%

$55

$55

$0

0.0%

$55

Activity Fee — Education

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Activity Fee — Engineering

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Activity Fee — Grad. Arts & Sciences

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Activity Fee — Law School

$34

$0

0.0%

$34

$34

$0

0.0%

$34

Activity Fee — Medicine

$106

$0

0.0%

$106

$106

$0

0.0%

$106

Activity Fee — Nursing

$50

$5

10.0%

$55

$50

$51

0.0%

$55

Residential College Fee — Hereford

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

Residential College Fee — Brown

$120

$0

0.0%

$120

$120

$0

0.0%

$120

Residential College Fee — International

n/a

n/a

n/a

$120

n/a

n/a

n/a

$120

Residential College Fee — Mosaic

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

Residential College Fee — French

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

Residential College Fee — Spanish

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

School of Continuing and Professional Studies (SCPS):

Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies (BIS) Per Semester

1-3 hour

$635

$0

0.0%

$635

$2,697

$149

5.5%

$2,846

4-8 hour

$1,287

$0

0.0%

$1,287

$5,456

$236

4.3%

$5,692

9 or more hours

$1,916

$0

0.0%

$1,916

$8,148

$391

4.8%

$8,539

Non-Degree Programs Per Hour

Undergraduate

$113

$0

0.0%

$113

$249

$12

4.8%

$261

Graduate

$144

$3

2.1%

$147

$249

$12

4.8%

$261

K-12 Educators

$133

$0

0.0%

$133

$227

$11

4.8%

$238

Professional Programs Per Hour

Northern Virginia

$160

$3

1.9%

$163

$258

$12

4.7%

$270

All Other Centers

$154

$3

1.9%

$157

$252

$12

4.8%

$264

Special Students Registered through SCPS

in On-Grounds Courses Per Hour

$211

$0

0.0%

$211

$901

$43

4.8%

$944

Graduate Degree Programs Per Hour

Northern Virginia

$205

$4

2.0%

$209

$317

$15

4.7%

$332

All Other Centers

$200

$4

2.0%

$204

$311

$15

4.8%

$326

Graduate Televised Engineering Per Hour

Northern Virginia

$267

$5

1.9%

$272

$500

$24

4.8%

$524

All Other Centers

$262

$5

1.9%

$267

$492

$24

4.9%

$516

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual2000-01

Amount of Change

Percent of Change

Proposed 2000-01

Actual 2000-01

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 2000-01

Application Fee

Certificate and Special Programs

$25

$0

0.0%

$25

$25

$0

0.0%

$25

Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

No. Va. Center Facilities Fee Per Hour

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Technology Fee

$20

$0

0.0%

$20

$20

$0

0.0%

$20

Other Miscellaneous Fees as established to recover expenses such as laboratory, materials, etc., on a basis of estimated cost.

2002 Summer Session and Mt. Lake Biological Station:

Undergraduate Per Semester Hour

$109

$0

0.0%

$109

$571

$27

4.7%

$598

Graduate Per Semester Hour

$109

$2

1.8%

$111

$571

$27

4.7%

$598

Thesis/Dissertation Research

$455

$9

2.0%

$464

$455

$9

2.0%

$464

Appellate Judges Program

$1,248

$25

2.0%

$1,273

$1,285

$62

4.8%

$1,347

Non-Resident Fee

$66

$2

3.0%

$68

$66

$2

3.0%

$68

Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

Mt. Lake Laboratory Use Fee

$79

$3

3.8%

$82

$79

$3

3.8%

$82

Mt. Lake Non-UVa Researcher (per week):

Senior Investigators

$230

$8

3.5%

$238

$230

$8

3.5%

$238

Co-Investigators

$60

$2

3.3%

$62

$60

$2

3.3%

$62

Graduate Students

$60

$2

3.3%

$62

$60

$2

3.3%

$62

2002 New Student Orientation:

Orientation Fee

$180

$5

2.8%

$185

$180

$5

2.8%

$185

(The Orientation Fee will be rolled into the total tuition and fee bill for first year and transfer students in the first year of enrollment.)

OTHER:

Other contracted course and cooperative program tuition and required fee rates, including tuition for specialized graduate and professional credit courses, approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the Academic Division be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 2001:

APPROVAL OF ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES FOR 2001-2002 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Actual 2000-01

Amount of Inc./(Decr.)

Percent Inc./(Dcr.)

Proposed 2001-02

University Transit

$88

$4

4.5%

$92

Recreational Facilities

$67

$6

9.0%

$73

Auxiliary Debt Service

$187

$0

0.0%

$187

Athletics

$238

$50

21.0%

$288

Student Health

$284

$8

2.8%

$292

Newcomb Hall Operating

$98

$8

8.2%

$106

Student Programming

$26

$0

0.0%

$26

WTJU

$6

$0

0.0%

$6

Capital Renewal Fee

$24

$0

0.0%

$24

Arts Fee

$12

$0

0.0%

$12

Technology Fee

$45

$0

0.0%

$45

TOTAL FOR ALL STUDENTS

$1,075

$76

7.1%

$1,151

RESOLVED that the fee component of the tuition and required fees be established, effective July 1, 2001, in the amount of $1,151; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer may adjust the required fees if the 2000 Appropriations Act is amended to allow a fee for the Operations and Maintenance of Plant; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the fee component be allocated for the 2001-02 session as follows:

APPROVAL OF SPECIAL SESSION FEE RATE
------------------------------------

Actual 2000-01

Amount of Inc./(Decr.)

Percent Inc./(Dcr.)

Proposed 2001-02

University Transit

$17

$1

5.9%

$18

Recreational Facilities

$18

$1

5.6%

$19

Student Health, (Summer Session only)

$93

$2

2.2%

$95

Newcomb Hall Operating

$18

$2

11.1%

$20

Classroom Renewal Fee

$6

$0

0.0%

$6

Technology Fee

$5

$0

0.0%

$5

Arts Fee

$6

$0

0.0%

$6

SPECIAL SESSION TOTAL

$163

$6

3.7%

$169

RESOLVED that the special session fees for the Academic Division be increased as follows, effective beginning with the fall session of 2001:

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual2000-01

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 2000-01

Actual 2000-01

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 2000-01

Tuition and Required E&G Fees

Full-time Students (12 hrs or more per semester)

Session Rate

$1,930

$0

0.0%

$1,930

$8,424

$544

6.5%

$8,968

Auxiliary Fees

$1,400

$140

10.0%

$1,540

$1,400

$140

10.0%

$1,540

Total Tuition and Required Fees

$3,330

$140

4.2%

$3,470

$9,824

$684

7.0%

$10,508

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hoursat the tuition rates listed below:

Part-time Students (less than 12 hrs or more per semester)

per semester hr.

$77

$0

0.0%

$77

$346

$22

6.4%

$368

Off-Campus Instruction

Credit Courses per hr.

$77

$0

0.0%

$77

$242

$16

6.6%

$258

Non-Credit Courses per CEU

$34

$0

0.0%

$34

$108

$4

3.7%

$112

Other Fees:

Application Fee

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

Graduation Fee

$50

$0

0.0%

$50

$50

$0

0.0%

$50

A Registration Fee for part-time students will be $5 per semester hour.

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to The University of Virginia's College at Wise be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 2001:

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to approve reduced tuition rates for residents of Kentucky who live in counties that are within a 50-mile radius of The University of Virginia's College at Wise and who are enrolled at the College in accordance with Section 23-7.2:1.B of the Code of Virginia.

APPROVAL OF CONTRACT RATES FOR DINING SERVICES FOR 2001-2002 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ACADEMIC DIVISION

Actual 2000-2001

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 2001-2002

Dining Service Contract (1,2)

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$2,630

$80

3.0%

$2,710

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

2,630

80

3.0%

2,710

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

2,630

80

3.0%

2,710

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $780 Plus Dollars

2,630

80

3.0%

2,710

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,150

70

6.0%

2,280 \*

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,530

50

3.3%

1,580

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,330

40

3.0%

1,370

50 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,010

30

3.0%

1,040

Residential Colleges/Language Houses (1,2,3)

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$2,740

$80

2.9%

$2,820

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

2,740

80

2.9%

2,820

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

2,740

80

2.9%

2,820

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $780 Plus Dollars

2,740

80

2.9%

2,820

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,260

70

5.8%

2,390 \*

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,640

50

3.0%

1,690

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,440

40

2.8%

1,480

3 Banquets per semester (lawn residents only)

60

0

0.0%

60

Athletics (1)

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$2,740

$80

2.9%

$2,820

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

2,740

80

2.9%

2,820

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

2,740

80

2.9%

2,820

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $780 Plus Dollars

2,740

80

2.9%

2,820

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,260

70

5.8%

2,390 \*

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,640

50

3.0%

1,690

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,440

40

2.8%

1,480

\* New rate includes a $60 adjustment for underpricing in prior years.

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE

19 Meal Plan

$2,228

$67

3.0%

$2,295

12 Meal Plan

$2,004

$60

3.0%\*

$2,064

(1) Plus Dollars are credited to a student's identification card and may be used in the same manner as cash at any board dining hall and/or retail operation.

(2) First-year students are required to purchase a 13, 15, or unlimited meal plan during their first semester. During their second semester they may switch to the ten-meal plan with $780 Plus Dollars.

(3) Residents of the Lawn, residential colleges and language houses with dining facilities are required to purchase a meal plan.

RESOLVED that the student contract rates for dining services be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 2001-2002 session:

APPROVAL OF A SHORT TERM CONSTRUCTION LOAN OF $13.0 MILLION FOR THE CARL SMITH CENTER/ SCOTT STADIUM EXPANSION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia's Athletic Department has a cash flow problem matching project expenses against receipt of private donations and other revenue for the expansion of the Carl Smith Center/Scott Stadium; and

WHEREAS, Athletic Department fundraising has resulted in a principal balance invested in a quasiendowment account in excess of $20 million; and

WHEREAS, a short-term loan to cover project expenses will permit the continued long-term investment of the quasi-endowment.

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby approves a short-term construction loan of up to $13.0 million to the Athletic Department for a five year term; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute all necessary documents to effect the loan.

APPROVAL TO EXTEND THE MATURITY TO FISCAL YEAR 2009 FOR THE 3.0 MILLION INTERNAL LOAN FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE STADIUM PROJECT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia's College at Wise began construction of a new stadium anticipating timely receipt of philanthropic donations; and

WHEREAS, the identified philanthropic donations are insufficient to satisfy the outstanding indebtedness in full by the original terms of the loan agreement; and

WHEREAS, the College has developed a coherent plan to repay this obligation given their known sources of income.

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby approves amending the terms of the existing loan to allow the College until Fiscal Year 2009 to pay off the entire principal balance and accrued interest; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that all other terms of the original agreement remain in effect.

APPROVAL OF ENDOWMENT SPENDING POLICY
-------------------------------------

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Spending Policy for the Endowment Fund shall be as follows:

Class A Shares: For fiscal year 2001-2002, the distribution will increase 4.0 percent. Thereafter distributions will be equal to 4.5 percent of a twelvequarter moving average of the market value of the Pooled Endowment Fund for the period ending on the previous December 31.

Class B Shares: For fiscal year 2001-2002, the distribution will increase 4.0 percent. For fiscal year 2002-2003, distributions will be equal to 5.75 percent of a twelve—quarter moving average of the market value of the Pooled Endowment Fund for the period ending on the previous December 31. For fiscal years after 20022003, the 5.75 percent rate will decrease by .25 percent each year until the rate reaches 4.5 percent, so long as the decrease does not cause the payout to fall below the level of the previous year. In such case, the payout level shall remain at the level of the previous year, and the .25 percent rate reduction shall resume the next year.

APPROVAL OF REVISED ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS FOR 2000-2006
--------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University's existing enrollment plan, approved by the Board of Visitors in May 1999, must be updated to reflect changes in the enrollment levels through 2006; and

WHEREAS, the revised enrollment projections for 2000-2006 were submitted to the State Council of Higher Education in Virginia in March 2001.

RESOLVED that, compared with the 1999 plan, the undergraduate student population projected for 2006 remains at 13,000; the graduate student population increases by 253; the first-professional student population will remain at 1,648; and on-Grounds Continuing and Professional Studies students decrease by 236, resulting in a total student enrollment target of 17 more on-Grounds students than was approved in 1999. The total enrollment in 2006 will be 19,318, or 1,408 more students than in 1989-90 and 972 more than 1998-99.

APPROVAL OF SIX-YEAR CAPITAL OUTLAY PLAN
----------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Six-Year Capital Outlay Plan for the Academic Division, Medical Center, and The University of Virginia's College at Wise for the 2002-2008 period is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to make necessary revisions to the Plan prior to its submission to the state, including the addition of $11.3 million to complete the renovation of New Cabell Hall, provided the revisions do not alter in any substantive way the overall capital program as approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Administration develop a contingency plan for the funding of critical capital outlay projects if state funds are not provided by the 2002 General Assembly.

RESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE VIRGINIA 2020 COMMISSION REPORTS
---------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, in May 1998, the Board of Visitors called for comprehensive planning for enhancement of the sciences, the arts, international programs, and public service, these plans to be developed in the context of the Board's continuing commitment to excellence in programs already recognized for excellence and to the development of sound resource bases for these undertakings; and

WHEREAS, this initiative became known as Virginia 2020: Agenda for the Third Century; and

WHEREAS, the commissions were charged with long-range planning for the four areas initially envisioned and also for other areas, including student life, athletics, and (in the context of the conclusion of the capital campaign) financial and management strategies appropriate to the ongoing enhancement of the University's programs and activities; and

WHEREAS, the relevant commission reports have been circulated and discussed widely, and conform to the Board's general intentions and ambitions for the University.

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors accepts the Virginia 2020 reports, charges the President with developing strategic plans to achieve these goals in consultation with the Board of Visitors, commends the faculty, staff, and alumni contributors to the Virginia 2020 planning program, and directs that plans for the possible future implementation of the Virginia 2020 program be developed, contingent upon the Board's express future approval, including efforts to identify and raise the resources necessary to achieve these goals.

RESOLUTION RECEIVING THE REPORT OF THE VIRGINIA 2020 STRATEGIC PLANNING TASK FORCE FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF ATHLETICS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(Mr. Greer voted against the resolution).

WHEREAS, as part of the Virginia 2020: Agenda for the Third Century initiative the President charged a group of faculty, athletics personnel, students and alumni (the Task Force) to review the key issues facing the Department of Athletics, and to recommend future directions for the University's Athletics programs; and

WHEREAS, the Task Force studied four areas: programs and facilities, academic and student life, compliance, and finances and fundraising; and

WHEREAS, the Task Force report makes recommendations for goals, budgetary requirements and funding sources, and a management and monitoring structure; and

WHEREAS, the Task Force has submitted its report and recommendations to the Board of Visitors, the President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.

RESOLVED that the Board receives the report of the Virginia 2020 Strategic Planning Task Force on the Department of Athletics and commends the members of the Task Force for their substantial efforts in reviewing the current issues facing the Department of Athletics and considering its future direction; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Finance Committee and the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee review the report of the Task Force, discuss it with the Virginia Student Aid Foundation, and report back to the Board at a subsequent meeting or retreat; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, the Athletic Director, and the Chair of the Virginia 2020 Strategic Planning Task Force on the Department of Athletics shall serve as staff to the Finance Committee and the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee to assist in their review of the Task Force report.

GUIDELINES FOR REVIEW OF THE ATHLETICS REPORT
---------------------------------------------

(Mr. Greer abstained from voting).

WHEREAS, the Student Affairs and Athletics and the Finance Committees of the Board of Visitors are charged with reviewing the report of the Virginia 2020 Commission on Athletics;

RESOLVED that the Board wishes to provide strategic guidelines to these committees along the following lines:

APPROVAL OF THE 2002 BOARD MEETING DATES
----------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Board meeting dates for 2002 are as follows:

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR MR. W. WRIGHT HARRISON
----------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, W. Wright Harrison of Albemarle County attended the School of Engineering; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Harrison began a distinguished career in banking in Charlottesville which ended in Norfolk where he was Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Virginia National Bank; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Harrison served his community and the Commonwealth in innumerable ways; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Harrison served the University as President of the Alumni Association, President of the Virginia Student Aid Foundation and, from 1968 to 1976 as a Member of the Board of Visitors; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Harrison died March 28, 2001, at Virginia Beach;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors notes with profound regret the passing of W. Wright Harrison, commends his years of devotion and service to the University of Virginia, and extends its deepest sympathy to his family.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period December 1, 2000, through February 28, 2001, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

RESOLUTION ON THE HONOR SYSTEM
------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors are responsible for "the government and management of the University" and invested with statutory authority to "regulate the government and discipline of the students" (Va. Code 2376); and

WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors have delegated to the University's Honor Committee, which is comprised of elected student representatives, the privilege and responsibility of administering and enforcing the Honor Code for the University of Virginia; and

WHEREAS, the Honor System has served the University well since 1842, and the Board of Visitors wishes to recognize with gratitude the exemplary dedication of the students comprising the Honor Committee over the years which has provided the necessary leadership in the service of Honor without reward or compensation; and

WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors therefore wish to expressly reaffirm the authority of the Honor Committee to administer and enforce the Honor Code at the University of Virginia; and

WHEREAS, as a result of the continuing support and attention of the Board of Visitors for the studentgoverned Honor System, additional funding was provided for the hiring of both an Honor Advisor and a full-time Special Administrative Assistant dedicated exclusively to assisting the Honor Committee; and

WHEREAS, the Honor Committee recently formed a special commission to thoroughly evaluate the Honor System, which Commission consisted of current and former Honor Committee members, University administrators, professors and a member of the Board of Visitors, and the Commission's recommendations have received and will continue to receive the thoughtful consideration of the Honor Committee, the student body and the Rector and Visitors and others in the ongoing improvement of the Honor System at the University of Virginia, for which the Board of Visitors also expresses its gratitude.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Rector and Visitors explicitly reaffirm authority of the Honor Committee to administer and enforce the Honor Code at the University of Virginia in accordance with the following prudent principles and practices:

RESOLVED FURTHER, the delegation aforesaid shall remain subject at all times to the authority of the Rector and Visitors, as well as to the continued administrative support and assistance of the University President and the legal advice and guidance of the General Counsel who shall continue to report to and advise the Rector and Visitors on the affairs of the Honor Committee.

RESOLUTION CONCERNING THE UNIVERSITY JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors are responsible for "the government and management of the University" and invested with statutory authority to "regulate the government and discipline of the students" (Va. Code 2376); and

WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors have promulgated certain Standards of Conduct applicable to the University student community, and such Standards are designed and intended to safeguard the educational process for the good of the greater University community; and

WHEREAS, the University Judiciary Committee, which is comprised of elected student representatives, is the University body responsible for administering and enforcing the Standards of Conduct promulgated by the Rector and Visitors and, over the years, has dutifully executed its responsibility without reward or compensation other than the distinction of public service and promoting the best interests of all who seek the benefits of education at the University; and

WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors desire hereby to expressly recognize with gratitude the exemplary dedication of the students of this University which overall have ably served with distinction, and reaffirm support for and authority of the University Judiciary Committee.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Rector and Visitors hereby reaffirm authority in the University's Judiciary Committee to investigate, adjudicate, and administer the Standards of Conduct in accordance with the following prudent principles and practices:

RESOLVED FURTHER, the foregoing is subject at all times to the continuing authority of the Rector and Visitors and the University President as established by law or policy of the University.

RESOLUTION COMMENDING CHARLES LEE BROWN
---------------------------------------

The Board ratified the following resolution, adopted previously by consent and presented at a dinner on March 15th honoring Mr. Charles L. Brown.

WHEREAS, Charles Lee Brown took a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Virginia in 1943; and

WHEREAS, after service in the United States Navy, Mr. Brown joined the American Telephone and Telegraph Company and was its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer when he retired in 1986; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Brown served on the Board of Visitors from 1986 to 1990; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Brown has served the University in many other ways: as a Trustee of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund, as the Chairman of the New York Campaign in the first Capital Campaign, as the Speaker at the Commencement Exercises in 1980, and as Vice Chairman of the Campaign Executive Committee in the Capital Campaign just completed, among a multitude of acts of service and devotion; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Brown and his wife, Ann Lee Saunders Brown, have given tirelessly of themselves to the University, not just in resources but as representatives of the best of the cherished University of Virginia traditions of integrity and leadership.

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors, on the occasion of the successful completion of the Capital Campaign, thanks Charles Lee Brown for his outstanding leadership in the Campaign and for all that he has done for the University of Virginia.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERSElections of ChairholdersRetirements of ChairholdersResignation of ChairholderRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTSAPPOINTMENTSRE-APPOINTMENTSELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITIELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSORS EMERITIELECTION OF MR. ROBERT D. SWEENEY AS SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT FOR DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC AFFAIRSCHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MS. LISA WOOLFORKCHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MR. Z. GREGORY ARONECHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MR. MING C. LOCHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MR. EDWARD M. MURPHYCHANGE IN THE CHAIR ELECTION OF MR. MARK B. WILLIAMSAPPROVAL OF REPORTING RELATIONSHIPS AND SUPERVISORY STRUCTURE FOR DUAL EMPLOYMENT SITUATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Associate Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that Mr. Robert D. Sweeney is elected as Senior Vice President for Development and Public Affairs, for five years, effective July 1, 2001.

RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Lisa Woolfork as Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective August 25, 2000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting on January 19, 2001, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the election of Mr. Z. Gregory Arone as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for four academic years, effective January 10, 2001, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting on January 19, 2001, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the election of Mr. Ming C. Lo as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for two academic years, effective October 11, 2000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting on January 19, 2001, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the election of Mr. Edward M. Murphy as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 25, 2000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting on January 19, 2001, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the chair election of Mr. Mark B. Williams as Ward K. Ensiminger Associate Professor of Geriatric Medicine, effective March 25, 2000, and continuing as Associate Professor of Radiology, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of October 6, 2000, be changed to read as follows:

WHEREAS, the Virginia Conflict of Interest Act permits the dual employment of immediate family members by public institutions of higher education that would otherwise be prohibited by the Act, subject to the following conditions:

WHEREAS, Albert M. Groh, II, and A. Michael Groh, III, who are father and son, are both employed by the Department of Athletics; and

WHEREAS, A. Michael Groh, III, is Assistant Coach for Receivers, Football Program, in the Department of Athletics, of which Albert M. Groh, II, is Head Football Coach.

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors finds it in the best interest of the University of Virginia and the Commonwealth to employ A. Michael Groh, III, and Albert M. Groh, II, in their respective positions as Assistant Coach for Receivers, Football Program, in the Department of Athletics, and as Head Football Coach, in the Department of Athletics respectively; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the reporting relationship and supervisory structure shall be as follows: (a) in A. Michael Groh, III's capacity as Assistant Coach for Receivers, Football Program, in the Department of Athletics, he reports directly to and shall be supervised by Daniel C. Rocco, Assistant Head Coach, Football Program, in the Department of Athletics, and not to the Head Football Coach, and all personnel decisions and performance evaluations of Mr. A. Michael Groh, III, must be reviewed and approved by the Senior Associate Director of Athletics or the Director of Athletics and as may be further required by University policy.

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISEAPPOINTMENTSRETIREMENTELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Professor Emeritus:

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 12:15 p.m.

Since the January 19-20 meeting of the Board of Visitors, committees of the Board of Directors of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company (UVIMCO) took the following actions which required neither the approval of the Board of Visitors or the approval of the full Board of Directors of UVIMCO. They are recorded here as a matter of record.

AGG:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: April 6-7, 2001 CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session — as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia — only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

ATTACHMENT UNIVERSITY JUDICIARY COMMITTEE STANDARDS OF CONDUCT REVISED DECEMBER 3, 2000
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1\. Physical or sexual assault of any person on University-owned or leased property, at any University sanctioned function, at the permanent or temporary local residence of a University student, faculty member, employee, or visitor, or in the city of Charlottesville or Albemarle County.2. Conduct which intentionally or recklessly threatens the health or safety of any person on University-owned or leased property, at a University sanctioned function, or at the permanent or temporary local residence of a University student, faculty member, or employee.3. Unauthorized entry into or occupation of University facilities which are locked, closed to student activities or otherwise restricted as to use.4. Intentional disruption or obstruction of teaching, research, administration, disciplinary procedures, other University activities, or activities authorized to take place on University property.5. Unlawfully blocking or impeding normal pedestrian or vehicular traffic on or adjacent to University property.6. Violation of University policies or regulations referenced in The Record, including policies concerning residence and the use of University facilities.7. Alteration, fabrication, or misuse of, or obtaining unauthorized access to University identification cards, other documents, or computer files or systems.8. Disorderly conduct on University-owned or leased property or at a University-sanctioned function. Disorderly conduct is defined to include but is not limited to acts that breach the peace, are lewd, indecent, or obscene, and that are not Constitutionally protected speech.9. Substantial damage to University-owned or leased property or to property of a University student, employee, faculty member, or visitor occurring on University-owned or leased property or at the permanent or temporary local residence of any student, faculty member or employee.10. Any violation of Federal, State, or local law, if such directly affects the University's pursuit of its proper educational purposes and only to the extent such violations are not covered by other Standards of Conduct and only where a specific provision of a statute or ordinance is charged in the complaint.11. Intentional, reckless, or negligent conduct which obstructs the operations of the Honor or Judiciary Committee, or conduct that violates their rules of confidentiality.12. Failure to comply with directions of University officials acting under provisions 1-11 set above. This shall include failure to give identity in situations concerning alleged violations of sections 1-11.