 TEI to HTML

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS October 3, 2002
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 4:45 p.m., Thursday, October 3, 2002, in the Chapel of All Faiths at The University of Virginia's College at Wise; John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, presided. Thomas J. Bliley, Jr., William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Thomas F. Farrell, II, Charles L. Glazer, William H. Goodwin, Jr., Mark J. Kington, Don R. Pippin, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Terence P. Ross, Thomas A. Saunders, III, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., and H. Timothy Lovelace, Jr., were present.

Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Steven H. Kaplan, Leonard W. Sandridge, and Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., as well as members of The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board and senior administrators of the College.

Special guests included Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth P. Asbury and members of their family.

The President proposed the establishment of a chair at the College in honor of Mr. Kenneth P. Asbury, one of the "three Wise men' who convinced President Darden in 1954 of the need to establish a public college in Southwest Virginia. The college was founded as Clinch Valley College, at first a two-year institution under the aegis of the University, then a four year baccalaureate institution and more recently The University of Virginia's College at Wise.

The chair, to be known as the Kenneth Asbury Professorship in History, is being established by the Kenneth Asbury Professorship in History Fund, which was created with a lead gift from the late Mrs. Lelia Maude Richmond and other donors.

On motion, the following resolution was adopted:

APPROVAL OF THE KENNETH ASBURY PROFESSORSHIP
--------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Kenneth Asbury was instrumental in the founding, in 1954, of The University of Virginia's College at Wise, then known as Clinch Valley College; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Asbury's unwavering and extraordinary commitment to the College, his work on the Advisory Board, and the subsequent College Board, has been instrumental in the College's continuing growth and achievements; and

WHEREAS, through generous gifts from Lelia Maude Richmond and others, funds were garnered to honor Mr. Asbury with a permanent endowed professorship; and

WHEREAS, the establishment of this endowed professorship will bring academic excellence to the College community;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the establishment of the Kenneth Asbury Professorship in History and thanks Mr. Asbury for his commitment and many years of generous service to The University of Virginia's College at Wise.

On further motion, the meeting was adjourned at 4:55 p.m.

AGG:lah