 TEI to HTML

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS July 13, 2002
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia recessed its Annual Retreat, briefly, to meet as the full Board to consider several proposed resolutions. This was done between 1:15 and 1:20 p.m., in Open Session, on Saturday, July 13, 2002, at Upper Brandon in Prince George County.

The Rector, Mr. Ackerly, presided over the business session. All Members of the Board were present: Mesdames Holland and Twohy, and Messrs. Bliley, Crutchfield, Farrell, Glazer, Goodwin, Greer, Kington, Pippin, Rainey, Ross, Saunders, Thompson, Vaughan and Lovelace.

Also present were the President, Mr. Casteen, as well as Messrs. Sandridge, Gilliam and Forch, and Mesdames Cronin and Bailes.

Mr. Sandridge, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, told the Board that all proposals for legislation must be sent to Richmond in September, which is before the next scheduled meeting of the full Board; it was for this reason that the proposed legislation was being submitted to the Board for approval as an adjunct to the Retreat.

The first of the resolutions was a proposed change to the relevant section of the Code of Virginia to create a provision that "deems" the Medical Center to be a licensed hospital; such a designation would give the Medical Center the privileges, immunities, benefits and rights afforded licensed hospitals under the law. Under the Code the Medical Center currently is exempt from state licensure and the proposed change would in no way affect this exemption.

On motion, the Board approved the following resolution.

APPROVAL OF UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER LEGISLATIVE PROPOSAL
----------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has reviewed a proposed legislative action to amend Section 23.77.3(A) of the Code of Virginia to provide that the Medical Center will be deemed to be a licensed hospital or a licensed health care provider in order for the Medical Center to receive the privileges, immunities, benefits and/or rights afforded licensed hospitals under Virginia law; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors concludes that the proposed changes are prudent and in the best interest of the University;

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to seek legislation accomplishing the above-described purpose.

The second legislative amendment seeks a definition of "hazing" from the General Assembly. At present, hazing is a criminal offense under the Code of Virginia, which requires that offenders be expelled from school. The law, however, makes no distinction among manifestations of hazing, which has raised questions about the proportionality of offenses and the mandatory punishment.

On motion, the Board approved the following resolution:

APPROVAL OF UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA LEGISLATIVE PROPOSAL TO AMEND THE STATE STATUTE ON HAZING:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has reviewed proposed legislation to amend Section 18.2-56 of the Code of Virginia, in order to provide a definition of the term "hazing," and to require that acts of hazing be punished in accordance with the University's policies and procedure; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors supports the University administration in seeking appropriate legislative amendment as aforesaid.

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized in consultation with the General Counsel to seek appropriate legislation accomplishing the above-described purposes.

Mr. Farrell, as Chair of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, offered a resolution approving the schematic and preliminary design for the South Addition to Campbell Hall; the resolution had been approved earlier by the Committee and approval by the full Board was required.

(See Minutes of the meetings of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, July 12th and 13th, 2002.)

On motion, the Board approved the following resolution:

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC AND PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE CAMPBELL HALL SOUTH ADDITION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the schematic and preliminary design, dated July 12, 2002, and prepared by SMBW Architects of Richmond, for the Campbell Hall South Addition Project is approved for further development and construction.

Finally, Mr. Sandridge suggested that the Board consider a resolution approved on July 12th by the Medical Center Operating Board. He and the Secretary opined that although Board of Visitors approval of this action might not be necessary, there was reason to feel that action by the full Board might not be superfluous.

(See Minutes of the meeting of the Medical Center Operating Board, July 12, 2002.)

On motion, the Board approved the following resolution:

AUTHORIZATION REGARDING ORGANIZATIONAL AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT FOR THE MEDICAL CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board is the governing body for the Medical Center; and

WHEREAS, the resolution of the Board of Visitors creating the Medical Center Operating Board includes organizational and financial management of the Medical Center among the Operating Board's duties; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board is aware of the dynamic nature of health care delivery and the increased financial and operating challenges facing academic medical centers throughout the country; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board further recognizes the importance of a strong, cooperative relationship between the Medical Center and the School of Medicine; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board believes that it is in the best interest of the Medical Center to provide Medical Center senior management with appropriate flexibility in order to meet successfully these significant challenges and to strengthen the Medical Center's relationship with the School of Medicine; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board has reviewed and endorsed the strategic direction of the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center and the Dean and Vice President of the School of Medicine relative to the organization chart and bylaws and the financial relationship between the Medical Center and the School of Medicine and the commitment to planning at the System level;

RESOLVED that the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center, in consultation with the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University and with the advice of the Dean and Vice President of the School of Medicine, is authorized to create an organizational structure for the delivery of care within the Medical Center and its facilities as the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer deems appropriate; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center, in consultation with the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University, is authorized to engage in joint planning efforts and financial sharing arrangements with the School of Medicine as the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer deems appropriate.

AGG:jb