 TEI to HTML

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS APRIL 5-6, 2002
------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Re-Election of the Secretary to the Board

6136

Resolution of Commendation for Sasha Lee Wilson

6137

Establishment of the David H. Ibbeken '71 Research Professorship in Law

6140

Naming of the Kenneth W. Thompson Pavilion at the Miller Center of Public Affairs

6141

Naming of the Scripps Library and Multimedia Archive at the Miller Center of Public Affairs

6141

Naming of the Davenport Field at the University of Virginia Baseball Stadium

6142

Approval of Increase in Faculty and Staff Housing Rates for 2002-03 for the Academic Division and the University of Virginia's College at Wise

6143

Conflict of Interest Exemption (DVTI, INC.)

6145

Conflict of Interest Exemption (AVIR, LLC)

6146

Conflict of Interest Exemption (YABKO, LLC)

6146

Approval to Change the Name of a Degree in the McIntire School of Commerce from the Master of Science in Management Information Systems to the Master of Science in the Management of Information Technology

6147

Approval of Permanent Easement for the Albemarle County Service Authority Across University of Virginia Property Located at the Health System's Fleet Operation Center on Route 250 West

6147

Approval to Remove the Building at 120 11th Street, S.W.

6148

Approval of Architect Selections for Term Contracts for Interior Renovation Projects

6148

PAGE

Approval of Permanent Easement for the City of Charlottesville Across University of Virginia Property Located Behind Carruthers Hall

6149

Approval of Schematic and Preliminary Design for the Emmet Street Parking Structure

6149

Approval of Schematic Design for the Materials Science Engineering and Nanotechnology Building

6149

Approval of Contract Rates for Dining Services for 2002-2003 for the Academic Division and the University of Virginia's College at Wise

6149

Approval of Increase in Tuition and Required Fees and Other Charges for the Academic Division

6151

Approval of Allocation of Required Fees for 2002-2003 for the Academic Division

6154

Approval of Special Session Fee Rate

6155

Approval of Increase in Tuition and Required Fees and Other Charges for the University of Virginia's College at Wise

6156

Approval of the Appointments to the University of Virginia's College at Wise Board

6157

Approval of URADCO Joint Venture With Insight Imaging, LLC

6157

Adoption of the Governor's Statement on Equal Employment Opportunity as University Policy

6158

Statement of Support for Approval of Increases in the Athletics Student Fee

6159

Approval of the Transfer of Funds to the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation for Costs Related to the Blue Ridge Hospital Property

6160

PAGE

Approval of Summary of Audit Findings

6162

Approval to Enter into a Partnership with Outpatient Imaging Affiliates for the Provision of Imaging Services

6162

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

6163

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Elections of Chairholders

6165

Change in Title of the Election of Dr. Anthony L. McCall

6166

Special Salary Action of Chairholder

6166

Retirements of Chairholders

6166

Change in the Title of the Retirement of Dr. Theodore E. Keats

6167

Promotion

6167

Special Salary Actions

6167

Resignations

6169

Retirements

6169

Change in the Title of the Retirement of Dr. Theodore E. Keats

6170

Appointments

6171

Re-Appointments

6171

Election of Dr. Arthur Garson, Jr., as Dean of the School of Medicine and Vice President

6171

Election of Professors Emeriti

6171

Change in the Emeritus Title of Dr. Theodore E. Keats

6172

Election of Associate Professor Emeritus

6172

Deaths

6173

Election

6173

The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Action Relating to Chairholder

Special Salary Action of Chairholder

6173

Special Salary Actions

6174

Appointments

6174

Retirements

6175

Election of Professors Emeriti

6175

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL FO THE BOARD OF VISITORS April 5-6, 2002
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 8:30 a.m., Friday, April 5, 2002, in the Board Room of the Rotunda; John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, presided. Thomas J. Bliley, Jr., Charles M. Caravati, Jr., M.D., William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Thomas F. Farrell, II, Charles L. Glazer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Timothy B. Robertson, Terence P. Ross, Thomas A. Saunders, III, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, Joseph E. Wolfe, and Ms. Sasha Lee Wilson were present.

Herbert Timothy Lovelace, Jr., Student Member-elect, also was present.

Present as well were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Robert D. Sweeney, Ms. Yoke San L. Reynolds, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, R. Ariel Gomez, M.D., R. Edward Howell, William W. Harmon, Steven H. Kaplan, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Rector, after opening the meeting, called on the President — as prescribed in the Manual of the Board of Visitors — to make a nomination for Secretary to the Board, the Secretary's current four year term having expired. The President nominated Mr. Gilliam for re-election to another four year term. The President's motion was seconded and Mr. Gilliam was re-elected.

RE-ELECTION OF THE SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
-----------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Mr. Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., be re-elected as Secretary to the Board of Visitors, for a term of four years, effective March 1, 2002.

The Rector asked the Secretary to read a resolution commending Ms. Sasha L. Wilson, the current Student Member, whose term is to expire at the end of the meeting. The following resolution was moved, seconded and adopted by the Board.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION FOR SASHA LEE WILSON
-----------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Sasha Lee Wilson, a resident of Albemarle County, was elected the Student Member of the Board of Visitors in 2001 and took office in April of that year; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Wilson, a leader among her peers, has distinguished herself in the classroom and on the playing field and will take a joint B.A./M.T. in May; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Wilson has distinguished herself as well as the Student Member; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Wilson's term on the Board of Visitors will end at the close of the Board meeting on April 6th;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors thanks Sasha Lee Wilson for her service and devotion to the Board and to the University, congratulates her on her forthcoming marriage in May, and wishes her well as she embarks on her teaching career.

The Rector next entertained a resolution to add an item to the Docket, as required in Section 2.37 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors. The item, the approval of a memorial plaque, is to be considered by the Buildings and Grounds Committee. (Consideration of the resolution permitted by this resolution was withdrawn at the request of the Chair of the Buildings and Grounds Committee — see the Minutes of the meeting of the Buildings and Grounds Committee held on April 5, 2002.)

The Rector introduced Mr. Herbert Timothy Lovelace, Jr., of Roanoke, the Student Member-elect, whose term began at the conclusion of the Board meeting.

The President then gave his customary report. Much of it was given over to an account of the State's budgetary problems and their affect on the University. The President reported, too, on the 2020 initiatives and how they are being affected by the budgetary shortfalls, even though the 2020 initiatives assume "mixed funding," which is to say a mixture of public and private support.

Mr. Ross suggested that the Board have periodic, regularly scheduled, discussions of the 2020 initiatives.

Finally, the President announced a $52.6m bequest, the second largest gift ever made to the University. The bequest was made by the late Ward Buchanan, Law '14, who died in 1942. It comes from a trust that was set up to benefit the University after the last of a list of heirs died. The bequest will create an unrestricted endowment fund for the Medical Center and initially will produce $2.5million a year, though the amount is expected to increase as the endowment's assets increase.

The Board recessed at 9:10 a.m. for Committee meetings.

The Board resumed in Open Session at 1:30 p.m., meeting as the full Board. All Members present in the morning were present with the addition of Mr. Goodwin and Mr. Robertson.

After adopting the following motions, the Board went into Executive Session at 1:35 p.m.

That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to be advised by and discuss with General Counsel both pending and probable litigation involving the University, student disciplinary proceedings and matters, and to seek legal counsel with respect to policies on University-Related Foundations; as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1), (2), and (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss the investment of funds in the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation for costs related to the Blue Ridge Hospital property, where discussion in an open session could adversely affect the financial interest and the negotiating strategy of the University, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (3) and (6) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss preparations and plans to protect public safety as it relates to terrorist activity, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (20) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss the investing and distribution of Gift Endowment, and to seek advice of General Counsel, where if made public initially, the financial interest of the University would be adversely affected, as provided for in Section 2.2-3722 (A) (6), (7) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss and assess, with legal counsel as may be needed, the roll and performance of specific University personnel in disciplinary proceedings involving identifiable University students, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 A (1) (2), (4), and (7) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board resumed in Open Session at 3:00 p.m., after adopting a resolution certifying that the Executive Session had been conducted according to the exemptions provided in the Virginia Freedom of Information Act.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DAVID H. IBBEKEN '71 RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN LAWNAMING OF THE KENNETH W. THOMPSON PAVILION AT THE MILLER CENTER OF PUBLIC AFFAIRSNAMING OF THE SCRIPPS LIBRARY AND MULTIMEDIA ARCHIVE AT THE MILLER CENTER OF PUBLIC AFFAIRSNAMING OF THE DAVENPORT FIELD AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA BASEBALL STADIUM
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board resumed its meeting as the full Board at 4:00 p.m. in the Dome Room of the Rotunda; all Members present earlier in the afternoon were present.

The Board adopted the following resolutions:

WHEREAS, David H. Ibbeken, a native of New Jersey, took an A.B. from Princeton University in 1963 and a J.D. from the University of Virginia in 1971; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Ibbeken, after eight years of private practice, returned to the School of Law in 1979 as Executive Director of the Law School Foundation and Alumni Association, and as a member of the General Faculty of the School of Law; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Ibbeken's tireless efforts at raising funds for the Law School have met with great success; and

WHEREAS, a large number of donors, most of them Law School classmates of Mr. Ibbeken, have contributed to the establishment of a chair in Mr. Ibbeken's honor;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the David H. Ibbeken '71 Professorship in Law, to be held in the School of Law, thanks the donors for their generosity, and takes note of the esteem in which Mr. Ibbeken is held by his classmates and friends.

WHEREAS, Kenneth W. Thompson was Director of the White Burkett Miller Center from 1978 to 1998, the second person to hold that position; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Thompson's leadership and vision guided the Miller Center to its present national stature; and

WHEREAS, the new wing on the east side of Faulkner House, the central portion of the Miller Center complex, when completed will complement the Newman Pavilion on the west side; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Thompson continues to support the work of the Miller Center as an active member of the faculty and as a teacher and lecturer;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors names the new wing on the east side of Faulkner House the Kenneth W. Thompson Pavilion at the Miller Center of Public Affairs and in so doing recognizes, with gratitude, Mr. Thompson's years of distinguished service to the University.

WHEREAS, the new east wing of Faulkner House, the central building of the Miller Center, will house the Center's library and multimedia archive; and

WHEREAS, the library will contain the Miller Center's extensive and valuable collections on the American presidency; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Betty Scripps Harvey, a generous friend and supporter of the University and of the Miller Center, and her husband Jeremy Grig Harvey, have made a significant gift from the Scripps Foundation to the Miller Center for the construction of the new east wing of Faulkner House;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors names the library and multimedia archive in the new east wing of Faulkner House, the Scripps Library and Multimedia Archive, and expresses its profound gratitude to Mr. and Mrs. Harvey for their continuing generosity to the University.

WHEREAS, Ted Davenport, who was a member of the baseball team as a student, was head baseball coach from 1959 to 1961, as well as Executive Director and Secretary/Treasurer of the Virginia Student Aid Foundation from 1958 until 1988; and

WHEREAS, Ted Davenport was a devoted supporter of baseball at the University for most of his life and a moving force behind the efforts to renovate the baseball park; and

WHEREAS, Ted Davenport died on November 26, 2001; and

WHEREAS, the renovations Ted Davenport envisioned are well underway;

RESOLVED that the field of the renovated baseball stadium be named Davenport Field at the University of Virginia Baseball Stadium, in memory of Thomas Edward Davenport.

On motion, the Board adjourned at 4:25 p.m.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR 2002-03 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ACADEMIC DIVISION

Rents

Proposed Rents

Properties

Utilities Furnished

2001-2002 Per Month

Amount Increase

Percent Increase

2002-2003 Per Month

Utilities Paid By Occupant

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom Apt. (7)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T

$508

$24

4.72%

$532

2 Bedroom Apt. (16)

WS,E,G,C,T

$610

$38

6.23%

$648

3 Bedroom Houses (1)

WS,C,T

$679

$45

6.63%

$724

G,E

3 Bedroom Houses (15)(R)

WS,C,T

$860

$57

6.63%

$917

G,E

3BR Townhouses (5)

WS,C,T

$860

$57

6.63%

$917

G,E

121 Mimosa (Farmhouse)

Apt. 1, 1 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C,T

$476

$22

4.62%

$498

Apt. 2, 3 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C,T

$561

$37

6.60%

$598

Apt. 3, 1 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C,T

$476

$22

4.62%

$498

Apt. 4, 2 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C,T

$536

$25

4.66%

$561

Sundry

Vyssotsky Cottage(3BR)(R)

WS,T

$706

$33

4.67%

$739

E,G

Upper Alden (3BR)

WS,T,G,A/C

$738

$49

6.64%

$787

Lower Alden (2BR)

WS,T,G,V,A/C

$666

$44

6.61%

$710

McGuffey Cottage (Eff)

WS,E,T,V,A/C

$417

$28

6.71%

$445

Upper Mews (1BR)(F)

WS,E,HP,C,T,A/C

$591

$39

6.60%

$630

Lower Mews (1BR)(F)

WS,E,HP,C,T,A/C

$501

$33

6.59%

$534

Brown College Range (2BR)

WS,C,HP,T,V,A/C

$600

$40

6.67%

$640

Brown College Apt.(2BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$536

$36

6.72%

$572

Hereford Fac. Apts.(2BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$644

$43

6.68%

$687

Hereford Principal (3BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$811

$54

6.66%

$865

102 Cresap Fac. Apt.(F)

WS,E,HVAC,G,T,V

$605

$40

6.61%

$645

Monroe Lane (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,A/C

$615

Monroe Lane (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,A/C

$700

Birdwood Properties

Cottage (1BR) (R)

WS,C,T

$473

$22

4.65%

$495

E

Garage (2BR)

WS,C,T

$671

$31

4.62%

$702

E,G

Cash House (3BR)

WS,C,T

$701

$47

6.70%

$748

E,G

Birdwood House (4BR)

WS,C,T

$993

$66

6.65%

$1,059

E,G

Rents

Proposed Rents

Properties

Utilities Furnished

2001-2002 Per Month

Amount Increase

Percent Increase

2002-2003 Per Month

Utilities Paid By Occupant

Faulkner Properties

Hedge House (2BR)(F)

WS,C,T,A/C

$660

$31

4.70%

$691

E,G

Orchard House (5RMS)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T,A/C

$308

$14

4.55%

$322

Carriage House (4BR)

WS,C,T

$600

$40

6.67%

$640

E,G

118 Oakhurst,Upper (2BR)

WS,G,C

$573

$33

5.76%

$606

E,T

118 Oakhurst,Lower (2BR)

WS,G,C

$579

$27

4.66%

$606

E,T

409 Valley Road, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,AC

$754

$35

4.64%

$789

T

411 Valley Road, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,AC

$818

$38

4.65%

$856

T

503 Valley Road, (1BR)

C

$455

$21

4.62%

$476

WS,E,G,T

Faculty Apartments

Apt. 11, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$545

$25

4.59%

$570

Apt. 12, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$545

$25

4.59%

$570

Apt. 14, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$545

$25

4.59%

$570

Apt. 15, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$545

$25

4.59%

$570

Apt. 21 (Eff)

WS,E,G,C,T

$371

$17

4.58%

$388

Apt. 22 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$428

$20

4.67%

$448

Apt. 23 (Eff)

WS,E,G,C,T

$371

$17

4.58%

$388

Apt. 24, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$428

$20

4.67%

$448

Apt. 25, (1BR) (R)

WS,E,G,C,T

$446

$21

4.71%

$467

Apt. 26, (1BR) (R)

WS,E,G,C,T

$446

$21

4.71%

$467

Apt. 27, (1BR) (R)

WS,E,G,C,T

$446

$21

4.71%

$467

Apt. 28, (1BR) (R)

WS,E,G,C,T

$446

$21

4.71%

$467

Apt. 31, (1BR) (R)

WS,E,G,C,T

$446

$21

4.71%

$467

Apt. 32, (1BR) (R)

WS,E,G,C,T

$446

$21

4.71%

$467

Apt. 33, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$484

$23

4.75%

$507

Apt. 34, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$484

$23

4.75%

$507

Apt. 35, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$484

$23

4.75%

$507

Apt. 36, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$484

$23

4.75%

$507

E & G Properties

Montebello,(3 BR/Garage)

WS,E,O,A/C

$663

$20

3.02%

$683

C, T

Big Morea (4 BR) (F)

WS,E,O,A/C,T

$930

$28

3.01%

$958

C

Little Morea (2BR) (F)

WS,E,O,A/C,T

$715

$21

2.94%

$736

C

Sunnyside (4BR)

WS,E,O,A/C

$1,480

$44

2.97%

$1,524

C

Brown College House(4 BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$860

$26

3.02%

$886

C

Buckingham Palace

WS,E,HP,A/C,T

$317

$10

3.15%

$327

C

Pavilion I (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$785

$23

2.93%

$808

C

Pavilion II (5BR)

WS,HP,T,V

$581

$17

2.93%

$598

E, C

Pavilion III (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$785

$23

2.93%

$808

C

Pavilion IV (5BR)

WS,HP,T,V

$581

$17

2.93%

$598

E, C

Pavilion V (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$785

$23

2.93%

$808

C

Pavilion VI (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$785

$23

2.93%

$808

C

Pavilion VIII Lower(1BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$265

$8

3.17%

$273

C

Pavilion VIII Upper(3BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$504

$16

3.02%

$520

C

Pavilion IX (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$785

$23

2.93%

$808

C

Pavilion X (5BR)

WS,HP,T,V

$581

$17

2.93%

$598

E,C

Blandy Farm

Curator's House

WS

$0

$0

0.0%

$0

E,O

Green Farm House

WS

$65

$0

0.0%

$65

E,O

Rents

Proposed Rents

Properties

Utilities Furnished

2001-2002 Per Month

Amount Increase

Percent Increase

2002-2003 Per Month

Utilities Paid By Occupant

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE

Houses (6)

WS

$479

$12

2.5%

$491

G,E

2 Bedroom Apt (2)

WS,G

$474

$12

2.5%

$486

E

1 Bedroom Apt (1)

WS,G

$445

$11

2.5%

$456

E

"R" designates renovated properties; "F" designates furnished properties. Utility abbreviations: WS (water, sewer), E (electric), G (gas), O (oil), HP (heating plant), HVAC (heating, venting, and air conditioning system, A/C (window air conditioning), C (cable TV), V (voice and data) and T (trash removal).

The Board resumed meeting, in Open Session, as the full Board at 10:00 a.m., on Saturday, April 6, 2002, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda. Members present were the Rector, Mrs. Holland, and Messrs. Bliley, Crutchfield, Rainey, Robertson, Ross, Warthen, Wolfe, and Ms. Wilson.

The Board adopted the following resolutions:

RESOLVED that the faculty and staff housing rates be approved as indicated, effective July 1, 2002. The Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to increase the rates to market level when a property is vacated.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION (DVTI, INC.)
-------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia wishes to enter into a research contract with Directed Vapor Technologies International, Incorporated (DVTI, Inc.), to further research efforts in direct vapor deposition; and

WHEREAS, Messrs. James F. Groves, Douglas T. Queheillalt, Derek Haas and Haydn N. Wadley have disclosed in advance their equity interests in DVTI, Inc.; and

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia's entry into an agreement with DVTI would thereby expose Messrs. Groves, Queheillalt, Haas and Wadley to violation of the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act unless approved by the Board as permitted by §2.2-3106(c) (7) of the Code of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the waiver of the conflict of interest of Messrs. Groves, Queheillalt, Haas and Wadley is approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to enter into a research agreement with DVTI, Inc., to pursue research in vapor deposition; provided, as required by the law, Messrs. Groves, Queheillalt, Haas and Wadley file the required annual disclosure statement of personal interests in DVTI, Inc., the University files the required annual report concerning the contracts with the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and the dean and department chair, in consultation with the committee established to oversee this relationship, vigilantly oversee application of University resources in the best interests of the University and in accordance with policy.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION (AVIR, LLC)
------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia wishes to enter into a sponsored research contract with AVIR, LLC, to further research on remote chemical sensors; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Gabriel Laufer has disclosed in advance that his equity interests in AVIR, LLC, exceed three percent; and

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia's entry into a research agreement with AVIR, LLC, would thereby expose Mr. Laufer to violation of the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act unless approved by the Board as permitted by §2.2-3106(c) (7) of the Code of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the conflict of interest of Mr. Gabriel Laufer is approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to enter into an agreement with AVIR, LLC, for research funding to investigate remote chemical sensing; provided, as required by the law, Mr. Laufer files the required annual disclosure statement of personal interests in AVIR, LLC, the University files the required annual report concerning the contracts with the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and the dean and department chair vigilantly oversee application of University resources in the best interests of the University and in accordance with policy.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION (YABKO, LLC)
-------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia wishes to enter into a sponsored research contract with Amersham Health, to further research on echocardiography; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Jiri Sklenar and Ms. Irena Sklenar have disclosed in advance that their equity interests in YABKO, LLC, exceed three percent; and

WHEREAS, YABKO, LLC, wishes to enter into a contract with Amersham, Health which is closely related to the proposed contract between the University of Virginia and Amersham Health; and

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia's entry into a research agreement with Amerhsham would thereby expose Jiri and Irena Sklenar to violation of the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act unless approved by the Board as permitted by § 2.2-3106 (c)(7) of the Code of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the conflict of interest of Jiri Sklenar and Irena Sklenar is approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to enter into an agreement with Amersham for research funding to investigate echocardiography imaging; provided, as required by the law, Jiri and Irena Sklenar file the required annual disclosure statement of personal interests in YABKO, LLC, the University files the required annual report concerning the contracts with the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and the dean and department chair vigilantly oversee application of University resources in the best interests of the University and in accordance with policy.

APPROVAL TO CHANGE THE NAME OF A DEGREE IN THE MCINTIRE SCHOOL OF COMMERCE FROM THE MASTER OF SCIENCE IN MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS TO THE MASTER OF SCIENCE IN THE MANAGEMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Master of Science in Management Information Systems degree in the McIntire School of Commerce be changed to the Master of Science in the Management of Information Technology.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR THE ALBEMARLE COUNTY SERVICE AUTHORITY ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY LOCATED AT THE HEALTH SYSTEM'S FLEET OPERATION CENTER ON ROUTE 250 WEST
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, dated April 6, 2002, to the Albemarle County Service Authority for a waterline located adjacent to the property line between the Health System's Fleet Operation Center on Route 250 West and the Health Services Foundation's Northridge Building on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easement.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE THE BUILDING AT 120 11th STREET, S.W.
--------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University will own the building (FAACS Building Number: 209-4001) at 120 11th Street S.W., in the City of Charlottesville; and

WHEREAS, this structure will no longer be used, and the site is needed for future construction projects; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources;

WHEREAS, the Department of Historic Resources does not object to the removal of the structure and it is anticipated the Art and Architectural Review Board will also approve its removal;

RESOLVED that the removal of the building (209-4001) at 120 11th Street S.W., in Charlottesville, is approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that upon written approval of the Department of Historic Resources and the Art and Architectural Review Board the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned building, and that the said officer ensure that the required report regarding the building's removal is sent to the Department of General Services.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTIONS FOR TERM CONTRACTS FOR INTERIOR RENOVATION PROJECTS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Osteen Phillips Architects of Charlottesville and Train & Partners Architects of Charlottesville are approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for projects initiated under term contracts for interior renovation projects.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR THE CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY LOCATED BEHIND CARRUTHERS HALL
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, dated March 7, 2002, to the City of Charlottesville for a waterline located on the property line behind Carruthers Hall on property owned by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easement.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC AND PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE EMMET STREET PARKING STRUCTURE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the schematic and preliminary design, dated March 7, 2002, and prepared by Hartman Cox Architects of Washington, D.C., for the Emmet Street Parking Structure is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE MATERIALS SCIENCE ENGINEERING and NANOTECHNOLOGY BUILDING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated March 7, 2002, and prepared by VMDO Architects of Charlottesville, for the Materials Science Engineering and Nanotechnology Building is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the preliminary design level of development.

APPROVAL OF CONTRACT RATES FOR DINING SERVICES FOR 2002-2003 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ACADEMIC DIVISION

Actual 2001-2002

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 2002-2003

Dining Service Contract (1,2)

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$2,710

$70

2.6%

$2,780

15 Meals per week w/$400 Plus Dollars

2,710

70

2.6%

2,780

13 Meals per week w/$500 Plus Dollars

2,710

70

2.6%

2,780

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $780 Plus Dollars

2,710

70

2.6%

2,780

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,280

70

3.1%

2,350

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,580

0

0.0%

1,580

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,370

0

0.0%

1,370

50 Meals per semester w/ $390 Plus Dollars

1,040

0

0.0%

1,040

Residential Colleges/Language Houses (1,2,3)

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$2,820

$70

2.5%

$2,890

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

2,820

70

2.5%

2,890

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

2,820

70

2.5%

2,890

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $780 Plus Dollars

2,820

70

2.5%

2,890

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,390

70

2.9%

2,460

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,690

0

0.0%

1,690

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,480

0

0.0%

1,480

50 Meals per semester w/ $390 Plus Dollars

1,150

0

0.0%

1,150

Athletics

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$2,820

$70

2.5%

$2,890

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

2,820

70

2.5%

2,890

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

2,820

70

2.5%

2,890

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $780 Plus Dollars

2,820

70

2.5%

2,890

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,390

70

2.9%

2,460

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,690

0

0.0%

1,690

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,480

0

0.0%

1,480

Other

Lawn Meal Plan (3)

$120

$0

0.0%

$120

Law School Meal Plan

N/A

N/A

N/A

$400

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE

19 Meal Plan

$2,294

$93

4.0%

$2,387

12 Meal Plan

$2,064

$82

4.0%

$2,146

RESOLVED that the student contract rates for dining services be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 20022003 session:

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 2001-02

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 2002-03

Actual 2001-02

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 2002-03

REGULAR SESSION

Undergraduate School:

Tuition and Required E& G Fees

$3,144

$283

9.0%

$3,427

$17,176

$1,461

8.5%

$18,637

Auxiliary Fees

$1,053

$89

8.5%

$1,142

$1,053

$89

8.5%

$1,142

Total Tuition and Required Fees

$4,197

$372

8.8%

$4,569

$18,229

$1,550

8.5%

$19,779

Graduate School:

Tuition and Required E& G Fees

$4,086

$407

10.0%

$4,493

$17,176

$407

2.4%

$17,583

Auxiliary Fees

$1,053

$89

8.5%

$1,142

$1,053

$89

8.5%

$1,142

Total Tuition and Required Fees

$5,139

$496

9.7%

$5,635

$18,229

$496

2.7%

$18,725

School of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School (Tuition and Required Fees):

9 or more hours

$5,139

$496

9.7%

$5,635

$18,229

$496

2.7%

$18,725

4-8 hours

$3,811

$1,437

37.7%

$5,248

$12,537

$362

2.9%

$12,899

1-3 hours

$2,005

$2,207

110.7%

$4,212

$6,369

$169

2.7%

$6,538

Research

$1,603

$2,109

131.6%

$3,712

$1,603

$2,109

131.6%

$3,712

Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration (Tuition & Required Fees):

Students Entering Fall 2002

n/a

n/a

n/a

$25,750

n/a

n/a

n/a

$30,750

Students Entering Fall 2001

$22,189

$2,061

9.3%

$24,250

$27,189

$2,061

7.6%

$29,250

School of Law (Tuition & Required Fees):

Students Entering Fall 2002

n/a

n/a

n/a

$20,567

n/a

n/a

n/a

$26,907

Students Entering Fall 2001

$18,017

$1,350

7.5%

$19,367

$25,243

$1,664

6.6%

$26,907

Students Entering Fall 2000

$16,817

$1,350

8.0%

$18,167

$25,243

$1,664

6.6%

$26,907

School of Medicine (Tuition & Required Fees):

Students Entering Fall 2002

n/a

n/a

n/a

$18,153

n/a

n/a

n/a

$30,435

Students Entering Fall 2001

$15,305

$1,348

8.8%

$16,653

$27,805

$2,630

9.5%

$30,435

Students Entering Fall 2000

$14,305

$1,348

9.4%

$15,653

$27,805

$2,630

9.5%

$30,435

Students Entering Fall 1999

$14,305

$1,348

9.4%

$15,653

$27,805

$2,630

9.5%

$30,435

McIntire School of Commerce Executive Master of Science Programs (MIS and Accounting)

Annual Tuition and Fees - MIS

$28,800

$1,175

4.1%

$29,975

$33,800

$1,175

3.5%

$34,975

Annual Tuition and Fees — Accounting

$24,800

$1,805

7.3%

$26,605

$29,800

$1,805

6.1%

$31,605

(2002-03 price includes tuition, fees, lodging, board, technology costs, computer lease, books, local transportation and miscellaneous expenses.)

School of Engineering and Applied Science Executive Master in Systems Engineering Program

Students Entering Fall 2002

n/a

n/a

n/a

$21,000

n/a

n/a

n/a

$21,000

Students Entering Fall 2001

$19,000

$0

0.0%

$19,000

$19,000

$0

0.0%

$19,000

(2002-03 price includes tuition, fees, room, board, software, books, and supplies.)

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 2001-02

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 2002-03

Actual 2001-02

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 2002-03

Other Charges:

Application Fee — Undergraduate

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

Application Fee — Graduate

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

Application Fee — Law

$65

$0

0.0%

$65

$65

$0

0.0%

$65

Application Fee — Darden

$140

$0

0.0%

$140

$140

$0

0.0%

$140

Application Fee — Medicine

$60

$0

0.0%

$60

$60

$0

0.0%

$60

Activity Fee — All Full-time Students

$39

$0

0.0%

$39

$39

$0

0.0%

$39

Activity Fee — All Part-time Students

$12

$0

0.0%

$12

$12

$0

0.0%

$12

Activity Fee — Arts & Sciences

$4

$0

0.0%

$4

$4

$0

0.0%

$4

Activity Fee — Architecture

$46

$0

0.0%

$46

$46

$0

0.0%

$46

Activity Fee — Commerce

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Activity Fee — Darden

$55

$0

0.0%

$55

$55

$0

0.0%

$55

Activity Fee — Education

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Activity Fee — Engineering

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Activity Fee — Grad. Arts & Sciences

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Activity Fee — Law School

$34

$0

0.0%

$34

$34

$0

0.0%

$34

Activity Fee — Medicine

$106

$0

0.0%

$106

$106

$0

0.0%

$106

Activity Fee — Nursing

$55

$0

0.0%

$55

$55

$0

0.0%

$55

Residential College Fee — Hereford

$100

$20

20.0%

$120

$100

$20

20.0%

$120

Residential College Fee — Brown

$120

$0

0.0%

$120

$120

$0

0.0%

$120

Residential College Fee — International

$120

$100

83.3%

$220

$120

$100

83.3%

$220

Residential College Fee — Mosaic

$100

$120

120.0%

$220

$100

$120

120.0%

$220

Residential College Fee — French

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

Residential College Fee — Spanish

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

Residential College Fee — Monroe Lane

n/a

n/a

n/a

$100

n/a

n/a

n/a

$100

School of Continuing and Professional Studies (SCPS):

Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies (BIS) Per Semester

1-3 hours

$635

$57

9.0%

$692

$2,846

$244

8.5%

$3,090

4-8 hours

$1,287

$116

9.0%

$1,403

$5,692

$485

8.5%

$6,177

9 or more hours

$1,916

$173

9.0%

$2,089

$8,539

$730

8.5%

$9,269

Non-Degree Programs Per Hour

Undergraduate

$113

$10

8.8%

$123

$261

$22

8.4%

$283

Graduate

$147

$33

22.4%

$180

$261

$37

14.2%

$298

K-12 Educators

$133

$12

9.0%

$145

$238

$19

8.0%

$257

Professional Programs Per Hour

Northern Virginia

$163

$17

10.4%

$180

$270

$28

10.4%

$298

All Other Centers

$157

$23

14.6%

$180

$264

$34

12.9%

$298

Special Students Registered through SCPS

in On-Grounds Courses Per Hour

$211

$10

4.7%

$221

$944

$47

5.0%

$991

Graduate Degree Programs Per Hour

Northern Virginia

$209

$6

2.9%

$215

$332

$18

5.4%

$350

All Other Centers

$204

$11

5.4%

$215

$326

$24

7.4%

$350

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 2001-02

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 2002-03

Actual 2001-02

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 2002-03

Graduate Televised Engineering Per Hour

Northern Virginia

$272

$22

8.1%

$294

$524

$42

8.0%

$566

All Other Centers

$267

$27

10.1%

$294

$516

$50

9.7%

$566

Application Fee

Certificate and Special Programs

$25

$0

0.0%

$25

$25

$0

0.0%

$25

Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

No. Va. Center Facilities Fee Per Hour

$10

$2

20.0%

$12

$10

$2

20.0%

$12

Technology Fee

$20

$0

0.0%

$20

$20

$0

0.0%

$20

Other Miscellaneous Fees as established to recover expenses such as laboratory, materials, etc., on a basis of estimated cost.

2003 Summer Session and Mt. Lake Biological Station:

Undergraduate Per Semester Hour

$109

$9

8.3%

$118

$598

$51

8.5%

$649

Graduate Per Semester Hour

$111

$11

9.9%

$122

$598

$14

2.3%

$612

Thesis/Dissertation Research

$464

$46

9.9%

$510

$464

$46

9.9%

$510

Appellate Judges Program

$1,273

$102

8.0%

$1,375

$1,347

$88

6.5%

$1,435

Non-Resident Fee

$68

$7

10.3%

$75

$68

$7

10.3%

$75

Summer Foreign Language Institute:

Non-credit Tuition

$1,308

$108

8.3%

$1,416

$7,176

$612

8.5%

$7,788

Institute Fee

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

Mt. Lake Laboratory Use Fee

$82

$2

2.4%

$84

$82

$2

2.4%

$84

Mt. Lake Non-UVa Researcher (per week):

Senior Investigators

$238

$6

2.5%

$244

$238

$6

2.5%

$244

Co-Investigators

$62

$2

3.2%

$64

$62

$2

3.2%

$64

Graduate Students

$62

$2

3.2%

$64

$62

$2

3.2%

$64

2002 New Student Orientation:

Orientation Fee

$185

$0

0.0%

$185

$185

$0

0.0%

$185

(The Orientation Fee will be rolled into the total tuition and fee bill for first year and transfer students in the first year of enrollment.)

OTHER:

Other contracted course and cooperative program tuition and required fee rates, including tuition for specialized graduate and professional credit courses, approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the Academic Division be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 2002:

APPROVAL OF ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES FOR 2002-2003 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Actual 2001-02

Amount of Inc./(Decr.)

Percent Inc./(Decr.)

Proposed 2002-03

University Transit

$88

$3

3.4%

$91

Escort Services

$4

$1

25.0%

$5

Recreational Facilities

$73

$45

61.6%

$118

Auxiliary Debt Service

$187

($29)

(15.5%)

$158

Athletics

$288

$50

17.4%

$338

Student Health

$292

$2

0.7%

$294

Newcomb Hall Operating

$106

$0

0.0%

$106

Student Programming

$26

$0

0.0%

$26

WTJU

$6

$0

0.0%

$6

Capital Renewal Fee

$24

$0

0.0%

$24

Arts Fee

$12

$0

0.0%

$12

Technology Fee

$45

$0

0.0%

$45

E& G Facilities Debt Service

n/a

$25

n/a

$25

TOTAL FOR ALL STUDENTS

$1,151

$97

8.4%

$1,248

RESOLVED that the athletics fee component of the tuition and required fees be increased by $50 contingent on an appropriate agreement between the University and the Commonwealth of Virginia that ensures compliance with state policy; and

RESOLVED that, providing such agreement is reached, the fee component of the tuition and required fees be established, effective July 1, 2002, in the amount of $1,248; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the fee component be allocated for the 2002-03 Session as follows:

APPROVAL OF SPECIAL SESSION FEE RATE
------------------------------------

Actual 2001-02

Amount of Inc./(Decr.)

Percent Inc./(Decr.)

Proposed 2002-03

University Transit

$17

$1

5.9%

$18

Escort Services

$1

$1

100.0%

$2

Recreational Facilities

$19

$2

10.5%

$21

Student Health (Summer Session only)

$95

$1

1.1%

$96

Newcomb Hall Operating

$20

$0

0.0%

$20

Classroom Renewal Fee

$6

$0

0.0%

$6

Technology Fee

$5

$0

0.0%

$5

Arts Fee

$6

$0

0.0%

$6

E& G Facilities Debt Service

n/a

$1

n/a

$1

SPECIAL SESSION TOTAL:

$169

$6

3.6%

$175

RESOLVED that the special session fees for the Academic Division be increased as follows, effective beginning with the fall session of 2002:

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 2001-02

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 2002-03

Actual 2001-02

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 2002-03

Tuition and Required E&G Fees

Full-time Students (12 hours or more per semester) Session Rate

$1,930

$174

9.0%

$2,104

$8,968

$896

10.0%

$9,864

Auxiliary Fees

$1,540

$200

13.0%

$1,740

$1,540

$200

13.0%

$1,740

Total Tuition and Required Fees

$3,470

$374

10.8%

$3,844

$10,508

$1,096

10.4%

$11,604

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the tuition rates listed below:

Part-time Students (less than 12 hrs. per semester) per semester hr.

$77

$7

9.1%

$84

$368

$37

10.1%

$405

Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses per hour

$77

$7

9.1%

$84

$258

$26

10.1%

$284

Non-Credit Courses per CEU

$34

$3

8.8%

$37

$112

$11

9.8%

$123

Other Fees:

Application Fee

$15

$10

66.7%

$25

$15

$10

66.7%

$25

Graduation Fee

$50

$0

0.0%

$50

$50

$0

0.0%

$50

A Registration Fee for part-time students will be $5 per semester hour.

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the University of Virginia's College at Wise be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 2002:

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to approve reduced tuition rates for residents of Kentucky who live in counties that are within a 50-mile radius of The University of Virginia's College at Wise and who are enrolled at the College in accordance with Section 23-7.4:2.F of the Code of Virginia.

APPROVAL OF THE APPOINTMENTS TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE BOARD
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Mr. Jack Kennedy, Jr., Mr. James Michael Thomas, and Ms. Adriana Trigiani be appointed to The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board for a term ending June 30, 2006, and that Mr. Earl Wendell Barnette be appointed to The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board to fill the unexpired term of The Honorable Jerry W. Kilgore, ending June 30, 2003; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that Ms. Eliza S. Rigg, Mr. Michael G. McGlothlin, Mr. William J. Sturgill and Dr. Joseph Frank Smiddy be re-appointed to The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board for a term ending June 30, 2006, in accordance with the terms of its bylaws.

APPROVAL OF URADCO JOINT VENTURE WITH INSIGHT IMAGING, LLC
----------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University Radiology Development Corporation (URADCO) was established by the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation (HSF) to engage in business arrangements and joint ventures to advance the interests of HSF radiologists; and

WHEREAS, Insight Imaging, LLC, is a for-profit Delaware corporation; and

WHEREAS, Insight Imaging, LLC, and URADCO wish to enter into a joint venture that will use the services of HSF radiologists for interpretation, medical direction and consultative services at computed tomography screening centers in Virginia (except for the University Medical Center's specified primary and secondary service areas), the District of Columbia, and/or Maryland; and

WHEREAS, HSF and URADCO have agreed that the clinical needs of the University of Virginia Health System shall receive priority in the allocation of Department of Radiology resources;

RESOLVED that the joint venture between URADCO and Insight Imaging, LLC, is hereby approved, subject to the understanding that the clinical needs of the University of Virginia Health System shall receive priority in allocating resources of the Department of Radiology, and the joint venture will not operate clinics in the University's primary and secondary service areas. URADCO shall receive from the University a document identifying the primary and secondary service areas of the University Medical Center, and shall incorporate the document into the term sheet and final contract with Insight Imaging, LLC.

ADOPTION OF THE GOVERNOR'S STATEMENT ON EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY AS UNIVERSITY POLICY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following statement of the Governor of Virginia identified as Executive Order Number One (2002) be adopted as an official policy of the University of Virginia:

Executive Order Number One (2002)

By virtue of the authority vested in me as Governor, I hereby declare that it is the firm and unwavering policy of the Commonwealth of Virginia to assure equal opportunity in all facets of state government.

This policy specifically prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, sex, color, national origin, religion, age, or political affiliation, or against otherwise qualified persons with disabilities.

State appointing authorities and other management principals are hereby directed to take affirmative measures, as determined by the Director of the Department of Human Resource Management, to emphasize the recruitment of qualified minorities, women, disabled persons, and older Virginians to serve at all levels of state government. This directive does not permit or require the lowering of bona fide job requirements, performance standards, or qualifications to give preference to any state employee or applicant for state employment.

Allegations of violations of this policy shall be brought to the attention of the Office of Equal Employment Services of the Department of Human Resource Management. No state appointing authority, other management principals, or supervisors shall take retaliatory actions against persons making such allegations.

Any state employee found in violation of this policy shall be subject to appropriate disciplinary action.

The Secretary of Administration is directed to review annually state procurement, employment, and other relevant policies for compliance with the non-discrimination mandate contained herein, and shall report to the Governor his findings together with such recommendations as he deems appropriate. The Director of the Department of Human Resource Management shall assist in this review.

This Executive Order supersedes and rescinds Executive Order Number Two (98), Equal Opportunity, issued by Governor James S. Gilmore, III, on January 17, 1998.

This Executive Order shall become effective upon its signing and shall remain in full force and effect until amended or rescinded by further executive order.

Given under my hand and under the Seal of the Commonwealth of Virginia this 12th day of January, 2002.

STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FOR APPROVAL OF INCREASES IN THE ATHLETICS STUDENT FEE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, athletics and physical education are an important part of a well-rounded curriculum at any college or university; and

WHEREAS, athletics is particularly important to the University of Virginia community as our founder, Thomas Jefferson, was an early proponent of combining physical education with an academic education; and

WHEREAS, the tradition of student athletes in Olympic sports at the University of Virginia is seriously threatened by a lack of funding to meet increased requirements imposed upon them by the NCAA, ACC and other sports authorities; and

WHEREAS, in October 2001, the Board received and concurred with the Department of Athletics five-year financial plan to address the threat to the University's Olympic sports and to save them from elimination; and

WHEREAS, the five-year plan calls for revenues to increase by $13.1 million by fiscal year 2006; and

WHEREAS, increases in student fees are required to generate $3.7 million of the additional projected revenues which will be used merely to maintain the status quo and to avoid eliminating Olympic sports; and

WHEREAS, the Board is fully committed to continued support of athletics and student athletes at the University of Virginia, particularly the Olympic sports;

RESOLVED that the University's administration use all available means to obtain the necessary state authorization to increase the student fee for athletics by $50 in fiscal year 2003 and in the future by such additional amounts as may be needed to achieve the objectives of the five-year plan; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the University's Board of Visitors STRONGLY urges the Commonwealth and its Executive Branch to concur with the University of Virginia's view that the increase in this student fee is lawful.

APPROVAL OF THE TRANSFER OF FUNDS TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA REAL ESTATE FOUNDATION FOR COSTS RELATED TO THE BLUE RIDGE HOSPITAL PROPERTY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Title 23, Chapter 457 of the 2000 Virginia Acts of Assembly permits the Governor to authorize the conveyance of 142 acres of land in Albemarle County and located at the southeast intersection of Route 20 and Interstate 64, and 17 acres of land located at the northwest intersection of Route 20 and Interstate 64, all commonly known as the Blue Ridge Hospital Property (the Property), to the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation (the Real Estate Foundation); and

WHEREAS, on October 18, 2001, the Governor of Virginia authorized the conveyance of the Property to the Real Estate Foundation, subject to the terms and conditions of a Memorandum of Understanding among the University, the Real Estate Foundation and the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation dated October 6, 2000, and approved by the Governor; and

WHEREAS, the Memorandum of Understanding states that the Property shall be held and managed by the Real Estate Foundation "on behalf of and exclusively for the benefit of the University of Virginia"; and

WHEREAS, the Memorandum of Understanding also states that the Real Estate Foundation shall "develop the Property as a research park for uses that further the educational and research mission of the University while respecting the Property's unique historical and environmental significance due to its location at the base of Monticello Mountain"; and

WHEREAS, in order to fulfill its responsibilities under the Memorandum of Understanding, the Real Estate Foundation will incur substantial costs for site preparation and restoration work at the Property;

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, with the concurrence of the Chair of the Finance Committee, is authorized to transfer up to $3 million to the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation for site preparation, restoration, and other ongoing initial expenses of preparing the Blue Ridge Hospital Property for development as a research park.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period September 1, 2001, through January 10, 2002, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL TO ENTER INTO A PARTNERSHIP WITH OUTPATIENT IMAGING AFFILIATES FOR THE PROVISION OF IMAGING SERVICES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Medical Center of the University of Virginia desires to expand its radiology imaging business to continue and further its mission of clinical care, teaching, and research; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center, in furtherance of these aims wishes to enter into a joint venture with Outpatient Imaging Affiliates, LLC, a national leader in providing and managing imaging services; and

WHEREAS, Section 23-77.3 of the Code of Virginia grants authority to the Medical Center to enter into joint ventures;

RESOLVED that the University, on behalf of the Medical Center, enter into a joint venture with Outpatient Imaging Affiliates, LLC, to provide outpatient imaging services to the Medical Center's region, with the University contributing its existing diagnostic imaging service and equipment located in the Fontaine Building; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that on the recommendation of the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center, and with the concurrence of the Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University is authorized to negotiate and execute, in consultation with the General Counsel, contracts and other legal documents pertaining to the creation and formation of the joint venture.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Elections of Chairholders(b) Change in the Title of the Election of Dr. Anthony L. McCall(c) Special Salary Action of Chairholder(d) Retirements of Chairholders(e) Change in the Title of the Retirement of Dr. Theodore E. KeatsPROMOTIONSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTSCHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE RETIREMENT OF DR. THEODORE E. KEATSAPPOINTMENTSRE-APPOINTMENTSELECTION OF DR. ARTHUR GARSON, JR., AS DEAN OF THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND VICE PRESIDENTELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITICHANGE IN THE EMERITUS TITLE OF DR. THEODORE E. KEATSELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUSDEATHS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons were elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders were approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the election of Dr. Anthony L. McCall as Professor of Internal Medicine, effective October 1, 2001, at an annual salary of $100,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated January 26, 2002, be changed to read as follows:

The President announced that the title of Dr. Theodore E. Keats as Professor of Radiology, effective June 30, 2001, as shown in the retirement section of the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated October 19, 2001, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the following person was promoted:

RESOLVED that the following persons received the salary indicated:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirements were announced:

The President announced that the title of Dr. Theodore E. Keats as Professor of Radiology, effective June 30, 2001, as shown in the retirement section of the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated October 19, 2001, be changed to read as follows:

The following appointments were announced:

The following re-appointments were announced:

RESOLVED that Dr. Arthur Garson, Jr., was elected Dean of the School of Medicine and Vice President, for five years, effective June 25, 2002.

RESOLVED that the following persons were elected Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that the Emeritus title of Dr. Theodore E. Keats as Professor of Radiology, effective June 30, 2001, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated October 19, 2001, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the following person was elected Associate Professor Emeritus:

The following deaths were announced:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISEELECTIONACTION RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDER(a) Special Salary Action of ChairholderSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSAPPOINTMENTSRETIREMENTSELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following person was elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the action relating to the chairholder was approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the following persons received the salary indicated:

The following appointments were announced:

The following retirements were announced:

RESOLVED that the following persons were elected Professor Emeritus:

The following actions of the Board of Directors of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company (UVIMCO) were taken at the meeting of the Board held in New York on March 21, 2002. They do not require action by the Board of Visitors and are listed here simply as a matter of record.

The UVIMCO Board also approved new targets for the endowment fund: 5% for domestic equity, 5% for emerging markets, 20% for private equity, 60% for hedge funds, 5% for real estate and 5% for fixed income.

The following resolutions adopted by the Medical Center Operating Board at its meeting on April 4, 2002, do not require action by the full Board and are listed here as a matter of record.

ORGANIZATIONAL RESOLUTION
-------------------------

WHEREAS, by virtue of the Board of Visitors' creation of the Medical Center Operating Board on January 26, 2002, the Medical Center Operating Board is the governing body of the University of Virginia Medical Center and is responsible for its operation and management; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center is not an incorporated entity separate and apart from the University of Virginia, an agency of the Commonwealth, nor is the Medical Center governed by "bylaws" in the same way as a traditional corporation in the private sector may be so governed, but

the January 26, 2002, resolution of the Board of Visitors creating the Medical Center Operating Board provides that the resolution, together with the Manual of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, shall serve as the bylaws of the Medical Center Operating Board; and

WHEREAS, the January 26 resolution authorizes the Medical Center Operating Board to adopt resolutions, as necessary and appropriate, for the governance of the Medical Center; and

WHEREAS, in furtherance of the mission of the Medical Center, the Medical Center Operating Board desires to adopt certain resolutions which acknowledge its role in establishing Medical Center policy, promoting performance improvement within the Medical Center, providing for organizational management and planning for the Medical Center and addressing its accountabilities and responsibilities to the patient population served by the Medical Center; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board further desires to ratify and adopt all existing Medical Center policies that have been approved and adopted by the Medical Policy Council or have been adopted by senior administration of the Medical Center prior to the date hereof; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board further desires to adopt certain resolutions for the continued governance of the Medical Center and as required by regulating agencies, accrediting entities or applicable laws in accordance with the delegation to it by the Board of Visitors;

RESOLVED that the Medical Center Operating Board acknowledges that a criteria-based process for selecting a qualified and competent Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center, including the responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer, has been established previously by the Board of Visitors and is adopted by the Medical Center Operating Board; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Medical Center Operating Board acknowledges the right of the medical staff to attendance and voice through a representative chosen by the medical staff at Medical Center Operating Board meetings, and that the elected President of the Medical Center medical staff shall serve as this representative; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Medical Center Operating Board ratifies and adopts all existing Medical Center policies that have been approved and adopted by the Medical Policy Council prior to April 4, 2002; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that until further resolution of this Committee, the Medical Policy Council shall continue in its present format and shall serve as the executive committee of the clinical staff of the Medical Center; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that subject to the continuing authority and policies of the Medical Center Operating Board, the Medical Policy Council is hereby delegated the authority for (i) determining the appropriate criteria for appointment and reappointment of clinicians to the clinical staff of the Medical Center and the appropriate criteria for appointment and reappointment of healthcare professionals practicing within the Medical Center, (ii) appointing and reappointing, in accordance with the established criteria, qualified clinicians to the clinical staff of the Medical Center and qualified healthcare professionals to practice within the Medical Center, and (iii) granting of privileges to the clinical staff of the Medical Center and healthcare professionals practicing within the Medical Center as determined by the Medical Policy Council to be appropriate for each individual; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Medical Center Operating Board hereby ratifies and adopts all existing Medical Center policies that have been approved and adopted by senior administration of the Medical Center prior to April 4, 2002; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center is hereby delegated the authority to adopt appropriate policies and procedures over administrative matters within the Medical Center; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Medical Center shall be managed and operated in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, requirements of the Board of Visitors and the Medical Center Operating Board, applicable University policies and procedures, and Medical Center policies and procedures, including the Compliance Code of Conduct and the applicable conflict of interest requirements as defined under law.

CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFRE-APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFLOCUM TENENS APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFRESIGNATION FROM THE CLINICAL STAFFNEW APPOINTMENTS OF HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFRE-APPOINTMENT OF HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF RESIGNATION OF HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Medical Policy Council for appointment to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Medical Policy Council for re-appointment to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Medical Policy Council for the appointment as a locum tenens for appointment to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioner is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Medical Policy Council for the resignation of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Medical Policy Council for the granting of credentials to the following healthcare professionals for appointment to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Medical Policy Council for the re-appointment of the following healthcare professionals to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Medical Policy Council for the resignation of clinical privileges to the following healthcare professionals are approved:

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 10:15 a.m.

AGG:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIAMeeting Date: April 5-6, 2002CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session — as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia — only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from considered in closed session.