 TEI to HTML

May 04, 2004 MEMORANDUM
-----------------------

TO:

The Board of Visitors:

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector

Thomas F. Farrell, II, Vice Rector

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

Don R. Pippin

Susan Y. Dorsey

Terence P. Ross

G. Slaughter Fitz–Hugh, Jr.

Thomas A. Saunders, III

W. Heywood Fralin

Warren M. Thompson

Glynn D. Key

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

Mark J. Kington

Georgia M. Willis

Lewis F. Payne

John O. Wynne

James W. Head

FROM:

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

SUBJECT:

Minutes of the Trip to The University of Virginia's College at Wise

TO: The Board of Visitors:Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., RectorThomas F. Farrell, II, Vice Rector William G. Crutchfield, Jr. Don R. Pippin Susan Y. Dorsey Terence P. Ross G. Slaughter Fitz–Hugh, Jr. Thomas A. Saunders, III W. Heywood Fralin Warren M. Thompson Glynn D. Key E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D. Mark J. Kington Georgia M. Willis Lewis F. Payne John O. Wynne James W. Head FROM: Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. SUBJECT: Minutes of the Trip to The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Members of the Board of Visitors – William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Ms. Glynn Key, John O. Wynne, Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, Ms. Georgia M. Willis, G. Slaughter Fitz–Hugh, Jr., and Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector – together with the Board Secretary, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., visited The University of Virginia’s College at Wise on Tuesday, May 4, 2004. At Wise, they were met by Don R. Pippin, Member of the Board of Visitors, and by the Chancellor and several members of the College Administration and others. Most of the visiting Members had not previously visited the College and the trip was envisioned as a kind of orientation tour; no meeting of the Board of Visitors was held and no business was conducted.

The visit began at 9:30 a.m. when Members arrived at the Lonesome Pine Airport and ended, also at the Airport, at 2:30 p.m.

Minutes of Wise Tour – May 4, 2004
----------------------------------

Copies to:

Mr. John T. Casteen, III

Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge

Mr. Steven H. Kaplan

Mr. Ernest H. Ern

The visiting Members were given a tour by bus of the grounds of the College, including the football stadium, and of the town of Wise. At the College, Members toured, on foot, the Science Building, the Library and the Student Center. Chancellor and Mrs. Kaplan gave a luncheon at their residence for the Members and other guests.

AGG: lah

These minutes have been posted to the University of Virginia’s Board of Visitors website. http://www.virginia.edu/bov/publicminutes.html

Copies to: Mr. John T. Casteen, III Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge Mr. Steven H. Kaplan Mr. Ernest H. Ern