 TEI to HTML

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS JUNE 11-12, 2004
-------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Approval of the Minutes of the Meeting of April 15-17, 2004

6676

Election of the Executive Committee

6677

Approval of Additions to the Agenda

6677

Memorial Resolution on Captain Humayun Saqib Khan

6678

Acceptance of Gifts and Grants Report

6679

Approval of the Reappointment of Eugene V. Fife to the Medical Center Operating Board

6682

Approval of Intent to Issue Bonds for Capital Projects

6682

Approval of the Acquisition of Virginia Ambulatory Surgery Center

6684

Approval of the 2004-2005 Operating Budget for the Academic Division

6685

Approval of the 2004-2005 Operating Budget for The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

6685

Approval of the 2004-2005 Operating and Capital Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center

6685

Approval of Pratt Fund Distribution for 2004-2005

6685

Approval to Issue Comfort Letters for the University of Virginia Foundation

6686

Acquisition of Assets of Lynchburg Nephrology Dialysis, Inc.

6687

Approval of Amendments to the Medical Center’s Employee Benefit Plans Relating to the Takeover of VASI

6687

PAGE

Increase in Fayerweather Hall Project Budget

6688

Approval of the Audit Schedule

6688

Approval of Reappointments to The University of Virginia’s College at Wise Board

6688

Approval to Establish the Samuel Braley Gray Professorship in Mathematics Education

6688

Approval to Establish the United Technologies Corporation Professorship in Business Administration

6689

Approval of the Naming of Duffy Boulevard at the Darden School

6690

Approval of the Compliance Schedule

6690

Approval of the Summary of Audit Findings

6690

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

6691

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Election of Chairholders

6692

Special Salary Action of Chairholders

6692

Retirement of Chairholders

6692

Election of Professor Emeritus

6692

Promotions

6693

Special Salary Actions

6704

Resignations

6705

Retirements

6705

Appointments

6706

Re-Appointments

6706

Election of Professor Emerita

6708

Deaths

6708

Approval of Programs and Initiatives Made by the Alumni Relations Task Force and Creation of Working Group to Study Task Force Recommendations

6708

Resolution of Commendation to the President’s Commission on Diversity

6708

Memorial Resolution on Raynell Goodman Lantor

6709

PAGE

Meeting of the Medical Center Operating Board, May 3, 2004

6710

Actions of the Board of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company (UVIMCO), May 19, 2004

6710

Buildings and Grounds Committee, May 25, 2004

6710

Approval of Schematic Design for the Studio Art Building

PAGEApproval of the Minutes of the Meeting of April 15-17, 20046676Election of the Executive Committee6677Approval of Additions to the Agenda6677Memorial Resolution on Captain Humayun Saqib Khan6678Acceptance of Gifts and Grants Report6679Approval of the Reappointment of Eugene V. Fife to the Medical Center Operating Board6682Approval of Intent to Issue Bonds for Capital Projects6682Approval of the Acquisition of Virginia Ambulatory Surgery Center6684Approval of the 2004-2005 Operating Budget for the Academic Division6685Approval of the 2004-2005 Operating Budget for The University of Virginia’s College at Wise6685Approval of the 2004-2005 Operating and Capital Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center6685Approval of Pratt Fund Distribution for 2004-20056685Approval to Issue Comfort Letters for the University of Virginia Foundation6686Acquisition of Assets of Lynchburg Nephrology Dialysis, Inc.6687Approval of Amendments to the Medical Center’s Employee Benefit Plans Relating to the Takeover of VASI6687 PAGEIncrease in Fayerweather Hall Project Budget6688Approval of the Audit Schedule6688Approval of Reappointments to The University of Virginia’s College at Wise Board6688Approval to Establish the Samuel Braley Gray Professorship in Mathematics Education6688Approval to Establish the United Technologies Corporation Professorship in Business Administration6689Approval of the Naming of Duffy Boulevard at the Darden School6690Approval of the Compliance Schedule6690Approval of the Summary of Audit Findings6690Faculty Personnel ActionsElections6691Actions Relating to ChairholdersElection of Chairholders6692Special Salary Action of Chairholders6692Retirement of Chairholders6692Election of Professor Emeritus6692Promotions6693Special Salary Actions6704Resignations6705Retirements6705Appointments6706Re-Appointments6706Election of Professor Emerita6708Deaths6708Approval of Programs and Initiatives Made by the Alumni Relations Task Force and Creation of Working Group to Study Task Force Recommendations6708Resolution of Commendation to the President’s Commission on Diversity6708Memorial Resolution on Raynell Goodman Lantor6709 PAGEMeeting of the Medical Center Operating Board, May 3, 20046710 Actions of the Board of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company (UVIMCO), May 19, 20046710Buildings and Grounds Committee, May 25, 20046710Approval of Schematic Design for the Studio Art Building

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS June 11-12, 2004
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 11:30 a.m., Friday, June 11, 2004, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector, presided. William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., W. Heywood Fralin, Ms. Glynn D. Key, Mark J. Kington, Lewis F. Payne, Don R. Pippin, Terence P. Ross, Thomas A. Saunders, III, Warren M. Thompson, E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., Ms. Georgia M. Willis, John O. Wynne, and James W. Head were present.

Thomas F. Farrell, Jr., Vice Rector, participated by telephone.

Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D., R. Ariel Gomez, M.D., William W. Harmon, R. Edward Howell, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Ms. Yoke San L. Reynolds, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

IN MEMORIAM, PRESIDENT REAGAN
-----------------------------

The Rector called the meeting to order and asked for a moment of silence in memory of President Ronald Reagan, whose funeral was taking place in Washington.

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
--------------------

The Rector asked Mr. Crutchfield to lead the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.

APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE APRIL BOARD MEETING
--------------------------------------------------

On motion, the Minutes of the Board meeting of April 15-17, 2004, were approved.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

Pursuant to Section 3.1 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, which states that the Executive Committee of the Board must be elected at the Annual Meeting of the Board, the Rector placed in nomination Messrs. Crutchfield, Kington, Ross and Saunders for the Executive Committee; he pointed out that the Rector and the Vice Rector automatically serve on the Executive Committee. On motion, the nominees, along with the Rector and the Vice Rector, were elected.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEES
----------------------------------

Section 3.2 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors provides for the appointment by the Rector of the standing committees of the Board at the Annual Meeting. The Rector reminded the Board that he had made these appointments at the April Board meeting, and he referred Members to the list of Committee members (the Committee lists are appended to these Minutes as Attachment A).

REAPPOINTMENT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON DIVERSITY AND THE DISBANDING OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON GOVERNANCE AND THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE SOUTH LAWN PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Special committees of the Board must either be reappointed at the Annual Meeting or disbanded. Accordingly, the Rector reappointed the Special Committee on Diversity and disbanded the Special Committee on Governance and the Special Committee on the South Lawn Project, the work of both committees having been completed.

SETTING OF THE NEXT ANNUAL MEETING
----------------------------------

Section 2.31 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors specifies that the next Annual Meeting of the Board be set at the previous Annual Meeting. The Rector set the 2005 Annual Meeting of the Board for June 9-11, 2005.

ADDITIONS TO THE AGENDA
-----------------------

The consideration of “walk-on” additions to the published Agenda of a Board meeting must be approved by two-thirds of the Members present. Stating that there were three such additions, the Rector asked for approval of their consideration. On motion, approval was granted.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION ON CAPTAIN HUMAYUN SAQIB KHAN
-------------------------------------------------

The Rector informed the Board that the first alumnus of the University’s ROTC programs to be killed in Iraq died on June 8th. He then proposed a Memorial Resolution for Captain Humayun Saqib Khan of Prince William County, a member of the Class of 2000 of the College and an alumnus of the University’s Army ROTC program.

WHEREAS, Humayun Saqib Khan of Prince William County matriculated in the College in 1996; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Khan joined the ROTC at the University as a first year student and distinguished himself in every way as a cadet; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Khan was commissioned a Second Lieutenant when he graduated from the University in 2000; and

WHEREAS, Lieutenant Khan in due course was promoted to Captain; and

WHEREAS, Captain Khan and his unit, the 201ST Forward Support Battalion of the First Infantry Division, were deployed to Iraq in February, 2004; and

WHEREAS, Captain Khan was killed near Baqubah on June 8, 2004, the first alumnus of any of the University’s ROTC Programs to be killed in Iraq;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors notes with profound sorrow the death of Captain Humayun Saqib Khan, salutes the supreme sacrifice this alumnus of the University of Virginia made for his country, and expresses its sympathy to his parents and to his brothers.

PRESIDENT’S REPORT
------------------

The President listed a number of honors won by University faculty and organizations: Ms. Ann Beattie, Edgar Allan Poe Professor of Creative Writing, has been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Vice President Lampkin has received the award, “Outstanding Mentor to Graduate Students,” presented by the American College Personnel Association. Dr. John Jane, Chair of the Department of Neurological Surgery, has been awarded the 2004 Harvey Cushing Medal of the American Association of Neurological Surgeons. Major Fritz Pfeiffer of the Department of Naval Science has won an award as the number- one Naval ROTC instructor in the country. And several University communications offices have been given CASE awards.

The President reported on his trip earlier in the week to Reykjavik for a meeting of the Leifur Eiriksson Foundation. The Foundation is to provide scholarships for University of Virginia students to study in Iceland and for Icelandic students to study at the University. Next week, he said, he will lead a group of alumni on a walking tour in Dorset.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

Private giving to the University and its related foundations is $150.3million for the current fiscal year, through April 30th; this is a decrease of $68.9million from the same period last year. He went on to say, however, that last year’s figures reflect the extraordinary gift of more than $111million from the estate of the late David Harrison of Prince George County. If the Harrison bequest is subtracted from last year’s total, the base rate of fundraising has increased some 39% over the same period last year.

Some gifts received since the President’s report at the April Board meeting include a residual bequest of $4,725,000 from the Harrison Estate to the Athletics Department, the Law School Foundation and the Medical School. The Middendorf Foundation has given $1million to the Jefferson Scholars Foundation in memory of Mr. E. Phillips Hathaway, ’42. Mr. John L. Nau, III and Mrs. Barbara E. Nau of Houston have made a $1million pledge payment to the College Foundation. Mr. Edward J. Kelly, III, has pledged $3million to the Law School Foundation for the endowed professorship which bears his name. Mr. Carl H. Lindner, III, and Mrs. Martha S. Lindner of Cincinatti have pledged $2.8million to the College for the Carl H. and Martha S. Lindner Art History Fund.

On motion, the Gifts and Grants Report was accepted.

The Board recessed at 12:00 noon for lunch.

REPORTS
-------

The Board resumed at 1:10 p.m., to hear reports from the Chairs of the Committees on the meetings of their respective committees. (A resolution was offered during the report of the Finance Committee; see the Minutes of the Finance Committee meeting of June 11, 2004, for this resolution.) The report session ended at 1:55 p.m.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------

After a short break, the Board resumed at 2:00 p.m. All Members present at the Preliminary Meeting were present, save Mr. Farrell. The Board then – after adopting the following motions – went into Executive Session:

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific employees of the University of Virginia; as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to consult with General Counsel on the draft charter legislation and with regard to his privileged report to the Board on pending and anticipated litigation affecting the University, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(7) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board resumed in Open Session and recessed as the full Board at 3:15 p.m., after adopting the following resolution certifying that its discussions in Executive Session had been conducted in accordance with the exemptions permitted by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act:

Mr. Rector, I move that we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member’s knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

REPORT AND PRESENTATION, MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD
-------------------------------------------------------

The Board resumed, in Open Session, as the full Board at 8:00 a.m., Saturday, June 12th, to hear the report of the Medical Center Operating Board on its meeting of May 3, 2004. The Chair of the MCOB presented a “walk-on” resolution (see the separate Minutes of the MCOB report session, June 12, 2004), and the full Board heard a presentation by Dr. Kenneth Brayman, “Human Pancreatic Islet Cell Transplantation: The Quest for the Cure of Diabetes.” All Members present at the meeting of the full Board the previous afternoon were again present, save Ms. Key, Mr. Ross, Mr. Saunders, and Mr. Head.

This portion of the meeting ended at 8:40 a.m.

POLICY DISCUSSION
-----------------

The Board continued, in Open Session, as the full Board for a policy discussion on the forthcoming Capital Campaign. All Members were present, save Mr. Farrell and Mr. Head. The policy discussion ended at 9:55 a.m.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------

After approving the following resolution, the Board resumed its meeting, in Executive Session, at 10:00 a.m.:

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss fund-raising strategy and consult with legal counsel on a personnel matter as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(1), (7), and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

The meeting in Executive Session ended at 11:20 a.m., and the Board adopted the following resolution certifying that its discussions in Executive Session had been conducted in accordance with the exemptions permitted by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act.

Mr. Rector, I move that we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member’s knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

FINAL SESSION
-------------

The Board resumed, in Open Session, at 11:25 a.m., and approved the following resolutions:

APPROVAL OF THE REAPPOINTMENT OF EUGENE V. FIFE TO THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors may appoint up to four public members of the Medical Center Operating Board, with initial terms not to exceed four years, with the possibility of reappointment for an additional term; and

WHEREAS, the term of Eugene V. Fife of Charlottesville expires July 1, 2004, and the Board of Visitors desires to reappoint Mr. Fife to serve for an additional two year term;

RESOLVED, Eugene V. Fife is appointed to the Medical Center Operating Board as a public member for the period July 1, 2004, through June 30, 2006.

APPROVAL OF INTENT TO ISSUE BONDS FOR CAPITAL PROJECTS
------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University intends to undertake the following capital projects with bond financing as a funding source:

WHEREAS, the United States Department of the Treasury has promulgated final regulations in Section l.l50-2 of the Treasury Regulations governing when the allocation of bond proceeds to reimburse expenditures previously made by a borrower shall be treated as an expenditure of the bond proceeds; and

WHEREAS, the Regulations require a declaration of official intent by a borrower to provide evidence that the borrower intended to reimburse such expenditures with proceeds of its bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia desires to make such a declaration of official intent as required by the Regulations; and

WHEREAS, the University may be required to provide shortterm financing to the projects prior to issuing long-term debt

in order to implement an efficient and timely construction schedule; and

WHEREAS, the University has funding mechanisms to accommodate short-term financing needs, defined as a period of less than sixty months; and

WHEREAS, the authority for the University to enter into financing arrangements exceeding sixty months in maturity for the projects listed is not included in this resolution; and

WHEREAS, if the University arranges short-term financing for a particular project, and if the project is not ultimately completed, or if the project utilizes funding sources other than bonds, then the appropriate school or unit remains responsible for refunding the short-term obligation;

RESOLVED that, pursuant to the terms of the Treasury Regulations, the University of Virginia declares its intent to reimburse expenditures in accordance with the following:

RESOLVED FURTHER that these enumerated projects are separate enterprises independent of one another, and that the authorization for funding relates to each individually; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that funds may be borrowed for the projects on a short-term basis, but only if the following conditions are met:

APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VIRGINIA AMBULATORY SURGERY CENTER
-----------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board finds it to be in the best interest of the University of Virginia and its Medical Center for the ambulatory surgery center known as the Virginia Ambulatory Surgery Center to become an instrumentality of the Medical Center and be operated and controlled by the Medical Center;

RESOLVED that the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center be authorized to negotiate to arrange for the Virginia Ambulatory Surgery Center to become an instrumentality of the Medical Center and be operated and controlled by the Medical Center, including the leasing and acquisition of real estate as deemed necessary or appropriate by the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer, and to recommend such transactions to the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University for approval; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University be authorized, with the concurrence of the Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board and the Chair of the Finance Committee, to approve and execute contracts and other documents, and to take such other actions as he deems necessary and appropriate to consummate the foregoing.

APPROVAL OF THE 2004-2005 OPERATING BUDGET FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
--------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the 2004-2005 Operating Budget for the Academic Division is approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that for determining market levels for the faculty compensation plan previously adopted by the Board of Visitors, compensation ranking of 15th-19th among AAU institutions be established as the target ranking to be achieved by the University by 2006-2007.

APPROVAL OF THE 2004-2005 OPERATING BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the 2004-2005 Operating Budget for The University of Virginia’s College at Wise is approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL OF THE 2004-2005 OPERATING AND CAPITAL BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the 2004-2005 Operating and Capital Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center is approved, as recommended by the President, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Medical Center Operating Board.

APPROVAL OF PRATT FUND DISTRIBUTION FOR 2004-2005
-------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the budget for the expenditure of funds from the Estate of John Lee Pratt be approved to supplement appropriations made by the Commonwealth of Virginia for the School of Medicine and Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics in the College of Arts and Sciences. The normal allocations, not to exceed $2.6 million for 2004- 2005, are suggested by the department chairs and recommended by the dean of each school. The special distributions are not to exceed $663,183 for 2004-2005. To the extent the annual income from the endowment is not adequate to meet the recommended distribution, the principal of the endowment will be disinvested to provide funds for the approved budgets.

APPROVAL TO ISSUE COMFORT LETTERS FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FOUNDATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia requested that the University of Virginia Foundation repay $18 million in noninterest bearing debt, and the Foundation has repaid the University the full amount of the debt; and

WHEREAS, the Foundation has borrowed on its line of credit from external lenders in order to repay this amount to the University, and now must find a more permanent solution to placing the debt before the expiration of this line of credit extension on June 30, 2004; and

WHEREAS, banks have offered favorable borrowing options with a comfort letter from the University that does not establish any University exposure to the bank, or guarantee the borrower’s obligations to the bank or the borrower’s liquidity; and

WHEREAS, the resolution approved by the Board of Visitors at the January 2001 meeting pertaining to comfort letters does not allow the University to sign a comfort letter for a credit facility that extends over more than two years;

RESOLVED that the January 2001 resolution entitled “University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation Properties” is rescinded; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to enter into comfort letters and other related documents reviewed by the General Counsel for compliance with state laws restricting assumption of debt and lending of state credit, provided such comfort letters and related documents are limited to a duration of not more than five years with respect to private financing secured by the University of Virginia Foundation and provided further the terms thereof do not bind nor legally obligate the University to assume, guarantee or pay the financial indebtedness of the Foundation.

ACQUISITION OF ASSETS OF LYNCHBURG NEPHROLOGY DIALYSIS, INC.
------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Finance Committee finds it to be in the best interest of the University of Virginia and its Medical Center to acquire the assets of Lynchburg Nephrology Dialysis, Inc., and to establish outpatient dialysis facilities in Lynchburg and Amherst;

RESOLVED that the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center be authorized to negotiate the purchase of the assets of Lynchburg Nephrology Dialysis, Inc., to establish outpatient dialysis facilities and to lease or acquire real estate, as he deems necessary or appropriate, and to recommend such transactions to the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University for approval; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University be authorized, with the concurrence of the Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board and the Chair of the Finance Committee, to approve and execute contracts and other documents, and to take such other actions as he deems necessary and appropriate to consummate the foregoing.

APPROVAL OF AMENDMENTS TO THE MEDICAL CENTER’S EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS RELATING TO THE TAKEOVER OF VASI
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University, on behalf of its Medical Center, and the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation (“HSF”) mutually desire to amend the Articles of Incorporation of Virginia Ambulatory Surgery, Inc. (“VASI”) so that the University is the sole member effective July 1, 2004; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center would like to encourage employees who currently work at VASI as HSF employees to continue to work at VASI as Medical Center employees by providing service credit in the Medical Center’s employee benefit plans for time spent employed by VASI and/or HSF; and

WHEREAS, the benefit plans must be formally amended to accomplish the grant of service credit;

RESOLVED that in the Defined Contribution Retirement Plan for Employees of the University of Virginia Medical Center, the Flexible Spending Account Plan for the Employees of the University of Virginia Medical Center, the Health Care Reimbursement Account Plan for Employees of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the Dependent Care Reimbursement Account Plan for Employees of the University of Virginia Medical Center (hereinafter collectively known as “Plan”), service with VASI or HSF shall be treated as service with the Medical Center for purposes of determining eligibility to participate and vesting, provided however, that such service shall not be recognized to the extent that such recognition would result in a duplication of benefits; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer be authorized to execute Plan amendments appropriate to the goals outlined above.

INCREASE IN FAYERWEATHER HALL PROJECT BUDGET
--------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the project budget for the renovation of Fayerweather Hall be increased from $5.4million to $7.7million.

APPROVAL OF THE AUDIT SCHEDULE
------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Audit Schedule for Fiscal Year 2004-2005 is approved as recommended by the Audit & Compliance Committee.

APPROVAL OF REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE BOARD
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Ms. Marcia Gilliam, Messrs. Don Green, H. Ronnie Montgomery, Ford C. Quillen, and Henry Winkler are reappointed to the Board of The University of Virginia's College at Wise, for a term ending June 30, 2008, in accordance with the terms of its bylaws.

APPROVAL TO ESTABLISH THE SAMUEL BRALEY GRAY PROFESSORSHIP IN MATHEMATICS EDUCATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, A. Vincent Shea, a native of Richmond and an alumnus of the University, was a member of the faculty from 1936 until his retirement in 1982; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Shea served the University in a number of significant ways, having been Vice President for Business and Finance and a valued advisor to three Presidents of this institution; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Shea and his wife, the late Eleanor Gray Shea, were generous and almost always anonymous benefactors of the University; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Shea established a trust to create a professorship in the Curry School of Education, to be named for Mrs. Shea’s father, with the aim of encouraging excellence in the instruction of mathematics in the schools of Virginia; and

WHEREAS, it was Mr. Shea’s wish that his gift be anonymous, at least during his lifetime; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Shea died on May 18, 2002;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Samuel Braley Gray Professorship in Mathematics Education, to be held in the Curry School of Education; in so doing, the Board once again honors the memory of A. Vincent Shea and his love of, and devotion to, the University of Virginia.

APPROVAL TO ESTABLISH THE UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, United Technologies Corporation, under the leadership of George David, a 1967 alumnus of the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, has given $1 million for the establishment of a professorship in the Darden School; and

WHEREAS, United Technologies’ gift has been matched by the Batten Family Leadership Challenge;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the United Technologies Corporation Professorship in Business Administration, to be held in the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, and expresses its appreciation to United Technologies Corporation, as well as to the Batten Family Leadership Challenge, for their generosity which makes this chair possible;

RESOLVED FURTHER the Board thanks George David for his leadership in encouraging this gift and for his untiring support of the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration.

APPROVAL OF THE NAMING OF DUFFY BOULEVARD AT THE DARDEN SCHOOL
--------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Charles G. Duffy, III, has been a very generous and supportive alumnus of the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration; and

WHEREAS, the main entrance road to the Darden School from Massie Road to Saunders Hall is presently called Darden Boulevard;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors, in recognition of the generosity of Charles G. Duffy, III, renames Darden Boulevard as Duffy Boulevard and thanks Mr. Duffy for his continuing support and interest in the Darden School.

APPROVAL OF THE COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE
-----------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Compliance Schedule for the period July 1, 2004, through June 30, 2005, as presented by the Corporate Compliance Officer, is approved as recommended by the Audit & Compliance Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-----------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period March 1, 2004, through April 30, 2004, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit & Compliance Committee.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Election of Chairholders (b) Special Salary Action of Chairholder (c) Retirement of Chairholder (d) Election of Professor Emeritus PROMOTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTSAPPOINTMENTSRE-APPOINTMENTSELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITADEATHS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirements were announced:

The following appointments were announced:

The following re-appointments were announced:

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Professor Emerita:

The following deaths were announced:

APPROVAL OF PROGRAMS AND INITIATIVES MADE BY THE ALUMNI RELATIONS TASK FORCE AND CREATION OF WORKING GROUP TO STUDY TASK FORCE RECOMMENDATIONS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED, the Board endorses the programs and initiatives made by the Alumni Relations Task Force, and thanks and commends the Task Force for its work; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Board endorses the creation of a working group, to be named by the Chair of the External Affairs Committee, to study the overall recommendations made by the Alumni Relations Task Force.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION TO THE PRESIDENT’S COMMISSION ON DIVERSITY
---------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors at its meeting on June 11, 2004, heard a preliminary report from Ms. Davis and Mr. Smith, the co-chairs of the President’s Commission on Diversity, on the findings of the Commission; and

WHEREAS, the Commission will give its final report at the beginning of the fall semester; and

WHEREAS, the Commission’s preliminary report was received with great interest by the Board and stimulated lively and productive discussion;

RESOLVED, the Board salutes President Casteen’s vision and leadership in appointing the Commission, and commends the Commission for its work which clearly will be of lasting and important value to the University. The Board encourages the Commission to continue to be bold in its initiatives, and looks forward to receiving its final report and to working toward the implementation of the Commission’s recommendations.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION ON RAYNELL GOODMAN LANTOR
---------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Raynell Goodman Lantor was born in Norfolk and raised in Hopewell, but lived for many years in South Boston; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Lantor was an alumna of Mary Washington College; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Lantor was a member of many boards and commissions, both state and local, and served as Mayor of South Boston; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Lantor was appointed to the Board of Visitors in 1958 by Governor Almond and served with distinction for two terms, until 1966; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Lantor died in South Boston on June 8, 2004;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors notes with sorrow the passing of Raynell Goodman Lantor, expresses appreciation for her devoted service to the Board, to the University of Virginia, and to the Commonwealth, and extends its deepest sympathy to her family.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 11:35 a.m.

The following actions were taken by committees of the Board of Visitors between the April and June meetings of the full Board. These resolutions do not require action by the full Board, but are listed below as a matter of record:

MEETING OF THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD,
----------------------------------------------

The Medical Center Operating Board met on May 3, 2004, and approved the following resolutions. The full text of these is listed in Attachment B to these Minutes. Credentialing and Recredentialing of Clinical StaffApproval of Temporary Delegation of Authority Regarding Credentialing ActionsResolution Commending George A. Beller, M.D.

ACTIONS OF THE BOARD OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY (UVIMCO)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company, May 19, 2004 – Confirmed Commitment to Golden Gate Capital Investment Fund II, L.P. and II-A, L.P. Confirmed Commitment to H.I.G. Bayside Opportunity Fund, L.P.Approved Investment in Children’s Investment FundRetention of KPMG as Auditors (see Attachment C)Approved UVIMCO Resolution on Organizational Documents (see Attachment C)Approved UVIMCO Valuation Policy (see Attachment C)

BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE, May 25, 2004
---------------------------------------------

Approval of Schematic Design for the Studio Art Building (see Attachment D)

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: June 11-12, 2004CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session – as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia – only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration in closed session.

ATTACHMENT ABOARD COMMITTEE LISTATTACHMENT ACOMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA April 2004
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AUDIT & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Georgia M. Willis, Chair

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Don R. Pippin

Terence P. Ross

Warren M. Thompson

BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE

Mark J. Kington, Chair

Thomas F. Farrell, II

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

Susan Y. Dorsey

Lewis F. Payne

Terence P. Ross

Thomas A. Saunders, III

EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEE

Don R. Pippin, Chair

Susan Y. Dorsey

James W. Head

L.F. Payne

Terence P. Ross

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr.

John O. Wynne

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Chair

Thomas F. Farrell, II

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

Mark J. Kington

Terence P. Ross

Thomas A. Saunders, III

EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE

W. Heywood Fralin, Chair

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Glynn D. Key

Lewis F. Payne

Thomas A. Saunders, III

BOARD COMMITTEES - continued

FINANCE COMMITTEE

Thomas A. Saunders, III, Chair

Thomas F. Farrell, II

W. Heywood Fralin

Mark J. Kington

Warren M. Thompson

Georgia M. Willis

John O. Wynne

MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., Chair

H. Christopher Alexander, III

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

Eugene V. Fife

Lewis F. Payne

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

Thomas A. Saunders, III

Katherine L. Smallwood, M.D.

Edward J. Stemmler, M.D.

Ex Officio Advisory Members:

George A. Beller, M.D.

Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D.

R. Edward Howell

Leonard W. Sandridge

STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEE

Thomas F. Farrell, II, Chair

Susan Y. Dorsey

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

W. Heywood Fralin

James W. Head

Glynn D. Key

Don R. Pippin

Warren M. Thompson

Georgia M. Willis

COMMITTEE ON THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE

William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Chair

Thomas F. Farrell, II

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Don R. Pippin

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON DIVERSITY

Warren M. Thompson, Chair

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

James W. Head

Glynn D. Key

Lewis F. Payne

Georgia M. Willis

John O. Wynne

BOARD COMMITTEES - continued

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY

John O. Wynne, Chair

A. Macdonald Caputo

Peter F. Dolan

Christine P. Gustafson

Mark J. Kington

Leonard W. Sandridge

Thomas A. Saunders, III

Matthew G. Thompson

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Ex Officio

Thomas F. Farrell, II, Ex Officio

AUDIT & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEEGeorgia M. Willis, Chair G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr. Don R. Pippin Terence P. Ross Warren M. Thompson BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEMark J. Kington, Chair Thomas F. Farrell, II William G. Crutchfield, Jr. Susan Y. Dorsey Lewis F. Payne Terence P. Ross Thomas A. Saunders, III EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEDon R. Pippin, Chair Susan Y. Dorsey James W. Head L.F. Payne Terence P. Ross E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr. John O. Wynne EXECUTIVE COMMITTEEGordon F. Rainey, Jr., Chair Thomas F. Farrell, II William G. Crutchfield, Jr. Mark J. Kington Terence P. Ross Thomas A. Saunders, III EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEEW. Heywood Fralin, Chair G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr. Glynn D. Key Lewis F. Payne Thomas A. Saunders, III BOARD COMMITTEES - continuedFINANCE COMMITTEEThomas A. Saunders, III, Chair Thomas F. Farrell, II W. Heywood Fralin Mark J. Kington Warren M. Thompson Georgia M. Willis John O. Wynne MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARDE. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., Chair H. Christopher Alexander, III William G. Crutchfield, Jr. Eugene V. Fife Lewis F. Payne Gordon F. Rainey, Jr. Thomas A. Saunders, III Katherine L. Smallwood, M.D. Edward J. Stemmler, M.D. Ex Officio Advisory Members: George A. Beller, M.D. Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D. R. Edward Howell Leonard W. Sandridge STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEThomas F. Farrell, II, Chair Susan Y. Dorsey G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr. W. Heywood Fralin James W. Head Glynn D. Key Don R. Pippin Warren M. Thompson Georgia M. Willis COMMITTEE ON THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISEWilliam G. Crutchfield, Jr., Chair Thomas F. Farrell, II G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr. Don R. Pippin SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON DIVERSITYWarren M. Thompson, Chair G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr. James W. Head Glynn D. Key Lewis F. Payne Georgia M. Willis John O. Wynne BOARD COMMITTEES - continuedUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANYJohn O. Wynne, Chair A. Macdonald Caputo Peter F. Dolan Christine P. Gustafson Mark J. Kington Leonard W. Sandridge Thomas A. Saunders, III Matthew G. Thompson Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Ex OfficioThomas F. Farrell, II, Ex Officio

The Rector, Mr. Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., is an ex officio member of all committees.

ATTACHMENT BRESOLUTIONS FROM THE MEETING OF THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD May 3, 2004 ATTACHMENT BCREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS May 3, 2004 1. NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF2. REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF3. SECONDARY REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF4. STATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFF5. RESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFF6. PRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS7. RENEWAL OF PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS8. STATUS CHANGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS9. RESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSAPPROVAL OF TEMPORARY DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY REGARDING CREDENTIALING ACTIONSRESOLUTION COMMENDING GEORGE A. BELLER, M.D.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for secondary reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change in clinical privileges for the following practitioner is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status changes in privileges of the following Allied Health Professional is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board has the authority and responsibility for appointing and reappointing clinicians to the Clinical Staff of the Medical Center, as well as for granting appropriate clinical privileges to such clinicians and for granting appropriate clinical privileges to Allied Health Professionals and certain other healthcare practitioners to practice within the Medical Center; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board will not meet between May and September 2004;

RESOLVED, the Medical Center Operating Board delegates to its Chair the authority to appoint and reappoint clinicians to the Clinical Staff of the Medical Center, and to grant appropriate clinical privileges to such clinicians and to grant appropriate clinical privileges to Allied Health Professionals and certain other healthcare practitioners to practice within the Medical Center as recommended to him by the Credentials Committee and the Clinical Staff Executive Committee from their May, June and July 2004 meetings; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that all such authority delegated to the Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board shall revert to the Medical Center Operating Board immediately upon the conclusion

WHEREAS, George A. Beller, a native of New York, took his undergraduate degree from Dartmouth College and his M.D. from the University of Virginia in 1968; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Beller, after his residency, followed by distinguished fellowships and appointments at several institutions of national prominence, returned to the University to join the faculty of the School of Medicine; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Beller became Chair of the Division of Cardiology in 1977; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Beller has held a number of other positions of responsibility at the University, including the presidency of the Clinical Staff of the Medical Center and membership on the Medical Center Operating Board; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Beller has rendered invaluable leadership and service not only to the Medical Center and the School of Medicine, but to the University as a whole and to the community surrounding the University; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Beller retired as Chief of Cardiology on April 1, 2004, and will retire as a member of the Medical Center Operating Board, President of the Clinical Staff and Chair of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee on June 30, 2004;

RESOLVED, the Medical Center Operating Board salutes its friend and colleague, George A. Beller, M.D., and expresses its profound gratitude for his service and devotion to the University of Virginia.

ATTACHMENT CRESOLUTIONS FROM THE MEETING OF BOARD OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANYRETENTION OF KPMG AS AUDITORSUVIMCO RESOLUTION ON ORGANIZATIONAL DOCUMENTSUVIMCO VALUATION POLICYATTACHMENTUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY VALUATION POLICYATTACHMENTUniversity of Virginia Investment Management Company Articles of IncorporationUniversity of Virginia Investment Management Company BylawsArticle I. Board of DirectorsArticle 2. Board CommitteesArticle 3. OfficersArticle 4. Conflict of Interest Transaction Article 5. Miscellaneous
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the firm KPMG be retained as auditors for the new University of Virginia Investment Management Company which will come into being on July 1, 2004.

WHEREAS, the UVIMCO Board approves in concept the organizational documents for the separate corporate entity to be formed as of July 1, 2004 or later (“New UVIMCO”), including Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, Conflict of Interests Policy, and standard form Management/Deposit Agreement; and

WHEREAS, the UVIMCO Board approves in concept a 401(k) plan for employees of New UVIMCO;

RESOLVED that the Chair of the UVIMCO Board is authorized to take the following actions:

(The documents are appended to these Minutes as an Attachment)

RESOLVED, the UVIMCO valuation policy, enumerated as follows, is approved:

2\. Purpose. The Company is a non-profit, non-stock corporation organized under Virginia law for exclusively charitable and educational purposes and more specifically to provide investment and investment management and related services to the University of Virginia (“University”), and/or to the private and independent foundations and other entities affiliated with the University operating in support of its mission. In furtherance thereof, the Company may receive, hold, distribute, manage, supervise, oversee and invest endowment, and other funds of the University of Virginia and/or of the aforesaid private foundations and other entities operating in support of the University’s mission.

In aid of such purpose(s), the Company is empowered and authorized to undertake any and all lawful activity permitted of non-stock corporations under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, provided, the Company may not undertake or financially support activity prohibited by the Internal Revenue Code with respect to its tax-exempt status, including that no substantial part of its activities shall consist of attempting to influence legislation and the Company shall not participate in, or intervene in (including the publishing or distribution of statements) any political campaign on behalf of or in opposition to any candidate for public office. No part of the net earnings of the Company shall be paid to or inure to the benefit of any director or officer of the Company or any other individual, other than reasonable compensation as may be authorized by the Board of Directors to officers and employees for personal services rendered.

5\. Board of Directors. The initial Board of Directors shall consist of eleven directors, three of whom shall be appointed by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia upon the recommendation of the Rector and one appointed by the University of Virginia President, with the balance (initially, seven directors) appointed by the Board of Directors; provided the initial appointments of the said seven directors shall be made by the initial Board of Directors composed of the four directors appointed by the Board of Visitors and the President of the University of Virginia. The number of directors may be increased or decreased as set forth in the Bylaws of the Company. Provided that there shall not be less than (9) or more than (13) directors. At all times, the number of directors appointed by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia and the University of Virginia President shall constitute less than one-half of the total number of directors.

Terms of appointment are for three years except initial appointments may be staggered to such lesser period as the appointing authority may designate, and except the appointee of the President of the University of Virginia shall serve a term of one year or less but without limit on reappointment. No director appointed by the Board of Directors or the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia may serve more than three successive three-year terms; however, in the event the Board of Directors appoints a director to also serve in the dual role of chief executive or chief investment officer for the Company, with approval of the Board of Directors, the director serving in such dual capacity is eligible to serve on the Board of Directors for an additional period beyond three successive terms, such additional period not to exceed the duration of such dual service. Appointments to fill vacancies shall be made by the appointing authority for the unexpired term, with eligibility for reappointment by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia or the Board of Directors to no more than three successive three-year terms (subject to extension in the event of dual service as above provided.). The appointing authority shall have the right to remove its appointee to the Board of Directors at any time with or without cause unless the appointment explicitly provides to the contrary.

Directors shall serve without salary or other compensation in connection with services provided in such capacity, except for reimbursement of authorized expenses incurred on behalf of the Company or compensation as may be approved by the Board of Directors in connection with service to the Company as its chief executive officer or other corporate officer.

Notice thereof may be provided by personal delivery, or by mailing or faxing to the business or home address on record with the Company, or any other method permitted by law. Notice may also be sent electronically to such address designated by a director, which shall be deemed made on the date of transmission from the Company. Notice of the meeting location and time, and the agenda, shall be provided at least twenty four (24) hours in advance of the meeting; except where greater notice is required in the articles or bylaws or by applicable law as, for example, with respect to proposed revisions to the articles or bylaws. Notice may be waived in writing by a director which waiver shall be included in the minutes, however, attendance at or participation in a meeting waives any omission or defect in notification unless the director promptly upon arrival objects to the meeting and does not thereafter vote. The meeting agenda may be added or changed with approval of two-thirds of the directors participating at the meeting, provided a quorum exists.

The Chair shall preside at meetings of the Board of Directors. A director designated by the Chair shall preside in the Chair’s absence.

In any transaction with the Company in which a director has a direct or indirect personal interest, as those terms are defined in the Virginia Nonstock Corporation Act at the time of such transaction, such director shall advise the other directors of the direct or indirect personal interest and abstain from voting on such transaction.

ATTACHMENT DRESOLUTION FROM THE MEETING OF BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE MAY 25, 2004 APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE STUDIO ART BUILDING
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated May 25, 2004, and prepared by Schwartz/Silver Architects, Inc., of Boston, Massachusetts, for the Studio Art Building is approved for further development and construction.