 TEI to HTML

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS April 15, 2004
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors met, in Open Session, in the Dome Room of the Rotunda at 4:30 p.m., Thursday, April 15, 2004, to vote on the establishment of a professorship and the naming of the Grounds of the Darden School. Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector, presided. William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., W. Heywood Fralin, Ms. Glynn D. Key, Mark J. Kington, Lewis F. Payne, Don R. Pippin, Thomas A. Saunders, III, Warren M. Thompson, Ms. Georgia M. Willis, John O. Wynne, and John R.M. Rodney were present.

James W. Head, the Student Member-elect, also was present.

Present as well were John T. Casteen, II, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Robert D. Sweeney and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Board adopted the following resolution establishing the MasterCard Professorship in Business Administration:

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MASTERCARD PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, MasterCard International, Inc., at the instigation of H. Eugene Lockhart, Jr., an alumnus of the University and then the President and Chief Executive Officer of MasterCard, made a generous pledge in 1996 to provide funds for a professorship at the University; and

WHEREAS, the pledge has been fulfilled and subsequently augmented by funds from the Batten Family Challenge; and

WHEREAS, it is the intent of MasterCard that the professorship be based in the Darden School and that it emphasize entrepreneurial leadership;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the MasterCard Professorship in Business Administration, to be held in the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, and expresses its appreciation to H. Eugene Lockhart, Jr., MasterCard International, Inc., and the Batten Family Challenge for their generosity and support.

The Board next adopted the following resolution naming the Grounds of the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration in honor of William H. Goodwin, Jr.:

NAMING OF THE WILLIAM H. GOODWIN, JR., GROUNDS AT THE DARDEN SCHOOL
-------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, William H. Goodwin, Jr., of Richmond, a distinguished alumnus of the Darden School and a recent and devoted Member of the Board of Visitors, and his wife, Alice T. Goodwin, have been extraordinarily generous friends of the Darden School; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Goodwin has been principally involved in the planning and development of the present Darden buildings and grounds; and

WHEREAS, the University Names Committee has proposed that the grounds of the Darden School be named in honor of Mr. Goodwin;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors names the grounds of the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration the William H. Goodwin, Jr., Grounds, and in so doing thanks Mr. Goodwin, its friend and former colleague, for his devotion and service to the Darden School, to the Board of Visitors, and to the University of Virginia.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 4:40 p.m.