 TEI to HTML

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS APRIL 1-2, 2005
------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Approval of the Minutes of the February 4th Board Meeting

6858

Resolution for Addition to the Agenda

6858

Setting of Meeting Dates for 2006

6859

Resolution on Gifts and Grants

6862

Naming of the Barry Parkhill Practice Court

6864

Naming of the Byrd Seminar Room

6864

Road Namings

6864

Approval of a Permanent Access Easement at the Fan Mountain Observatory

6869

Approval of a Permanent Easement to Virginia Electric and Power Company for a Power Line on University Property Adjacent to the North Grounds Connector

6869

Approval of a Permanent Easement to the City of Charlottesville for a Natural Gas Line on Stillfried Lane Located at the Kluge Children’s Rehabilitation Center

6870

Approval of a Permanent Easement to the Albemarle County Service Authority for Water and Sewer Lines On Stillfried Lane Located at the Kluge Children’s Rehabilitation Center

6870

Approval of Increase in Faculty and Staff Housing Rates for 2005-2006

6871

Approval of Contract Rates for Dining Services for 2005-2006 for the Academic Division and The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

6873

Approval of Six-Year Capital Outlay Plan

6874

PAGE

Approval of Revised Enrollment Projections

6874

Approval of Endowment Spending Policy

6875

Reaffirmation of Housing Requirements for All First-Year Students and Planning for the Replacement of Alderman Road Residences

6875

Memorial Resolution on Dr. J. Thomas Hulvey

6876

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

6877

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Election of Chairholders

6879

Special Salary Action of Chairholders

6880

Retirement of Chairholders

6880

Special Salary Actions

6881

Correction to the Salary Action for Dr. Erol Baskurt

6883

Resignations

6883

Retirements

6884

Correction to the Retirement of Ms. Natalie O. Kononenko

6885

Appointments

6885

Re-Appointments

6885

Election of Professors Emeriti

6886

Correction to the Emeritus Action for Ms. Natalie O. Kononenko

6887

Election of Associate Professors Emeriti

6887

Deaths

6887

The University of Virginia’s College at Wise Re-Appointment

6887

Resolution Commending James Watson Head

6888

Resolutions Adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee: Approval of Schematic Design for the College at Wise Drama Building Addition and Renovation

6888

Approval of Architect Selection for the School of Nursing Building

6889

Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the New Education School Building

6889

PAGEApproval of the Minutes of the February 4th Board Meeting 6858Resolution for Addition to the Agenda6858Setting of Meeting Dates for 2006 6859 Resolution on Gifts and Grants6862Naming of the Barry Parkhill Practice Court6864Naming of the Byrd Seminar Room6864Road Namings6864Approval of a Permanent Access Easement at the Fan Mountain Observatory 6869Approval of a Permanent Easement to Virginia Electric and Power Company for a Power Line on University Property Adjacent to the North Grounds Connector6869Approval of a Permanent Easement to the City of Charlottesville for a Natural Gas Line on Stillfried Lane Located at the Kluge Children’s Rehabilitation Center6870Approval of a Permanent Easement to the Albemarle County Service Authority for Water and Sewer Lines On Stillfried Lane Located at the Kluge Children’s Rehabilitation Center6870Approval of Increase in Faculty and Staff Housing Rates for 2005-20066871Approval of Contract Rates for Dining Services for 2005-2006 for the Academic Division and The University of Virginia’s College at Wise6873Approval of Six-Year Capital Outlay Plan6874 PAGEApproval of Revised Enrollment Projections6874Approval of Endowment Spending Policy6875Reaffirmation of Housing Requirements for All First-Year Students and Planning for the Replacement of Alderman Road Residences6875Memorial Resolution on Dr. J. Thomas Hulvey6876Faculty Personnel ActionsElections6877Actions Relating to ChairholdersElection of Chairholders6879Special Salary Action of Chairholders6880Retirement of Chairholders6880Special Salary Actions6881Correction to the Salary Action for Dr. Erol Baskurt6883Resignations6883Retirements6884Correction to the Retirement of Ms. Natalie O. Kononenko6885Appointments6885Re-Appointments6885Election of Professors Emeriti6886Correction to the Emeritus Action for Ms. Natalie O. Kononenko6887Election of Associate Professors Emeriti6887Deaths6887The University of Virginia’s College at Wise Re-Appointment6887Resolution Commending James Watson Head6888Resolutions Adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee: Approval of Schematic Design for the College at Wise Drama Building Addition and Renovation 6888Approval of Architect Selection for the School of Nursing Building6889Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the New Education School Building 6889

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS April 1-2, 2005
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 9:55 a.m., Friday, April 1, 2005, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector, presided. Thomas F. Farrell, II, A. Macdonald Caputo, Alan A. Diamonstein, Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., W. Heywood Fralin, Ms. Glynn D. Key, Mark J. Kington, Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr. Lewis F. Payne, Don R. Pippin, Warren M. Thompson, E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., Ms. Georgia M. Willis, John O. Wynne, and James W. Head were present.

Ms. Catherine S. Neale, the Student Member-elect, was present as well.

Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D., R. Edward Howell, Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Ms. Yoke San L. Reynolds, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Rector opened the meeting and asked Ms. Key to lead the Pledge of Allegiance.

INTRODUCTION OF NEW MEMBERS
---------------------------

The Rector introduced the new Members of the Board, A. Macdonald Caputo of Greenwich, Connecticut, Alan A. Diamonstein of Newport News, and Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr., of Norfolk. He also introduced Ms. Catherine S. Neale of Richmond, the Student Member-elect.

APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE FEBRUARY 4TH BOARD MEETING
---------------------------------------------------------

The Rector called for a motion to approve the Minutes of the last meeting of the full Board, the meeting of February 4.

On motion, the Board passed a resolution approving the Minutes.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND APPOINTMENTS TO THE STANDING COMMITTEES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that he would delay proposing nominees to the Executive Committee, as well as making appointments to the standing Committees, until several weeks after the meeting. He explained that he wanted the new Members to have a better sense of the operations of the Board before making appointments. As there are vacancies in the Chairmanships of two Committees – Finance and the Committee on The University of Virginia’s College at Wise – he asked Mr. Farrell to serve as the Temporary Chair of Finance and Mr. Pippin to serve as the Temporary Chair of the Wise Committee.

RESOLUTION FOR ADDITION TO THE AGENDA
-------------------------------------

Pursuant to the conditions set forth in the Board Manual, the Rector asked for a resolution permitting the consideration of addenda to the published Agenda.

On motion, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the addition of addenda to the Agenda and their consideration by the Board.

THE BOARD RETREAT
-----------------

The Rector announced that the Board Retreat, set for July 29 and 30, will be held at Wintergreen in Nelson County.

SETTING OF MEETING DATES FOR 2006
---------------------------------

Thursday, Friday, Saturday February 2, 3, and 4

at Charlottesville

Thursday, Friday, Saturday April 6, 7, and 8

at Charlottesville

Thursday, Friday, Saturday June 8, 9, and 10

at Charlottesville

RETREAT Friday and Saturday July 28 and 29

to be determined

Thursday, Friday, Saturday October 5, 6, and 7

at Charlottesville

The Rector called for a resolution setting the Board meeting dates for 2006; the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, that the dates for meetings of the Board of Visitors in 2006 are approved as follows:

The Rector also asked the Board Office to poll Members about possible meeting dates for 2007 and said that the 2007 schedule would be proposed at the June Board meeting.

DEATH OF DR. J. THOMAS HULVEY
-----------------------------

The Rector announced the death of Dr. J. Thomas Hulvey of Abingdon, Member of the Board of Visitors from 1990 to 1994, on March 7th. He noted that the Board would be asked to consider a memorial resolution at the final session of the Board meeting on April 2nd

The Rector then asked the President to give his customary report.

PRESIDENT’S REPORTRESTRUCTURINGGRADUATE SCHOOL RANKINGSTHE VIRGINIA QUARTERLY REVIEWUPDATE ON SEARCHESGIFTS AND GRANTS REPORT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President welcomed the three new Members and said that a few weeks before, he had the pleasure of telephoning Catherine Neale with the good news of her selection as a Truman Scholar. He described the criteria for the Truman and said he understood that Ms. Neale plans a career in public higher education, both as a law school instructor and as a college administrator and eventually hopes to become a university president.

He then reviewed the legislation on restructuring, noting that the Governor has submitted a substitute bill which will be considered by the General Assembly on April 6. The President outlined the Governor’s modifications and said his “clarifications provide a sound framework.” Work on this legislation throughout the General Assembly Session has been bipartisan, and the support of the Governor and the Legislature for higher education has been very gratifying and is important to the economic future of Virginia.

The President reported on the latest U.S. News & World Report graduate school rankings, released today. The Law School ranks 8th, tied with the University of Michigan but up from 9th last year. In the School of Medicine, the research ranking is 26th, down one from last year; Medicine’s goal is to be ranked 20th in the country. Darden is judged 14th best, down from 12th last year. The Curry School ranks 22nd – tied with the University of Maryland – down from 20th last year. The School of Engineering is 34th, tied with North Carolina State University, the Renssalaer Polytechnic Institute and Washington University in St. Louis; this is an improvement over last year’s ranking as 42nd.

The English Department has an overall ranking of 12th, in a tie with Duke University and the University of Michigan; English departments were not ranked last year. The Department’s programs in African-American literature, American literature after 1865, American literature before 1865, and 18th through 20th century British literature, were rated as being among the ten best in the country. The History Department ranks 19th, in a tie with Indiana University and the University of Texas; History departments were not ranked last year.

The Virginia Quarterly Review has been nominated in two categories of the American Society of Magazine Editors’ Annual National Magazine Awards – in fiction and in general excellence for publications with circulations of under 100,000. To be nominated in fiction is particularly impressive – the other finalists this year in this category are The Atlantic Monthly, Harper’s, The New Yorker, and The Paris Review.

The President gave a brief update on current searches: Chief Officer for Diversity and Equity, Dean of the Darden School, Dean of the School of Engineering, Chancellor at Wise, and the Equal Opportunity Director.

The President gave his customary report on Gifts and Grants.

Private giving to the University and its related foundations in the current fiscal year, through February 28th, is $130.2million, an increase of $17.2million or 15% over the same period last year.

Among the significant gifts received since the February meeting of the Board are a $1.2million increase in a grant to the Law School by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, a $915,000 pledge payment from Mrs. Ann Lee Saunders Brown, and a $700,000 pledge payment from the Peter B. & Adeline W. Ruffin Foundation. Two significant new pledges are an anonymous $3.6million pledge for the unrestricted use of the Athletic Department, and $1million from Mr. Mansoor Ijaz to the College Foundation for an endowed graduate fellowship.

The Rector asked for a resolution accepting the President’s Gifts and Grants Report, and the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLUTION ON GIFTS AND GRANTS
------------------------------

RESOLVED, the Gifts and Grants Report for the period December 1, 2004 to February 28, 2005, is accepted.

COMPLIANCE BRIEFING
-------------------

After a short recess, the Board was briefed by James W. Booz, Associate Athletics Director for Compliance, on the restrictions on involvement by Board Members in athletics.

REPORTS
-------

The Board heard brief reports from each of the Committee Chairs on the work of their respective Committees.

The Board recessed at 11:30 a.m. for lunch.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------

The Board reconvened after lunch and, after adopting the following motions, went into Executive Session at 1:20 p.m.

All Members present at the morning session were in attendance.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and/or approving personnel actions involving the appointment, reappointment, nomination, evaluation, compensation, and resignation of University officers and employees as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors convene in Executive Session to consult with General Counsel regarding his privileged legal report to the Board on pending and anticipated litigation affecting the University; and such other matters as may arise with respect to University operations requiring the provision of legal advice and counsel, as provided for in Section 2.2- 3711 (A)(7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors convene in Executive Session to consult with legal counsel on the applicable law and review of the performance of University personnel responsible for diversity procurement, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1),(7), and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board recessed at 3:30 p.m., after adopting a resolution certifying that its discussions in Executive Session had been conducted in accord with the exemptions granted by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, and moved to the Dome Room of the Rotunda.

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member’s knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

NAMINGS:THE BARRY PARKHILL PRACTICE COURTBYRD SEMINAR ROOMROAD NAMINGS
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board resumed its meeting in the Dome Room at 3:45 and heard reports on the naming of the Barry Parkhill Practice Court and the Byrd Seminar Room, as well as an ex-post facto report on the naming of a number of streets and roadways on the Grounds of the University.

The Barry Parkhill Practice Court is the men’s practice court in the new John Paul Jones Arena, on the lower level and at the east end. It is named for Barry L. Parkhill (B.S.’73), one of the greatest basketball players in the history of the University.

The Byrd Seminar Room is on the top floor of the Mary and David Harrison Institute for American History, Literature, and Culture and the Albert and Shirley Small Collections Library. The name honors the Byrd family of Winchester. Harry F. Byrd, Jr., United States Senator from Virginia, 1965-1983, has been a generous benefactor of the Library, both in monetary gifts and from the point of view of the immensely valuable collections of his own political papers and those of his father, the late Senator Harry F. Byrd, Sr., which he has presented to the Library.

There follows a listing of roads and streets on the Grounds of the University, named, mostly, in 1994 and not previously reported to the Board:

The following roads are in the old Blue Ridge Hospital complex below Monticello; in 1994, elements of the Medical Center and the Medical School were located there:

On motion, the Board adjourned at 4:00 p.m., until the following morning.

POLICY DISCUSSION
-----------------

The Board reconvened, as the full Board, in Open Session at 9:30 a.m., on Saturday, April 2, 2005, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the Rector presiding. All Members in attendance the previous day were there, save Mr. Fitz-Hugh.

Mr. Sweeney, Senior Vice President for Development and Public Affairs, presented the topic, a discussion on an “institutional brand” for the University for use in the Capital Campaign. He then introduced Ms. Gretchen Gehrett of the firm G2 Marketing; Ms. Gehrett introduced some concepts and led a very lively discussion. No “brand” was agreed upon, but a number of suggestions were made to Ms. Gehrett and Mr. Sweeney.

The discussion ended at 10:45.

FINAL SESSION
-------------

The Board continued into the final session of the meeting and adopted the following resolutions:

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT ACCESS EASEMENT AT THE FAN MOUNTAIN OBSERVATORY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, to an adjacent property owner for access to Fan Mountain Road on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT TO VIRGINIA ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY FOR A POWER LINE ON UNIVERSITY PROPERTY ADJACENT TO THE NORTH GROUNDS CONNECTOR
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement to Virginia Electric and Power Company for a power line adjacent to the North Grounds Connector on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement and to vacate the easement for the existing power line route.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT TO THE CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE FOR A NATURAL GAS LINE ON STILLFRIED LANE LOCATED AT THE KLUGE CHILDREN’S REHABILITATION CENTER
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, to the City of Charlottesville for a natural gas line on Stillfried Lane located at the Kluge Children’s Rehabilitation Center in Albemarle County on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT TO THE ALBEMARLE COUNTY SERVICE AUTHORITY FOR WATER AND SEWER LINES ON STILLFRIED LANE LOCATED AT THE KLUGE CHILDREN’S REHABILITATION CENTER
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, to the Albemarle County Service Authority for water and sewer lines on Stillfried Lane located at the Kluge Children’s Rehabilitation Center in Albemarle County on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR 2005-2006ACADEMIC DIVISION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Properties

UtilitiesFurnished

Rents2004-05Per Month

Amountof Increase

Percent ofIncrease

Prop. Rents2005-06Per Month

UtilitiesPaid byOccupant

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom Apt. (7)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T

$593

$36

6.07%

$629

2 Bedroom Apt. (16)(UF)

WS,E,G,C,T

$718

$43

5.99%

$761

Houses (3BR) (16)(1E) (UF)

WS,C,T

$1,030

$70

6.80%

$1,100

E, G

Townhouses (3BR)(5)(UF)

WS,C,T

$1,030

$70

6.80%

$1,100

E, G

Farmhouse Apt. 1 (1BR)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T,AC

$651

$49

7.53%

$700

Farmhouse Apt. 2 (3 BR)(UF)

WS,E,G,C,T

$672

$40

5.95%

$712

Farmhouse Apt. 3 (1 BR)(F)\*

WS,E,G,C,T,AC

$560

$140

25.00%

$700

Farmhouse Apt. 4 (2 BR)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T,AC

$736

$44

5.98%

$780

\*Furnished for 2005-06

Sundry

Vyssotsky Cottage (3BR)(UF)

WS,T, AC

$825

$57

6.91%

$882

E,G

McGuffey Cottage (Eff)(UF)

WS,E,V,T,AC

$507

$32

6.31%

$539

Upper Mews (1BR)(F)

WS,E,HP,C,T,AC

$708

$22

3.11%

$730

Lower Mews (1BR)(F)

WS,E,HP,C,T,AC

$600

$36

6.00%

$636

Monroe Hill Range (1BR)(UF)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$760

$51

6.71%

$811

Brown College Apts. (2)(UF)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$669

$46

6.88%

$715

Hereford Coll. Apts. (2)(UF)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$780

$48

6.15%

$828

Hereford Coll.Princ.Res. (3BR)(UF)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$972

$58

5.97%

$1,030

102 Cresap Fac. Apt. (1BR)(F)

WS,E,G,T,HVAC,V

$725

$44

6.07%

$769

Hedge House (2BR)(F)

WS,C,T,AC

$773

$46

5.95%

$819

E,G

Orchard House (5RMS)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T,AC

$372

$26

6.99%

$398

UtilitiesFurnished

Rents2004-05Per Month

Amountof Increase

Percentof Increase

Prop. Rents2005-06Per Month

UtilitiesPaid byOccupant

118 Oakhurst, Upper (2BR)(UF)

WS,G,C

$680

$43

6.32%

$723

E,T

118 Oakhurst, Lower (2BR)(UF)

WS,G,C,AC

$680

$43

6.32%

$723

E,T

409 Valley Road, (2BR)(F)

WS,E,G,C,AC

$960

$58

6.04%

$1,018

T

411 Valley Road, (2BR)(F)

WS,E,G,C,AC

$960

$58

6.04%

$1,018

T

503 Valley Road, (1BR)(UF)

C

$544

$39

7.17%

$583

WS,E,G,T

424 MLLH, (1BR)(UF)

WS,E,G,C,HVAC,V

$693

$49

7.07%

$742

423 MLLH, (2BR)(UF)

WS,E,G,C,HVAC,V

$809

$49

6.06%

$858

Birdwood Properties

Cottage (1BR)(UF)

WS,C,T

$554

$34

6.14%

$588

E

Garage Apt.(2BR)(UF)

WS,C,T

$792

$54

6.82%

$846

E,G

Cash House (3BR)(UF)

WS,C,T,AC

$1,013

$68

6.71%

$1,081

E,G

Middleton House (4BR)(UF)

WS,C,T,AC

$1,190

$71

5.97%

$1,261

E,G

E & G Properties

Montebello (3BR/Garage)

WS,E,G,AC

$745

$39

5.23%

$784

C,T

Big Morea (4BR)

WS,E,G,AC,T

$1,042

$48

4.61%

$1,090

C

Little Morea (2BR)

WS,E,G,AC,T

$800

$34

4.25%

$834

C

Sunnyside (4BR)

WS,E,O,AC

$1,633

$66

4.04%

$1,699

C

Monroe Hill House (4BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$964

$45

4.67%

$1,009

C

Buckingham Palace (Eff)

WS,E,HP,AC,T

$357

$21

5.88%

$378

C

Pavilion I (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$878

$43

4.90%

$921

C

Pavilion II (5BR)

WS,E,HP,T,V

$650

$36

5.54%

$686

C

Pavilion III (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$878

$43

4.90%

$921

C

Pavilion IV (5BR)

WS,E,HP,T,V

$650

$36

5.54%

$686

C

Pavilion V (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$878

$43

4.90%

$921

C

Pavilion VI (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$878

$43

4.90%

$921

C

Pavilion VIII Upper (3BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$566

$34

6.01%

$600

C

Pavilion VIII Lower (1BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$298

$15

5.03%

$313

C

Pavilion IX (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$878

$43

4.90%

$921

C

Pavilion X (5BR)

WS,E,HP,T,V

$650

$36

5.54%

$686

C

Blandy Farm

Curator's House

WS

$0

$0

0.00%

$0

E,O

Green Farm House

WS

$65

$0

0.00%

$65

E,O

RESOLVED that the faculty and staff housing rates be approved as indicated, effective July 1, 2005. The Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to increase the rates to market level when a property is vacated.

Notes: In total sixteen properties (Piedmont Houses) were brought to market this budget year. The (E) designates properties that have been enhanced. The (F) designates properties that are furnished. The (UF) designates properties that are unfurnished. Utility abbreviations are as follows: WS (water, sewer), E (electric), G (gas), O (oil), HP (heating plant), HVAC (heating, ventilating, and air conditioning), AC (window air conditioning), C (cable TV), V (voice), and T (trash).

APPROVAL OF CONTRACT RATES FOR DINING SERVICES FOR 2005-2006 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISEACADEMIC DIVISION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Actual2004-2005

Amount ofIncrease

PercentIncrease

Proposed2005-2006

Regular Meal Plans (1,2)

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$2,990

$110

3.7%

$3,100

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

2,990

110

3.7%

3,100

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

2,990

110

3.7%

3,100

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $790 Plus Dollars

2,990

110

3.7%

3,100

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,550

90

3.5%

2,640

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,690

80

4.7%

1,770

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,470

70

4.8%

1,540

50 Meals per semester w/ $390 Plus Dollars

1,110

60

5.4%

1,170

Residential College/Language House Meal Plans (1,2,3)

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$3,100

$110

3.5%

$3,210

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

3,100

110

3.5%

3,210

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

3,100

110

3.5%

3,210

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $790 Plus Dollars

3,100

110

3.5%

3,210

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,660

100

3.8%

2,760

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,800

80

4.4%

1,880

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,580

70

4.4%

1,650

50 Meals per semester w/ $390 Plus Dollars

1,220

60

4.9%

1,280

Athletic Meal Plans

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$3,100

$110

3.5%

$3,210

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

3,100

110

3.5%

3,210

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

3,100

110

3.5%

3,210

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $790 Plus Dollars

3,100

110

3.5%

3,210

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,660

100

3.8%

2,760

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,800

80

4.4%

1,880

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,580

70

4.4%

1,650

Other

Law School Dining Spending Account (4)

$400

($200)

\-50.0%

$200

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE

19 Meal Plan

$2,582

$130

5.0%

$2,712

12 Meal Plan

2,322

$116

5.0%

$2,438

RESOLVED that the student contract rates for dining services be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 2005-2006 session:

(1) Plus Dollars are credited to a student's identification card and may be used in the same manner as cash at any board dining hall and/or retail operation. (2) First-year students are required to purchase a 13-, 15-, or unlimited-meal plan during their first semester. During their second semester, they may switch to a 10-meal plan with $790 Plus Dollars. (3) Some residential colleges and language houses have a dining requirement as part of their program. (4) Law School students are allowed to deposit a minimum $200 per academic year into a dining spending account.

APPROVAL OF SIX-YEAR CAPITAL OUTLAY PLAN
----------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Six-Year Capital Outlay Plan for the Academic Division, the Medical Center, and The University of Virginia’s College at Wise for the 2006-2012 period is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to make necessary revisions to the Plan prior to its submission to the state, provided the revisions do not alter in any substantive way the overall capital program as approved.

APPROVAL OF REVISED ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS
------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University’s existing enrollment plan, approved by the Board of Visitors in April 2003, must be revised to reflect projected increases in the undergraduate and graduate enrollment levels; and

WHEREAS, the Board previously discussed the University’s action plan relative to enrollment growth – to grow by 1,100 undergraduate students and 400 graduate students over the next decade; and

WHEREAS, the University is committed to serving the higher education needs of the Commonwealth of Virginia and the nation; and

WHEREAS, the revised enrollment projections for 2005-2006 through 2009-2010 were submitted to the State Council of Higher Education in Virginia on March 17, 2005;

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to develop plans with the State Council of Higher Education in Virginia which will put the University on track to increase total enrollment by 1,500 students over the next decade; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that all undergraduate growth maintain the current mix of in-state and out-of-state students.

APPROVAL OF ENDOWMENT SPENDING POLICY
-------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University’s existing endowment spending policy, approved by the Board of Visitors in April 2001, must be revised to align with reduced investment return expectations and to allow the University an opportunity to make strategic adjustments from time to time;

RESOLVED that the endowment spending policy, effective July 1, 2005, shall be as follows:

The spending policy calls for a percentage increase in the annual distribution from the endowment, unless such increase causes the distribution to fall outside a range defined as 3.5 percent on the low end and 5.5 percent on the high end of the market value of the Pooled Endowment Fund. If the distribution falls outside of this range, the Finance Committee may recommend either raising or lowering the rate of increase. The first distribution under the new policy would be made in January 2006.

For Class A shares, the annual increase is pegged to inflation, where “inflation” is defined as the Higher Education Price Index or its equivalent. It is set initially at 3.6 percent and will be reviewed in five years.

For Class B shares, the annual payout is set at the level of the June 2005 distribution, until such time that the payment has been reduced to a unit distribution identical to that of the Class A shares, from which point the annual distribution will remain the same for Class A and Class B shares.

REAFFIRMATION OF HOUSING REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL FIRST-YEAR STUDENTS AND PLANNING FOR THE REPLACEMENT OF ALDERMAN ROAD RESIDENCES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia’s educational mission extends to the University residences where undergraduate students live and the related residential programming in which they engage; and

WHEREAS, an undergraduate student’s first year is a critical time for assimilation into the University community; and

WHEREAS, having all first-year students live together is central to this process; and

WHEREAS, the Architect of the University has endorsed the continued use of the Alderman Road area as the principal location for first-year student housing and its expansion; and

WHEREAS, most of the residence halls on Alderman Road must be replaced;

RESOLVED the Board of Visitors endorses and reaffirms the requirement that all first-year students live together in University housing for the purpose of creating community and a comprehensive first-year experience; and

RESOLVED FURTHER the Board of Visitors endorses and supports planning to proceed with the replacement of the Alderman Road residences as housing for first-year students.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION ON DR. J. THOMAS HULVEY
-------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, J. Thomas Hulvey, a native of Staunton, took the M.D. from the University of Virginia in 1962; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Hulvey, after military service and a residency in orthopaedic surgery at the University, began the practice of orthopaedic surgery in Abingdon in 1969; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Hulvey attained great distinction in his profession and held teaching appointments in several institutions, including the University; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Hulvey’s excellence in his profession was recognized by his colleagues who elected him to numerous professional boards and committees, including the Presidency of the Medical Society of Virginia; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Hulvey served his state and community in many other ways, ranging from the Washington County School Board to the Barter Foundation Board of Trustees, and from being team physician to Abingdon High School to serving as Chairman of the Advisory Committee of the University of Virginia Medical Alumni Association; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Hulvey served on the Board of Visitors from 1990 to 1994; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Hulvey died in Abingdon on March 7, 2005;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors notes with profound regret the passing of J. Thomas Hulvey, remembers his selfless service and devotion to the University of Virginia, and expresses its deepest sympathy to Mrs. Hulvey and to their children, Elizabeth, Margaret, and John.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Election of Chairholders(b) Special Salary Action of Chairholders(c) Retirement of ChairholdersSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSCORRECTION TO THE SALARY ACTION FOR DR. EROL BASKURTRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTSCORRECTION TO THE RETIREMENT OF MS. NATALIE O. KONONENKOAPPOINTMENTSRE-APPOINTMENTSELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITICORRECTION TO THE EMERITUS ACTION FOR MS. NATALIE O. KONONENKOELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSORS EMERITIDEATHS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

RESOLVED that the special salary action for Dr. Erol Baskurt, Clinical Instructor in Radiology, effective September 25, 2004, at an annual salary of $150,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated February 4, 2005, be corrected to read as follows:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirements were announced:

The President announced that the retirement of Ms. Natalie W. Kononenko, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, effective June 24, 2004, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated June 10-12, 2004, be corrected to read as follows:

The following appointments were announced:

The following re-appointments were announced:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that the Emeritus action for Ms. Natalie W. Kononenko, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, effective June 24, 2004, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated June 10-12, 2004, be corrected to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Associate Professor Emeritus:

The following deaths were announced:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISERE-APPOINTMENT
----------------------------------------------------------

The following re-appointment was announced:

RESOLUTION COMMENDING JAMES WATSON HEAD
---------------------------------------

WHEREAS, James Watson Head, raised in Northern Virginia and in Washington, but of distinguished Alabama heritage, took a B.A. with High Distinction from the College in 2003; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Head had the good fortune to marry Cristin a week later; and

WHEREAS, Mr. and Mrs. Head matriculated in the School of Law in August, 2003; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Head was appointed the Student Member of the Board of Visitors in February, 2004; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Head has brought to the Board valuable insights gained through his wide circle of friends and acquaintances throughout the student body, and through the breadth of his involvement in student activities which extend from the Raven Society to the IMP Society, and from Phi Beta Kappa to the Honor Committee, to say nothing of the esteem in which he is held by his peers; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Head’s term on the Board of Visitors expires at the end of the Board meeting on April 2nd;

RESOLVED, the Board thanks Jamie Head, its friend and colleague, for his exemplary service and devotion to the University, and wishes him and Kristi every good fortune as they continue their legal studies.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE SCHOOL OF NURSING BUILDINGAPPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE COLLEGE AT WISE DRAMA BUILDING ADDITION AND RENOVATIONAPPROVAL OF CONCEPT, SITE, AND DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE NEW EDUCATION SCHOOL BUILDING
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolutions were adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on March 31, 2005; they required action only by the Committee and not by the full Board, and are listed here as a matter of record:

RESOLVED that Bowie Gridley Architects, of Washington, D.C., is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the School of Nursing Building.

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated March 31, 2005, and prepared by the Bushman Dreyfus Architects of Charlottesville, for the College at Wise Drama Building Addition and Renovation is approved for further development and construction.

RESOLVED that the concept, site, and design guidelines, dated March 31, 2005, and prepared by the Architect for the University, for the New Education School Building are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 10:55 a.m.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: April 1-2, 2005

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session – as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia – only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration in closed session.