 TEI to HTML

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS JUNE 10-11, 2005
-------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Approval of the Minutes of the April 1-2, 2005 Board Meeting

6893

2007 Board Meeting Schedule

6893

Assignment of Pavilion III

6894

Annual Meeting, 2006

6894

Acceptance of Gifts and Grants Report

6896

Approval of the Commitment to Meet the State Goals Included in the Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act

6898

Approval of the Board of Visitors to Negotiate with the Governor to Develop a Management Agreement with the Commonwealth

6900

Election of the Vice Rector

6903

George A. Beller, M.D./Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging, Inc., Distinguished Professorship in Cardiovascular Medicine

6904

Andrew P. Somlyo Distinguished Professorship in Molecular Physiology

6905

Approval of Amendment to a Permanent Access Easement at the Cavalier Electrical Substation

6907

Approval to Remove the Building at 400 Venable Lane in Charlottesville

6907

Approval to Establish a New MBA Program Format: Darden MBA for Executives, Darden Graduate School of Business Administration

6908

PAGE

Approval of New Procedure for Posting Textbook Information

6908

Approval of Intent to Issue Bonds for Capital Projects

6909

Approval of Revised Enrollment Projections

6911

Approval of Enrollment Projections at The University of Virginia's College at Wise

6912

Approval of Enrollment Projections at The University of Virginia's College at Wise as of March 31, 2005

6912

Approval of Procurement of Environmental Services for the Medical Center

6913

Approval of the Affiliation of the Jefferson Institute for Lifelong Learning as a University-Related Foundation

6913

Approval of the Audit Schedule

6914

Appointments to The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board

6914

Approval of 2005-2006 Tuition and Fees for Certain Graduate Degree Programs

6914

Approval of the 2005-2006 Operating Budget for the Academic Division

6915

Approval of the 2005-2006 Operating Budget for The University of Virginia's College at Wise

6915

Approval of the 2005-2006 Operating and Capital Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center

6915

Approval of Pratt Fund Distribution for 2005-2006

6915

Expansion of Commercial Paper Program and Issuance of General Revenue Pledge Bonds

6916

PAGE

Approval of the Finance Committee as Monitor of the Defined Contribution Retirement Plans, Authorization for the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to Undertake Certain Actions, Authorization of a Change in the Funds Available in the Defined Contribution Retirement Plans, and Authorization of a Change in the Default Investment for Employees

6923

Approval to Enter into a Joint Venture for the Off- Site Provision of Stereotactic Head and Body Radiosurgery Procedures

6926

Approval of Addition of a Public Member to the Medical Center Operating Board

6927

Extension of the Special Committee on Diversity

6927

Election of the Executive Committee

6927

Memorial Resolution on Dr. DuPont Guerry, III

6928

Approval of the Summary of Audit Findings

6928

Resolution on the Return of a Portion of a Gift to the Donor

6929

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

6930

Change in the Title of the Election of Dr. Avery J. Evans

6932

Change in the Term of the Election of Dr. Lynda T. Wells

6932

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Election of Chairholders

6932

Promotion of Chairholders

6933

Special Salary Action of Chairholders

6934

Retirement of Chairholder

6934

Promotions

6934

Special Salary Actions

6946

Resignations

6947

Retirements

6948

Appointments

6949

PAGE

Change in the Term of the Appointment of Mr. Craig K. Littlepage

6949

Re-Appointments

6949

Election of Professors Emeriti

6950

Deaths

6950

The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Special Salary Actions

6951

Resignations

6951

Re-Appointments

6951

Committee Assignments

6952

Resolution Adopted by the Executive Committee: Assignment of Pavilion III, West Lawn

6956

Resolutions Adopted by the Medical Center Operating Board Approval of Temporary Delegation of Authority Regarding Credentialing ActionsCredentialing and Recredentialing Actions

6956

Resolutions Adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee: Approval of Architect Selection for the Arts Grounds Parking GarageApproval of Architect Selection for the Education School BuildingApproval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the Observatory Hill Residence Hall (Alderman Road Residence Area Replacement Housing - Phase 1)Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the Hereford First Year Residence Hall (Alderman Road Residence Area Replacement Housing - Phase 1)Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the Medical Education Building

6956

PAGEApproval of the Minutes of the April 1-2, 2005 Board Meeting68932007 Board Meeting Schedule6893Assignment of Pavilion III6894Annual Meeting, 20066894Acceptance of Gifts and Grants Report6896Approval of the Commitment to Meet the State Goals Included in the Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act6898Approval of the Board of Visitors to Negotiate with the Governor to Develop a Management Agreement with the Commonwealth6900Election of the Vice Rector6903George A. Beller, M.D./Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging, Inc., Distinguished Professorship in Cardiovascular Medicine6904Andrew P. Somlyo Distinguished Professorship in Molecular Physiology6905Approval of Amendment to a Permanent Access Easement at the Cavalier Electrical Substation6907Approval to Remove the Building at 400 Venable Lane in Charlottesville6907Approval to Establish a New MBA Program Format: Darden MBA for Executives, Darden Graduate School of Business Administration6908 PAGEApproval of New Procedure for Posting Textbook Information6908Approval of Intent to Issue Bonds for Capital Projects6909Approval of Revised Enrollment Projections6911Approval of Enrollment Projections at The University of Virginia's College at Wise6912Approval of Enrollment Projections at The University of Virginia's College at Wise as of March 31, 20056912Approval of Procurement of Environmental Services for the Medical Center6913Approval of the Affiliation of the Jefferson Institute for Lifelong Learning as a University-Related Foundation6913Approval of the Audit Schedule6914Appointments to The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board6914Approval of 2005-2006 Tuition and Fees for Certain Graduate Degree Programs6914Approval of the 2005-2006 Operating Budget for the Academic Division6915Approval of the 2005-2006 Operating Budget for The University of Virginia's College at Wise6915Approval of the 2005-2006 Operating and Capital Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center6915Approval of Pratt Fund Distribution for 2005-20066915Expansion of Commercial Paper Program and Issuance of General Revenue Pledge Bonds6916 PAGEApproval of the Finance Committee as Monitor of the Defined Contribution Retirement Plans, Authorization for the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to Undertake Certain Actions, Authorization of a Change in the Funds Available in the Defined Contribution Retirement Plans, and Authorization of a Change in the Default Investment for Employees6923Approval to Enter into a Joint Venture for the Off- Site Provision of Stereotactic Head and Body Radiosurgery Procedures6926Approval of Addition of a Public Member to the Medical Center Operating Board6927Extension of the Special Committee on Diversity6927Election of the Executive Committee6927Memorial Resolution on Dr. DuPont Guerry, III6928Approval of the Summary of Audit Findings6928Resolution on the Return of a Portion of a Gift to the Donor6929Faculty Personnel ActionsElections6930Change in the Title of the Election of Dr. Avery J. Evans6932Change in the Term of the Election of Dr. Lynda T. Wells6932Actions Relating to ChairholdersElection of Chairholders6932Promotion of Chairholders6933Special Salary Action of Chairholders6934Retirement of Chairholder6934Promotions6934Special Salary Actions6946Resignations6947Retirements6948Appointments6949 PAGEChange in the Term of the Appointment of Mr. Craig K. Littlepage6949Re-Appointments6949Election of Professors Emeriti6950Deaths6950The University of Virginia's College at WiseSpecial Salary Actions6951Resignations6951Re-Appointments6951Committee Assignments6952Resolution Adopted by the Executive Committee: Assignment of Pavilion III, West Lawn 6956Resolutions Adopted by the Medical Center Operating Board Approval of Temporary Delegation of Authority Regarding Credentialing ActionsCredentialing and Recredentialing Actions 6956Resolutions Adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee: Approval of Architect Selection for the Arts Grounds Parking GarageApproval of Architect Selection for the Education School BuildingApproval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the Observatory Hill Residence Hall (Alderman Road Residence Area Replacement Housing - Phase 1)Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the Hereford First Year Residence Hall (Alderman Road Residence Area Replacement Housing - Phase 1)Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the Medical Education Building 6956

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS June 10-11, 2005
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 11:30 a.m., Friday, June 10, 2005, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector, presided. Thomas F. Farrell, II, A. Macdonald Caputo, Alan A. Diamonstein, Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., W. Heywood Fralin, Ms. Glynn D. Key, Mark J. Kington, Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr., Lewis F. Payne, Don R. Pippin, Warren M. Thompson, E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., Ms. Georgia M. Willis, John O. Wynne, and Ms. Catherine S. Neale were present.

Present as well were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D., R. Ariel Gomez, M.D., R. Edward Howell, Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Ms. Colette Sheehy, Robert D. Sweeney, Richard M. Berkeley, James H. Wright, Stephen A. Kimata, Ms. Yvonne B. Hubbard, Ms. Carol Wood, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

After calling the meeting to order, the Rector asked Mr. Fitz-Hugh to lead the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.

MINUTES OF THE APRIL 1-2 MEETING OF THE BOARD
---------------------------------------------

On motion, the Minutes of the last meeting of the Board, held on April 1st and 2nd, were approved.

2007 MEETING SCHEDULE
---------------------

The meeting schedule for 2007 was presented and, on motion, approved. The schedule is as follows: February 8-10April 12-14June 7-9July 27 and 28 (Retreat)October 4-6

ASSIGNMENT OF PAVILION III
--------------------------

The Rector reported that on May 10th, the Executive Committee voted to assign Pavilion III, West Lawn, to Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, Vice President for Student Affairs, and her husband, Wayne L. Cozart.

The resolution of assignment is as follows:

RESOLVED, Pavilion III is assigned to Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, Vice President for Student Affairs, and her husband, Wayne L. Cozart, for a period of five years beginning in the summer of 2005. The lease may be renewed, on application, for a second five years.

ANNUAL MEETING, 2006
--------------------

Pursuant to the terms specified in the Manual, the Rector set the 2006 Annual Meeting for June 10, 2006.

BOARD RETREAT
-------------

The Rector reminded Members that the Board Retreat will be held at Wintergreen in Nelson County July 29-30. On behalf of the Vice Rector, Mr. Farrell, who will become Rector on July 1st, the Rector asked Members to submit suggestions for topics to be discussed at the Retreat.

DEATH OF DUPONT GUERRY, III, M.D.
---------------------------------

The Rector announced the death of Dr. DuPont Guerry, III, on April 3rd. Dr. Guerry was a Member of the Board of Visitors from 1974 to 1982.

PRESIDENT'S REPORTGIFTS AND GRANTS REPORT
-----------------------------------------

The President began his customary remarks with a report on AccessUVA

The program, he said, has been a tremendous success in its first full year of implementation. The current number of admitted students who qualify for full grants under AccessUVA is 193, and the number continues to grow. A year ago, by comparison, 70 students were fully funded. He noted that the value of a fully funded year of education is $16,500 for in-state students and $34,500 for out-of-state students.

As a result of AccessUVA, 7% of the incoming class will be from low-income backgrounds. That figure is lower than we would like, he said, and the newly organized AccessUVA steering committee is developing strategies to increase that number.

The President thanked the steering committee: Ms. Yvonne Hubbard (Student Financial Services), Mr. Blackburn (Admissions), Mr. Kimata (University Comptroller) and Ms. Wood (University Relations) for their work. He introduced Mesdames Hubbard and Wood and Mr. Kimata to the Board; Mr. Blackburn was out of town.

The President also mentioned the Saturday Scholars Program, which had been very successful before it was discontinued in the early 1990s; it is planned to restart the Program in the Office of African American Affairs. The program was an effort to prepare students for college by engaging them beginning in middle school; an important component of the Program will be involvement by the parents, family or guardians of the participants.

The previous version of the Program, he said, was highly successful with very high college graduation rates among its participants.

The President reported that the University will present a life-size bronze statue of Thomas Jefferson to The University of Virginia's College at Wise. The statue, funded with private gifts, will commemorate the 50th anniversary of the College and Mr. Ern's service as Chancellor; it will be dedicated in the fall.

The President noted that he and Mrs. Casteen have traveled across the country and abroad this spring to meet with alumni, parents and friends of the University. Since January 1st, events have been held in some 27 cities.

The Class of 1955, which had its 50th reunion several weeks ago, broke all records with 40% of the class in attendance. There was an increase of more than 300% in the number of alumni attending Black Alumni Weekend. In the general reunions last weekend, four classes set records for reunion giving with the Class of 1985 making the largest gift: $9.2million. The grand total of reunion gifts was $27million.

The President reported that private giving to the University and its related foundations, in the period July 1, 2004 - April 30, 2005, came to $155.8million, an increase of 4% above the same period last year (but not including the reunion gifts of $27million).

Among the significant gifts received since he last reported to the Board, the President mentioned $5million to the College of Arts & Sciences from Mrs. Hamilton Clay of Charleston, West Virginia and Vero Beach, Florida. There was an anonymous $1million charitable remainder trust toward the Medical Education Building at the School of Medicine. The John H. Birdsall Trust made a $500,000 pledge payment to the College Foundation for its unrestricted use, and Jeffrey C. Walker of Wilton, Connecticut made a $333,000 pledge payment to the McIntire School of Commerce Foundation for McIntire's building campaign.

The President mentioned several new pledges made since his last report to the Board: an anonymous $5million pledge to the McIntire School of Commerce Foundation for its building campaign; a $5million pledge to the Medical School for the Beirne B. Carter Center for Immunology Research from the Beirne Carter Foundation of Richmond; $400,000 from Mr. Fralin to the Virginia Athletics Foundation for its unrestricted use; and $300,000 to the Virginia Athletics Foundation from Chase Investment Counsel of Charlottesville.

ACCEPTANCE OF THE GIFTS AND GRANTS REPORT
-----------------------------------------

On motion, the Board adopted a resolution accepting the Gifts and Grants Report:

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors accepts the Gifts and Grants Report for the period March 1, 2005 - April 30, 2005.

CHAIR OF THE UNIVERSITY CAMPAIGN
--------------------------------

The President announced that Mr. Rainey will become Chairman of the University Campaign when his term as Rector ends on June 30th. He remarked that Mr. Rainey's service as Rector, and his earlier service as President of the Alumni Association, would be particularly valuable in his new role. He said he could not think of a better person to bring together alumni, friends and parents representing a wide range of University interests. And he thanked him for taking on what he termed a critical duty.

THE JEFFERSON SCHOLARS PROGRAM
------------------------------

Noting that this is the 25th year of the Jefferson Scholars Program, the Rector asked Mr. Sweeney, Senior Vice President for Development and Public Affairs, to introduce Mr. Richard M. Berkeley of Baltimore, President of the Jefferson Scholars Foundation, and Mr. James H. Wright, Executive Director of the Foundation.

Mr. Berkeley gave a brief presentation on the achievements of the Jefferson Scholars Program and its contributions to the life of the University.

The Board recessed at 12:15 p.m. for lunch.

POLICY DISCUSSION
-----------------

The Board resumed its meeting, in Open Session, at 1:25 p.m.; all Members present at the meeting before lunch were present.

The purpose of the meeting was the Board's customary policy discussion, the topic of which was the Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act, the so-called "Charter Bill," which was passed by the General Assembly in its final - and as amended by the Governor - form on April 6th. The Board was called upon to approve the University's commitment to meet the goals specified in the Act, as well as to authorize the University administration to negotiate with the Governor to develop a management agreement with the Commonwealth.

After discussion, the Board approved the following resolutions:

APPROVAL OF THE COMMITMENT TO MEET THE STATE GOALS INCLUDED IN THE RESTRUCTURED HIGHER EDUCATION FINANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE OPERATIONS ACT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the 2005 General Assembly passed HB 2866 and SB 1327 known as the Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act, as amended by the Governor; and

WHEREAS, eligibility for participation in the Act specifies the formal adoption of a resolution by the Board of Visitors of the public institution of higher education by August 1, 2005, committing to the Governor and to the General Assembly to meet a set of eleven statewide goals as specified in Chapter 4.10, Section 23-38.88 B. of the Act as follows:

WHEREAS, upon adoption of this resolution the University of Virginia, the University of Virginia Medical Center, and the University of Virginia's College at Wise shall be permitted on or after July 1, 2005 to exercise certain financial and administrative operational authority as specified in Chapter 4.10, 23-38.88 A.; and

WHEREAS, after meeting certain performance benchmarks associated with each of the eleven goals as assessed and certified by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, the University, the Medical Center, and the College at Wise will be eligible for certain financial incentives such as interest on tuition and fee revenue as outlined in 2.2-5005 of the Act;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia commits to the Governor and to the General Assembly that it will meet the goals as set forth in this resolution in addition to such other responsibilities as prescribed by law as they pertain to the University of Virginia, the Medical Center, and the College at Wise; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors requests the President to transmit this resolution to the Governor and the Secretary of Education.

APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS TO NEGOTIATE WITH THE GOVERNOR TO DEVELOP A MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT WITH THE COMMONWEALTH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the 2005 General Assembly passed HB 2866 and SB 1327 known as the Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act, as amended by the Governor; and

WHEREAS, separate action by the Board of Visitors commits to the Governor and the General Assembly to meet the state goals as specified in Chapter 4.10, Section 23- 38.88 B. of the Act; and

WHEREAS, the Act includes a provision titled Subchapter 3, Alternative Authority for Covered Institutions (23-38.91 et seq.), which sets out the requirements for a public university or college of the Commonwealth to gain the greatest degree of authority over financial and administrative operations, subject to certain accountability, audit and reporting measures specified by the General Assembly of Virginia;

RESOLVED, it is the sense of the Board of Visitors that the University is qualified to be, and should be, governed by the authorizations and requirements set forth in Subchapter 3 and as may otherwise be prescribed by applicable law; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors of the University attests to the ability of the institution to manage successfully its administrative and financial operations without jeopardizing its financial integrity and stability; and accordingly authorizes the University President to submit to the Governor a written request for the University to be governed by Subchapter 3, providing a copy of such written request to the Chairmen of the House Committee on Appropriations, the House Committee on Education, the Senate Committee on Finance, and the Senate Committee on Education and Health. The University's request shall be supported by the documentation called for by 23- 38.97 of the Virginia Code, including documenting the University's expertise and resources to perform successfully its public educational mission and setting forth its performance and accountability standards; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer are authorized to enter into negotiations with the Governor to develop a management agreement with the Commonwealth as provided for in the Act that will grant the greatest degree of financial and managerial autonomy to the University as provided in Subchapter 3, which management agreement shall be submitted to the Board of Visitors for its review and approval; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that it is the desire of the Board of Visitors that the Medical Center and the College at Wise be included in and benefit from the same financial and managerial authority as may be granted to the University according to the terms of the approved management agreement and the Act.

This portion of the meeting ended at 2:00 p.m., and the Board, after adopting the following motions, went into Executive Session:

That the Board of Visitors convene in Executive Session to consult with General Counsel regarding his privileged legal report to the Board on pending and anticipated litigation affecting the University, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss and review, and to consult with the General Counsel, the acquisition and disposition of real estate, together with the proposed terms and testamentary intentions in connection therewith, where disclosure at this time would affect the University's negotiation strategy, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(3), (6), (7) and (30) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors convene in Executive Session to consult with legal counsel and to discuss and evaluate specific gift terms and fund-raising activities, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) 4),(7), and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss and evaluate negotiation strategies and objectives as to whether the University should support and invest in a prospective educational business that is in early planning stages, as well as to consult with legal counsel, where disclosure at this time would adversely affect the University's interests, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(5), (6), (7), and (30) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss and evaluate with legal counsel existing and future negotiations with a private vendor concerning the provision of academic programs and services by the University, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (5), (6), (7), and (30) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and/or approving personnel actions involving the appointment, reappointment, nomination, evaluation, compensation, and resignation of specific University officers and employees as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------

The Board came out of Executive Session at 3:35 p.m., and adopted the following resolution certifying that its discussions in Executive Session had been conducted in accord with provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act:

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

ELECTION OF THE VICE RECTOR
---------------------------

Mr. Payne nominated Mr. Fralin for the position of Vice Rector. There were no other nominations and Mr. Fralin was elected by unanimous vote.

RESOLVED, W. Heywood Fralin of Roanoke is elected Vice Rector, his term to begin on July 1, 2005. He shall serve for two years as Vice Rector and on July 1, 2007 shall become Rector.

The Board recessed at 3:40 p.m., and moved to the Dome Room of the Rotunda to continue its meeting.

PROFESSORSHIPS AND NAMINGS GEORGE A. BELLER, M.D./BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB MEDICAL IMAGING, INC., DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN CARDIOVASCULAR MEDICINE ANDREW P. SOMLYO DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN MOLECULAR PHYSIOLOGYTHE ROBERT M. BERNE CARDIOVASCULAR RESEARCH CENTERTHE W. NORMAN THORNTON, JR., GYNECOLOGIC-ONCOLOGY SERVICE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board resumed its meeting in the Dome Room, in Open Session, at 4:00 p.m. All Members in attendance at the meetings earlier in the day were present, save Messrs. Diamonstein, Pippin, and Thompson.

By resolution, the Board established two professorships:

WHEREAS, George A. Beller took his M.D. from the University of Virginia in 1966 and returned to the School of Medicine in 1977 as Chief of the Cardiovascular Division of the Department of Medicine; and

WHEREAS, in 1977 there were seven clinical faculty members in the Division, a number which grew to 33 under Dr. Beller's leadership; and

WHEREAS, the Division has become a national, and indeed international center for research and teaching in cardiology under Dr. Beller; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Beller in 2004 returned to full time research and clinical practice; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Beller and Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging, Inc., have collaborated in research for many years; and

WHEREAS, Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging, Inc., has made a generous gift for a professorship to honor Dr. Beller and his contributions to cardiology, particularly nuclear cardiology;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the George A. Beller, MD/Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging, Inc., Distinguished Professorship in Cardiovascular Medicine, to be held in the Division of Cardiovascular Medicine of the Department of Medicine in the School of Medicine. The Board thanks Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging, Inc., for its support and generosity and thanks, too, Dr. Beller for his distinguished service to the University of Virginia.

WHEREAS, Andrew P. Somlyo, M.D., was Chairman of the Department of Molecular Physiology and Charles Slaughter Professor in Physiology in the School of Medicine of the University of Virginia from 1988 until his death in 2004; and

WHEREAS, under Dr. Somlyo's direction and leadership, the Department of Molecular Physiology became one of the best physiology departments in the country; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Somlyo founded the Center for Structural Biology at the University;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Andrew P. Somlyo Distinguished Professorship in Molecular Physiology, to be held in the Department of Molecular Physiology in the School of Medicine. In so doing, the Board honors the distinguished contributions Dr. Somlyo made to his discipline and to the University of Virginia.

The Board then heard reports from the President on two namings, neither of which required Board action:

The Berne Cardiovascular Research Center, which is in the School of Medicine, is named in honor of the late Robert M. Berne, M.D., for many years the Chair of the Department of Physiology at the Medical School. The Cardiovascular Research Center, founded in Dr. Berne's lifetime, would not have existed without Dr. Berne's efforts.

The Thornton Gynecologic-Oncology Service in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at the School of Medicine, is named for the late Dr. William Norman Thornton, Jr., who was Chair of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology for 29 years.

On motion, the Board adjourned at 4:20 p.m.

THE GOVERNOR'S COMMISSION ON HIGHER EDUCATION BOARD APPOINTMENTS
----------------------------------------------------------------

The Board resumed its meeting, in Open Session, at 8:15 a.m., on Saturday, June 11, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda. All Members were present save Mr. Thompson.

The Board heard a report from Mr. Joshua P. Darden, Jr., of Norfolk, Chair of the Governor's Commission on Higher Education Board Appointments. Mr. Darden is a former Rector (1987-1990). He described the work of the Commission in de-politicizing appointments, as much as possible, to the Boards of Visitors of the Commonwealth's public institutions, and in identifying qualified candidates.

The Board recessed, as the full Board, at 8:25 a.m., for a meeting of the Educational Policy Committee.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
-----------------

The Board resumed meeting as the full Board at 9:55 a.m., in Open Session, to hear reports from the several Committee Chairs of the meetings of their Committees.

Both the Finance Committee and the Medical Center Operating Board, as part of their report meetings, held very brief business sessions to consider - and adopt - resolutions that for various reasons could not be brought to the floor during their regular meetings. Both resolutions were approved and recommended to the full Board for approval. The texts of the two resolutions, Approval of 2005-2006 Tuition and Fees for Certain Graduate Degree Programs, and Approval of Addition of a Public Member to the Medical Center Operating Board, appear below in these Minutes along with the other resolutions approved by the full Board at the end of its meeting.

FINAL SESSION:
--------------

The Board began the final session of its meeting, in Open Session, at 10:30 a.m.; all Members, save Mr. Thompson, were present.

The Board approved the following resolutions:

APPROVAL OF AMENDMENT TO A PERMANENT ACCESS EASEMENT AT THE CAVALIER ELECTRICAL SUBSTATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of an amended permanent easement to Virginia Electric and Power Company to extend electric power on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved. The installation in question, known as the Cavalier Electrical Substation, is east of the East Garage of the Hospital and across 11th Street from it.

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE THE BUILDING AT 400 VENABLE LANE IN CHARLOTTESVILLE
----------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University owns the building at 400 Venable Lane (FAACS Building Number: 207-0161) in Charlottesville; and

WHEREAS, the building site is needed for the South Lawn project; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources; and

WHEREAS, the State's Art and Architectural Review Board and Department of Historic Resources have approved the removal of this structure;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves the removal of the building at 400 Venable Lane; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned building, and that the said officer ensure that the required reports regarding the building removal are sent to the Department of General Services.

APPROVAL TO ESTABLISH A NEW MBA PROGRAM FORMAT: DARDEN MBA FOR EXECUTIVES, DARDEN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the new MBA program format, Darden MBA for Executives, be established in the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration.

APPROVAL OF NEW PROCEDURE FOR POSTING TEXTBOOK INFORMATION
----------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, House Bill 1726 was passed during the 2005 General Assembly Session to require that public institutions of higher education post textbook information when the relevant instructor or academic department identifies the required textbooks; and

WHEREAS, the bill requires that the governing boards of each institution shall implement the procedures necessary to comply with the legislation;

RESOLVED, the Board approves the University's revised procedures to comply with the legislation beginning July 1, 2005; specifically:

APPROVAL OF INTENT TO ISSUE BONDS FOR CAPITAL PROJECTS
------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University intends to undertake the following capital projects with bond financing as a funding source:

WHEREAS, the United States Department of the Treasury has promulgated final regulations in Section l.l50-2 of the Treasury Regulations governing when the allocation of bond proceeds to reimburse expenditures previously made by a borrower shall be treated as an expenditure of the bond proceeds; and

WHEREAS, the Regulations require a declaration of official intent by a borrower to provide evidence that the borrower intended to reimburse such expenditures with proceeds of its bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia desires to make such a declaration of official intent as required by the Regulations; and

WHEREAS, the University may be required to provide short-term financing to the projects prior to issuing long- term debt in order to implement an efficient and timely construction schedule; and

WHEREAS, the University has funding mechanisms to accommodate short-term financing needs, defined as a period of less than sixty months; and

WHEREAS, the authority for the University to enter into financing arrangements exceeding sixty months in maturity for the projects listed is not included in this resolution; and

WHEREAS, if the University arranges short-term financing for a particular project, and if the project is not ultimately completed, or if the project utilizes funding sources other than bonds, then the appropriate school or unit remains responsible for refunding the short- term obligation;

RESOLVED that, pursuant to the terms of the Treasury Regulations, the University of Virginia declares its intent to reimburse expenditures in accordance with the following:

RESOLVED FURTHER, that these enumerated projects are separate enterprises independent of one another, and that the authorization for funding relates to each individually; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, funds may be borrowed for the projects on a short-term basis, but only if the following conditions are met:

APPROVAL OF REVISED ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS
------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the State Council of Higher Education in Virginia has requested that the University extend its existing enrollment plan, approved by the Board of Visitors in April 2005, to reflect projected increases in the undergraduate and graduate enrollment levels through 2011- 2012; and

WHEREAS, the Board previously approved enrollment projections through 2009-2010, which were based on achieving enrollment growth of 1,100 undergraduate students and 400 graduate students over the next decade; and

WHEREAS, the University is committed to serving the higher education needs of the Commonwealth of Virginia and the nation;

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to develop plans with the State Council of Higher Education in Virginia which will keep the University on track to increase total enrollment by 1,500 students over the next decade; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that all undergraduate growth maintain the current mix of in-state and out-of-state students.

APPROVAL OF ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Term

Total Headcount

Fall 2006

1948

Fall 2007

2006

Fall 2008

2036

Fall 2009

2066

Fall 2010

2105

Fall 2011

2130

WHEREAS, The University of Virginia's College at Wise is committed to managed growth of its student body; and

WHEREAS, The University of Virginia's College at Wise also is committed to recruiting and retaining an academically talented and diverse student body from Virginia and from outside the Commonwealth;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves the proposed enrollment projections, as shown below, for The University of Virginia's College at Wise for the fall 2006 through the fall of 2011.

APPROVAL OF ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE AS OF MARCH 31, 2005
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Term

Total Headcount

Fall 2006

1948

Fall 2007

2006

Fall 2008

2036

Fall 2009

2066

Fall 2010

2105

WHEREAS, new academic programs at The University of Virginia's College at Wise present opportunities for enrollment growth; and

WHEREAS, The University of Virginia's College at Wise is committed to the managed growth of its student body; and

WHEREAS, The University of Virginia's College at Wise also is committed to recruiting and retaining an academically talented and diverse student body from Virginia and from outside the Commonwealth;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the proposed enrollment projections, as shown below, for The University of Virginia's College at Wise for the fall of 2006 through the fall of 2010.

APPROVAL OF PROCUREMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES FOR THE MEDICAL CENTER
------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University is authorized to execute a contract for environmental services for the Medical Center upon the recommendation of the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center, and approval of the Office of the General Counsel.

APPROVAL OF THE AFFILIATION OF THE JEFFERSON INSTITUTE FOR LIFELONG LEARNING AS A UNIVERSITY- RELATED FOUNDATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University Policy on University-Related Foundations requires that designation of new University- related foundations be approved by the Board of Visitors; and

WHEREAS, the work of the Jefferson Institute for Lifelong Learning complements the University's commitment to lifelong learning and public engagement; and

WHEREAS, the Jefferson Institute for Lifelong Learning will modify its Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws to comply with the Policy on University-Related Foundations, including the requirement that the Board of Visitors' representative and/or the University's president's representative to the foundation's board serve on the foundation's executive and/or audit committee; and

WHEREAS, the Jefferson Institute for Lifelong Learning will be financially self-sufficient, and, where it desires to use University administrative services or other resources, will contract and pay for these services; and

WHEREAS, the University's administration recommends that the Board of Visitors approve the affiliation of the Jefferson Institute for Lifelong Learning as a University- related foundation;

RESOLVED that the affiliation of the Jefferson Institute for Lifelong Learning as a University- related foundation is approved, effective July 1, 2005, subject to the requirements of the University Policy on University-Related Foundations.

APPROVAL OF THE AUDIT SCHEDULE
------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Audit Schedule for Fiscal Year 2005- 2006 is approved as recommended by the Audit & Compliance Committee.

APPOINTMENTS TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE BOARD
------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Mrs. Elizabeth G. Cauthen, Messrs. Kenneth P. Asbury, Paul D. Buchanan, and Don R. Pippin are re-appointed to The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board, for terms ending June 30, 2009; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that Mr. Ronald C. Flanary is appointed to The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board to fill the unexpired term of Mr. Larry A. Munsey who resigned his position on the Board in January. Mr. Flanary's term will end June 30, 2007.

APPROVAL OF 2005-2006 TUITION AND FEES FOR CERTAIN GRADUATE DEGREE PROGRAMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian 2005-2006 Proposed

Non-Virginian 2005-2006 Proposed

MBA for Executives

Tuition and Fees

$90,000

$90,000

Price includes fees for special session mandatory fee, lodging, technology, and books.

Application Fee

$200

$200

RESOLVED that the tuition and fees applicable to the following graduate degree programs be approved as shown below, effective May 1, 2006:

APPROVAL OF THE 2005-2006 OPERATING BUDGET FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
--------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the 2005-2006 Operating Budget for the Academic Division is approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL OF THE 2005-2006 OPERATING BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the 2005-2006 Operating Budget for The University of Virginia's College at Wise is approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL OF THE 2005-2006 OPERATING AND CAPITAL BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the 2005-2006 Operating and Capital Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center is approved, as recommended by the President, the Chief Financial Officer and the Medical Center Operating Board.

APPROVAL OF PRATT FUND DISTRIBUTION FOR 2005-2006
-------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the budget for the expenditure of funds from the Estate of John Lee Pratt be approved to supplement appropriations made by the Commonwealth of Virginia for the School of Medicine and Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics in the College of Arts and Sciences. Departmental allocations, not to exceed $2.6 million for 2005-2006, are suggested by the department chairs and recommended by the dean of each school. The special distributions are not to exceed $4,363,264 for 2005-2006. To the extent the annual income from the endowment is not adequate to meet the recommended distribution, the principal of the endowment will be disinvested to provide funds for the approved budgets.

EXPANSION OF COMMERCIAL PAPER PROGRAM AND ISSUANCE OF GENERAL REVENUE PLEDGE BONDS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Chapter 9, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the "Virginia Code"), establishes a public corporation under the name and style of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the University") which is governed by a Board of Visitors (the "Board"); and

WHEREAS, Chapter 3, Title 23 of the Virginia Code (the "Act") classifies the University as an educational institution, declares it to be a public body and constitutes it a governmental instrumentality for the dissemination of education; and

WHEREAS, the Act empowers the University, with the consent and approval of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Commonwealth") and the Governor of the Commonwealth to build, construct, reconstruct, erect, extend, better, equip, and improve any building, facility, addition, extension, or improvement of a capital nature required by or convenient for the purposes of the University and to borrow money and make, issue, and sell bonds of the University for any such purposes, including the refinancing of any such facilities; and

WHEREAS, the Act further authorizes the University to pledge to the payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds any monies available for the use of the University including, but not limited to, and subject to guidelines promulgated by the Secretary of Finance of the Commonwealth (the "Secretary of Finance"), monies appropriated to the University from the general funds of the Commonwealth or from non-general funds, without regard to the source of such monies, and which are not required by law or by previous binding contract to be devoted to some other purpose; and

WHEREAS, the Board has previously determined to facilitate the financing or refinancing from time to time of capital projects of the University on a short-term basis through the issuance of short-term commercial paper (the "Program"), and hereby determines that the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Program at any time should not exceed $175,000,000; and

WHEREAS, the Board anticipates that the Program will be secured by a general revenue pledge of the University and shall not be in any way a debt of the Commonwealth and shall not create or constitute any indebtedness or obligation of the Commonwealth, either legal, moral, or otherwise; and

WHEREAS, the Board has previously approved resolutions declaring an intent to issue bonds and has authorized the issuance of debt funding for the projects, (the "Projects"), described in items A through H below:

WHEREAS, the maximum cost, authorized bond issuance amount, and amount of previously issued bonds, if any, for each Project is indicated above; and

WHEREAS, the Commonwealth has authorized the Projects and the issuance of bonds for them in the following legislation:

WHEREAS, a portion of the projects has been financed on a short-term basis through the University's commercial paper "program"; and

WHEREAS, the Board has now determined to authorize the issuance of bonds to refund all or a portion of the outstanding principal amount of the University's general revenue pledge bonds, Series 1998A; and

WHEREAS, the Board anticipates that the bonds will be secured by a general revenue pledge of the University and not be in any way a debt of the Commonwealth and shall not create or constitute any indebtedness or obligation of the Commonwealth, either legal, moral, or otherwise; and

WHEREAS, the Board authorizes the issuance of bonds for each of the Projects up to the Project authorized bond amounts described above, less the amount of any bonds previously issued and outstanding with respect thereto, and for the refunding of all or a portion of the Series 1998A Bonds, and desires to authorize its Executive Committee (the "Executive Committee") to approve the final forms and details of the bonds, as set forth below;

RESOLVED that the University's commercial paper program will be expanded from a maximum of $100 million to a maximum of $175 million; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that costs associated with any capital project of the University may be financed under the Program provided that (i) such project has been authorized by appropriate legislation enacted by the Commonwealth and (ii) the incurrence of indebtedness for such project has been authorized by the Board or the Executive Committee; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee or all officers of the University are authorized and directed to take all such further actions, including without limitation the designation of underwriters, paying agents, remarketing agents, trustees, and liquidity providers for the Program, and to execute all such instruments, agreements, documents, and certificates as they shall deem necessary or desirable to carry out the terms of the Program, including without limitation any liquidity facilities, swap, or other interest rate management agreements associated with the Program; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee is authorized to implement the plan of finance described in the Recitals by adopting a resolution or resolutions authorizing the issuance of one or more series of bonds for the purpose of financing or refinancing any or all of the Projects and for refunding all or a portion of Series 1998A Bonds, and providing for the terms thereof, as required by Section 23-19 of the Virginia Code; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee is authorized to approve the final terms of each series of bonds, including, without limitation, their original principal amounts, the specific Projects, and the refunding to be financed or refinanced, maturity dates, and amounts, redemption provisions and prices and interest rates (which may be either fixed or variable), provided that (i) the maximum aggregate principal amount of all bonds shall not exceed $225 million; (ii) the maximum true interest cost of any series bearing interest at a fixed rate shall not exceed six percent (6 percent) per annum; (iii) the maximum initial true interest cost of any series bearing interest at a variable rate shall not exceed five percent (5 percent) per annum; (iv) the final maturity of all bonds shall not exceed 40 years beyond issuance date; (v) call protection on the bonds shall not exceed eleven (11) years; and (vi) no optional redemption premium shall exceed two percent; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the fees paid to underwriters and financial advisors on negotiated and competitive transactions shall be in accordance with the contracts established and applicable to the transactions; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee or all officers of the University are authorized and directed to take all such further actions, including without limitation the designation of underwriters, paying agents, remarketing agents, trustees, and liquidity providers for the bonds, and to execute all such instruments, agreements, documents, and certificates as they shall deem necessary or desirable to carry out the terms of the financing plans presented to this meeting, including without limitation any liquidity facilities, swap or other interest rate management agreements associated with the bonds; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, pursuant to the Section 147(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and applicable regulations thereunder, the University designates the Vice President for Finance of the University, as the public hearing officer to hold any public hearings required in order to ensure the tax-exempt status of interest on the bonds; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that all acts of all officers of the University which are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution and in carrying out the financing plans presented to this meeting are ratified, approved and affirmed; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that, upon approval, this action shall take effect immediately.

APPROVAL OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE AS MONITOR OF THE DEFINED CONTRIBUTION RETIREMENT PLANS, AUTHORIZATION FOR THE EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER TO UNDERTAKE CERTAIN ACTIONS, AUTHORIZATION OF A CHANGE IN THE FUNDS AVAILABLE IN THE DEFINED CONTRIBUTION RETIREMENT PLANS, AND AUTHORIZATION OF A CHANGE IN THE DEFAULT INVESTMENT FOR EMPLOYEES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Action

Fidelity

TIAA-CREF

Vanguard

Additions

American BeaconSmall Cap ValueIndexAmerican CenturyLarge Cap Value

TIAA-CREF SmallCap EquityTIAA-CREFInternationalEquity

Small CapValuePlanDevelopedMarketsIndex

Deletions

Janus Mid-CapValueFidelity Growth& Income

WHEREAS, the University is the plan sponsor of a number of defined contribution retirement plans; and

WHEREAS, on June 13, 1997, the Board delegated the authority to monitor the administration of the defined contribution retirement plans to the Investment Subcommittee of the Finance Committee; and

WHEREAS, subsequent to the June 13, 1997 meeting of the Board, the Investment Subcommittee of the Finance Committee became the University of Virginia Investment Management Company (UVIMCO), which then became a separate related foundation on July 1, 2004; and

WHEREAS, because UVIMCO is separate from the University, it is necessary to designate a Board entity to undertake the duties delegated to the Investment Subcommittee in the June 13, 1997 resolution; and

WHEREAS, at the June 13, 1997 meeting of the Board, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer was authorized to contract for the services of a corporate trustee or trustees, appoint an administrative committee to assist the Board in carrying out its duties with respect to the defined contribution retirement plans, and to engage outside consultants as needed; and

WHEREAS, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer became the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer in 1999; and

WHEREAS, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer has contracted for the services of corporate trustees, appointed the Retirement Administrative Committee to assist the Board in carrying out its duties with respect to the retirement plans, and engaged the firm of Palmer & Cay as outside consultants on retirement plan issues; and

WHEREAS, under the Investment Policy Statement adopted by the Board on December 12, 2002, the entity charged with monitoring the retirement plans is required annually to review the investment performance and make changes to the investment funds as necessary; and

WHEREAS, the University shall remain Plan Administrator, Plan Sponsor and Named Fiduciary of the defined contribution retirement plans, with responsibility for day-to-day operations delegated to the Chief Human Resources Officer;

RESOLVED that the Finance Committee is delegated the authority to monitor the administration of the defined contribution retirement plans on behalf of the Board, including reviewing the fund families and the funds included in the plans; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board affirms the authority of the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to contract for the services of a corporate trustee or trustees; to form an administrative committee to assist the Finance Committee in carrying out its duties; and to engage outside consultants as needed to assist with the University's responsibilities as Plan Administrator and Named Fiduciary; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the following changes to the existing investment lineup of the defined contribution retirement plans shall be made as soon as practicable:

RESOLVED FURTHER that the default investment for University-sponsored retirement plans shall be changed from the TIAA-CREF Money Market Fund to the Fidelity Freedom Fund appropriate for the employee's age and years to retirement.

APPROVAL TO ENTER INTO A JOINT VENTURE FOR THE OFF- SITE PROVISION OF STEREOTACTIC HEAD AND BODY RADIOSURGERY PROCEDURES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, in order to continue and further its mission of clinical care, teaching, and research, the University of Virginia Medical Center desires to expand its stereotactic radiosurgery business by directly or indirectly entering into a joint venture with Riverside Regional Medical Center or a related entity (the "Riverside Entities") for the provision of stereotactic head and body radiosurgery procedures in the Newport News region of Virginia; and

WHEREAS, Section 23-77.3 of the Code of Virginia grants authority to the Medical Center to enter into joint ventures;

RESOLVED that the University, on behalf of the Medical Center, directly or indirectly, may enter into a joint venture with the Riverside Entities to provide stereotactic head and body radiosurgery services in the Newport News, Virginia region (the "Riverside Joint Venture"), with the Medical Center's interest, directly or indirectly, in the Riverside Joint Venture not to exceed twenty percent (20%); and

RESOLVED that the University, on behalf of its Medical Center, is authorized to form a limited liability company to own the Medical Center's interest in the Riverside Joint Venture, as the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center may determine to be necessary; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that on the recommendation of the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center, and with the concurrence of the Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board and the Chair of the Finance Committee, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University is authorized to negotiate and execute contracts and other legal documents pertaining to the creation and formation of the Riverside Joint Venture and any limited liability company necessary to own the Medical Center's interest.

APPROVAL OF ADDITION OF A PUBLIC MEMBER TO THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED, the Manual of the Board of Visitors, as approved on 31 July, 2004, is amended to permit, but not mandate, the appointment, by the Board of Visitors, of an additional nonvoting public member to the Medical Center Operating Board.

The membership of the Medical Center Operating Board thus shall consist of the Rector and the Chair of the Finance Committee, as well as three other members of the Board of Visitors, all of whom shall be voting members. The Board of Visitors may appoint no more than five public nonvoting members of the Medical Center Operating Board, to serve for initial terms not to exceed four years.

The Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center, the Vice President and Dean of the School of Medicine, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University, and the President of the Clinical Staff of the Medical Center shall serve as nonvoting advisory members.

EXTENSION OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON DIVERSITY
-----------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Manual of the Board of Visitors specifies that special committees of the Board be extended each year at the Annual Meeting;

RESOLVED, the Special Committee on Diversity is extended to the Annual Meeting of 2006.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

RESOLVED, the Executive Committee, as of July 1, 2005, shall consist of the Rector, the Vice Rector, Glynn D. Key, Mark J. Kington, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., and Warren M. Thompson; The Rector shall serve as Chair. From June 11 to July 1, the date on which the new Rector and Vice Rector take office, the Committee shall consist of Mr. Rainey, Mr. Farrell, Ms. Key, Mr. Kington, Mr. Thompson, and Mr. Fralin, with Mr. Rainey as Chair.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION ON DR. DUPONT GUERRY, III
---------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, DuPont Guerry, III, born a South Carolina Huguenot in Greenville, took his M.D. from the University of Virginia in 1938; and

WHEREAS, after a distinguished internship at the University Hospital and residencies at two institutions in New York, Dr. Guerry began the practice of ophthalmology in Richmond; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Guerry taught ophthalmology at the Medical College of Virginia from 1944 to 1982 and established an international reputation in research and teaching, achievements that were recognized by the American Ophthalmological Society which in 1987 bestowed upon him the Howe Medal, its highest honor; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Guerry was above all a physician in the finest sense of the word; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Guerry was appointed to the Board of Visitors by Governor Godwin in 1974 and served until 1982; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Guerry died at his home in Goochland County on April 3, 2005;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors notes with profound sorrow the death of DuPont Guerry, III, expresses its appreciation for his distinguished service to the University, to the Commonwealth, and to his profession, and extends its deepest sympathy to his family.

APPROVAL OF THE SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-----------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period January 1, 2005, through April 30, 2005, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit & Compliance Committee.

RESOLUTION ON THE RETURN OF A PORTION OF A GIFT TO THE DONOR
------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, in 2003 James E. Manley made a substantial gift to support the Department of Athletics; and

WHEREAS, this gift was designated for certain specific purposes including renovation of Memorial Gymnasium and other improvements; and

WHEREAS, the specific purposes for which the gift was made have been accomplished; and

WHEREAS, the donor has requested the excess funds be returned to him;

RESOLVED that the Board authorizes the University to return to Mr. Manley $60,000 of his 2003 gift to the Department of Athletics.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSCHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE ELECTION OF DR. AVERY J. EVANSCHANGE IN THE TERM OF THE ELECTION OF DR. LYNDA T. WELLSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Election of Chairholders(b) Promotion of Chairholders(c) Special Salary Action of Chairholders(d) Retirement of ChairholderPROMOTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTSAPPOINTMENTSCHANGE IN THE TERM OF THE APPOINTMENT OF MR. CRAIG K. LITTLEPAGERE-APPOINTMENTSELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITIDEATHS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the title of the election of Dr. Avery J. Evans as Professor of Clinical Radiology, for three years, effective December 1, 2004, at an annual salary of $100,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated March 31-April 2, 2005, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the term of the election of Dr. Lynda T. Wells as Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, effective January 25, 2005, at an annual salary of $100,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated March 31-April 2, 2005, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirements were announced:

The following appointments were announced:

The President will announce that the term of the appointment of Mr. Craig K. Littlepage as Director of Athletics, for five years, effective August 25, 2001, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated October 18-19, 2001, be changed to read as follows:

Mr. Craig K. Littlepage as Director of Athletics, for seven years, effective August 25, 2001.

The following re-appointments were announced:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

The following deaths were announced:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISESPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSRE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

The following resignations were announced:

The following re-appointments were announced:

COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Effective June 11, 2005
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AUDIT & COMPLIANCECOMMITTEE

Georgia M. Willis, Chair

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr.

Don R. Pippin

Warren M. Thompson

BUILDINGS & GROUNDSCOMMITTEE

Mark J. Kington, Chair

Alan A. Diamonstein

Susan Y. Dorsey

W. Heywood Fralin

Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr.

Catherine S. Neale

Lewis F. Payne

Don R. Pippin

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

EDUCATIONAL POLICYCOMMITTEE

Glynn D. Key, Chair

Alan A. Diamonstein

Susan Y. Dorsey

Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr.

Catherine S. Neale

Lewis F. Payne

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr.

John O. Wynne

EXTERNAL AFFAIRSCOMMITTEE

Lewis F. Payne, Chair

A. Macdonald Caputo

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

W. Heywood Fralin

Glynn D. Key

Don R. Pippin

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

FINANCE COMMITTEE

W. Heywood Fralin, Chair

A. Macdonald Caputo

Alan A. Diamonstein

Mark J. Kington

Warren M. Thompson

Georgia M. Willis

John O. Wynne

MEDICAL CENTEROPERATING BOARD

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., Chair

Eugene V. Fife

W. Heywood Fralin

Randy J. Koporc

Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr.

Lewis F. Payne

Katherine L. Smallwood, M.D.

Edward J. Stemmler, M.D.

Thomas F. Farrell, II

Ex Officio Advisory Members:

Arthur Garson Jr., M.D.

John B. Hanks, M.D.

R. Edward Howell

Leonard W. Sandridge

STUDENT AFFAIRS ANDATHLETICS COMMITTEE

Susan Y. Dorsey, Chair

A. Macdonald Caputo

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Glynn D. Key

Catherine S. Neale

Don R. Pippin

Warren M. Thompson

Georgia M. Willis

COMMITTEE ON THEUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'SCOLLEGE AT WISE

Don R. Pippin, Chair

Alan A. Diamonstein

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ONDIVERSITY

Warren M. Thompson, Chair

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Glynn D. Key

Catherine S. Neale

Georgia M. Willis

John O. Wynne

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIAINVESTMENT MANAGEMENTCOMPANY

John O. Wynne, Chair

A. Macdonald Caputo

Peter F. Dolan

Christine P. Gustafson

Mark J. Kington

Leonard W. Sandridge

Thomas A. Saunders, III

Matthew G. Thompson

Thomas F. Farrell, II, Ex Officio

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Effective June 11 - July 1

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Chair

Thomas F. Farrell, II

W. Heywood Fralin

Glynn D. Key

Mark J. Kington

Effective July 1, 2005

Thomas F. Farrell, II, Chair

W. Heywood Fralin

Glynn D. Key

Mark J. Kington

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

Warren M. Thompson

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ONPLANNING

John O. Wynne, Chair

Susan Y. Dorsey

W. Heywood Fralin

Glynn D. Key

Mark J. Kington

Lewis F. Payne

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

The Rector announced the composition of the several Committees of the Board:

NOTE: The Rector is an ex-officio member of all Committees except the Executive Committee and the Medical Center Operating Board: he is a full-fledged voting member of the MCOB and Chair of the Executive Committee.

DARDEN HALL AT WISE
-------------------

Mr. Pippin asked Mr. Neuman, Architect for the University, if anything can be done to improve the appearance of the exterior of Darden Hall at The University of Virginia's College at Wise. Mr. Neuman said he would study the matter and make a recommendation.

At the end of the meeting, several Members expressed their appreciation to the Rector - who was presiding over his last meeting of the full Board as Rector - for his exemplary and unselfish service as the Board's presiding officer.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 10:45 a.m.

RESOLUTIONS NOT REQUIRING ACTION BY THE FULL BOARDMEETING OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON MAY 10, 2005 (Attachment A)MEETING OF THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD ON MAY 12, 2005 (Attachment B)MEETING OF THE BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE ON JUNE 10, 2005 (Attachment C)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There follows a listing of resolutions adopted by Board Committees since the April Board meeting; these are resolutions which do not require action by the full Board. They are listed in these Minutes as a matter of record.

Assignment of Pavilion III, West Lawn

Approval of Temporary Delegation of Authority Regarding Credentialing Actions Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions

Approval of Architect Selection for the Arts Grounds Parking Garage Approval of Architect Selection for the Education School Building Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the Observatory Hill Residence Hall (Alderman Road Residence Area Replacement Housing - Phase 1) Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the Hereford First Year Residence Hall (Alderman Road Residence Area Replacement Housing - Phase 1) Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the Medical Education Building

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: June 10-11, 2005 CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session - as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia - only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration in closed session.

ATTACHMENT A RESOLUTIONS FROM THE MEETING OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MAY 10, 2005 ATTACHMENT AASSIGNMENT OF PAVILION III
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia was polled by telephone on Tuesday, May 10, 2005, with regard to the assignment of Pavilion III, West Lawn. The Committee received the recommendation of the committee organized - under the terms of the Board of Visitors Pavilion Assignment Policy - to make such recommendations, and voted to assign the Pavilion to Ms. Patricia Lampkin, Vice President for Student Affairs, and her husband Mr. Wayne Cozart.

Ms. Lampkin's and Mr. Cozart's lease will commence in the summer of 2005 as soon as the necessary refurbishments have been done. The lease will run for five years with an option for renewal, on application, for a second term of five years.

ATTACHMENT B RESOLUTIONS FROM THE MEETING OF THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD MAY 12, 2005 ATTACHMENT BAPPROVAL OF TEMPORARY DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY REGARDING CREDENTIALING ACTIONSCREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS - MAY 12, 2005NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFREAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFSTATUS CHANGE TO CLINICAL STAFFRESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFFPRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSRENEWAL OF PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSSTATUS CHANGE FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSRESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board has the authority and responsibility for appointing and reappointing clinicians to the Clinical Staff of the Medical Center, as well as for granting appropriate clinical privileges to such clinicians and for granting appropriate clinical privileges to Allied Health Professionals and certain other healthcare practitioners to practice within the Medical Center; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board does not meet between spring and the fall of each year;

RESOLVED, the Medical Center Operating Board delegates to its Chair the authority to appoint and reappoint clinicians to the Clinical Staff of the Medical Center, and to grant appropriate clinical privileges to such clinicians and to grant appropriate clinical privileges to Allied Health Professionals and certain other healthcare practitioners to practice within the Medical Center as recommended to him by the Credentials Committee and the Clinical Staff Executive Committee from their May, June, July and August meetings each year; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that all such authority delegated to the Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board shall revert to the Medical Center Operating Board immediately upon the conclusion of the period delegated above.

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change in clinical privileges to the following practitioner is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change in privileges to the following Allied Health Professional is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

ATTACHMENT C RESOLUTIONS FROM THE MEETING OF THE BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE June 10, 2005 APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR ARTS GROUNDS PARKING GARAGEAPPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR EDUCATION SCHOOL BUILDINGAPPROVAL OF CONCEPT, SITE, AND DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE OBSERVATORY HILL RESIDENCE HALL (ALDERMAN ROAD RESIDENCE AREA REPLACEMENT HOUSING - PHASE 1) APPROVAL OF CONCEPT, SITE, AND DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE HEREFORD FIRST YEAR RESIDENCE HALL (ALDERMAN ROAD RESIDENCE AREA REPLACEMENT HOUSING - PHASE 1)APPROVAL OF CONCEPT, SITE, AND DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE MEDICAL EDUCATION BUILDING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Kimley Horn and Associates, Inc., of Chesapeake, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the University.

RESOLVED that Robert A. M. Stern Architects, LLP of New York, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the University.

RESOLVED that the concept, site, and design guidelines, dated June 10, 2005, and prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Observatory Hill Residence Hall (Alderman Road Residence Area Replacement Housing - Phase 1) are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

RESOLVED that the concept, site, and design guidelines, dated June 10, 2005, and prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Hereford First Year Residence Hall (Alderman Road Residence Area Replacement Housing - Phase 1) are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

RESOLVED that the concept, site, and design guidelines, dated June 10, 2005, and prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Medical Education Building are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.