 TEI to HTML

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS SEPTEMBER 30, 2005
---------------------------------------------------------------

Page

Approval of the Minutes of the June and July Meetings of the Board

6981

Addenda to the Agenda

6981

Acceptance of Gifts and Grants Report

6984

Establishment of the Buckner W. Clay Professorship

6987

Approval to Change the Name of the Centennial Distinguished Professorship in Pediatric Nursing to the Centennial Distinguished Professorship in Nursing

6987

Approval of the Board of Visitors Representatives to the Governing Boards of University-Related Foundations

6989

Approval of 2006-2008 Biennial Budget Request for the Academic Division, the Medical Center, and The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

6990

Approval of Intent to Issue Bonds for Capital Projects

6991

Approval of a Short-Term Loan for the Construction of the John Paul Jones Arena

6993

Authorization to Seek an Amendment to the Code of Virginia

6993

Approval of the Affiliation of the Rare Book School as a University-Related Foundation

6993

Approval to Raise the Minimum Endowment Levels

6994

Approval of Summary of Audit Findings

6995

Resolution Authorizing the University of Virginia Foundation to Purchase Property Located at 1011 Linden Avenue and 1021 Linden Avenue

6995

PAGE

Authorization for Certain Entitlements for the Spouse of the Chancellor of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

6995

Resolution of the Board of Visitors for the University of Virginia

6996

Approval of a Revised Concept for the South Lawn Project

6997

Approval of Architect Selection for South Lawn

6997

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

6998

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Election of Chairholders

7005

Change in the Title of the Election of Ms. Arlene W. Keeling

7007

Change in the Middle Initial in the Election of Mr. Jose D. Fuentes

7007

Change in the Effective Date of the Election for Mr. Matthew Neurock

7007

Change of Title of Chairholders

7008

Change in the Tiel of the Promotion of Mr. Scott T. Acton

7008

Change in the Title of the Promotion for Mr. Christopher D. Ingersoll

7008

Special Salary Action of Chairholders

7008

Retirement of Chairholders

7010

Resignation of Chairholders

7010

Promotion

7010

Change in the Title of the Promotion of Ms. Francesca Fiorani

7011

Cancellation of the Promotion of Mr. Chongchun Zeng

7011

Cancellation of the Promotion of Mr. Tarek F. Abdelzaher

7011

Change in the Title of the Promotion of Dr. John M. Castellano

7011

Change in the Title of the Promotion of Ms. Virginia T. Lyons

7012

Special Salary Actions

7012

Change in the Salary Action for Ms. Deborah A. Ryan

7017

Change in the Salary Action for Mr. Robert E. Emery

7017

Resignations

7017

Retirements

7021

PAGE

Appointments

7021

Re-appointments

7022

Election of Mr. William B. Harvey as Vice President and Chief Officer for Diversity and Equity

7022

Re-election of Dr. Robert E. Reynolds as Vice President> and Chief Information Officer

7022

Election of Professors Emeriti

7023

Election of Associate Professor Emerita

7023

Deaths

7023

The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

Elections

7024

Action Relating to Chairholder

7025

Promotions

7025

Special Salary Actions

7025

Election of Mr. J.A. (Jim) Knight as Interim Chancellor, The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

7026

2005-2006 Salary for President John T. Casteen, III

7027

Resolutions Adopted by the Executive Committee: Amending and Authorizing Commercial Paper General Revenue Pledge Notes and Authorizing General Revenue Pledge Bonds Approval of the Compliance Schedule Appointment of A. Macdonald Caputo to the Board of Directors of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company Appointment of Sam D. Graham, M.D., to the Medical Center Operating Board

7028

Resolutions Adopted by the Medical Center Operating Board Approval of Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Clinical Staff of the Medical Center Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions

7028

Resolutions Adopted by the Buildings and GroundsCommittee: Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the Hospital Bed Expansion Approval of Schematic Design for the School of Nursing Building Approval of Historic Preservation Framework Plan

7028

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS September 30, 2005
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 9:00 a.m, Friday, September 30, 2005, in the Board Room of the Rotunda; Thomas F. Farrell, II, Rector, presided. W. Heywood Fralin, A. Macdonald Caputo, Alan A. Diamonstein, Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, Ms. Georgia Willis Fauber, G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., Ms. Glynn D. Key, Mark J. Kington, Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr., Lewis F. Payne, Don R. Pippin, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Warren M. Thompson, John O. Wynne, and Ms. Catherine S. Neale were present.

Present as well were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, R. Ariel Gomez, M.D., R. Edward Howell, Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Ms. Yoke San L. Reynolds, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Robert D. Sweeney, David J. Prior, Craig K. Littlepage, Mark Bernardino, Brian Boland, George Gelnovatch, Kevin Sauer, Stephen Swanson, William B. Harvey, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Rector opened the meeting and asked Ms. Dorsey to lead the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.

APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE JUNE AND JULY MEETINGS OF THE BOARD
------------------------------------------------------------------

On motion, the Board voted to approve the Minutes of the June 10-11 and July 29-30 meetings of the Board.

ADDENDA TO THE AGENDA
---------------------

In accordance with the procedure specified in the Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector asked for a motion to approve the consideration of addenda to the published Agenda of the meeting. The motion was made and the Board voted to approve addition of the addenda to the Agenda.

THE CHANCELLOR OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE
--------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the trip that Members of the Board made to Wise earlier in the week, the highlights of the trip having been the chance it gave Members to meet the new Chancellor, and to meet with members of the Southwest Virginia General Assembly Delegation. Board Members also participated in the dedication of the statue of Thomas Jefferson, a recent gift to the College from the University.

At the Rector’s request, the President introduced Mr. David J. Prior, who assumed his duties as Chancellor of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise on September 1st.

Mr. Prior, who took the Ph.D. in Neurophysiology from the University in 1972, has come to Wise from the University of Wisconsin-Superior, where he was Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs.

ACC CERTIFICATION
-----------------

The Rector reminded the Board that under the rules of the Atlantic Coast Conference, he is required, at this time of the year, to certify that he has read to the Board a statement attesting to the fact that the direction of intercollegiate athletics at the University is under the supervision of the President. He read the necessary statement, supplied by the ACC, signed it and directed the Secretary to forward it to the Commissioner of the ACC.

PRESIDENT’S REPORT INTRODUCTION OF WILLIAM B. HARVEY GIFTS AND GRANTS REPORT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector asked the President to give his customary report.

The President introduced Mr. William B. Harvey, who has just been appointed Vice President and Chief Officer for Diversity and Equity. Mr. Harvey, who will assume his duties on November 1st, – the first person to have this title at the University – is at present the Vice President of the Center for Advancement of Racial and Ethnic Equity at the American Council on Education in Washington.

Mr. Harvey, the President explained, would speak later in the day at the Diversity Committee report session.

The President summarized racial and other incidents that have taken place since the University opened this fall. What has taken place has been the work of what he called “creeps,” not persons exercising their rights of freedom of speech and discourse. He emphasized the importance of police involvement in dealing with these incidents and cited examples of police investigations being hampered because of lack of timely notification of the incidents – part of the University’s response to these things has been a program to educate students to the importance of notifying the police immediately. Mr. Harvey had suggested the value of a public, symbolic show of solidarity, and the black ribbons worn by members of the University community over the last several weeks have been in response to his suggestion.

There has been good support from alumni on the wearing of ribbons, and good faculty support on making statements in the classroom. The General Counsel is looking into formal involvement by the University Judiciary Committee in dealing with racial incidents, and the President noted that with the principles of student self-governance in mind, the student leadership – as well as the faculty – must be involved in these efforts.

The General Counsel and several of the lawyer Members discussed the difficulties of the legalities of dealing with some of these issues. There was discussion, too, about the possibility of the Board raising the reward offered by the Alumni Association for information regarding the perpetrators of these incidents. Mr. Payne said it is important that the University emphasize publicly the positive things it has done in recent years to encourage minority students.

The President said it has been “a rough fall” for student abuse of alcohol, with increased arrests by the police for underage possession, and a rise in the number of alcohol- related hospital emergency room visits. There seems to be a pattern of this across the country, and he cited a series of mass arrests at Duke University this fall.

The President next gave a report on AccessUVa: a total of 749 students in the first year class are participating; 201 low-income students this year are eligible for a loan-free education; and 375 middle-income students will receive a combination of loans, grants, and work-study packages. He has found that donors are very interested in supporting the program.

The University this semester has admitted 116 undergraduates and 21 graduate students, chiefly from Tulane University, who were displaced when the New Orleans universities were forced to close because of Hurricane Katrina. Of the 137 students, 107 are Virginians.

The President reported that Mr. Terry Belanger, the Director of the Rare Book School – which is located in the Alderman Library – has been given a MacArthur Fellowship. He explained that the MacArthur Foundation awards so-called “Genius Grants” – a $500,000 stipend, with “no strings attached,” which is spread over five years. Mr. Belanger has said that he intends to use the money to support the Rare Book School.

The President said that opportunities are being explored to extend the University’s international reach, and he cited possibilities of areas in the world where the University might establish its presence.

The President gave the customary quarterly report on gifts and grants – his report covered the period May 1-August 31, 2005, as well as general figures for the past fiscal year.

The University and its related foundations finished Fiscal Year 2005 with a total of $183.5million in gifts – this represents an increase of $8.5million, or 4.9%, above the results of Fiscal Year 2004. For the current Fiscal Year (which began July 1) through August 31st, the total gifts received amounts to $23.7million, which is an increase of $5.2million, or 28%, over the same month last year.

The President listed some significant gifts received since the last Board meeting: an anonymous pledge payment of $5,127,362.80 to the McIntire School Foundation building campaign; a gift of $2,001,479.64 to the Law School Foundation for the Robert Morganthau Endowment Fund; a $1million pledge payment to the College Foundation from the Clay Foundation; a $5million pledge from the Clay Foundation to the College Foundation; a $5million pledge from the Smithfield-Luter Foundation to the Medical School for the Cancer Center; a pledge of $3,250,000 to the Miller Center Foundation from the Edward M. Kennedy Center for the Study of the United States Senate; a $2million pledge to the Miller Center Foundation from the Galbraith Foundation, Inc.; a pledge of $1,125,000 from Mr. Boyd Calvin Tinsley to the Virginia Athletics Foundation for the Indoor Tennis Practice Facility Fund; a $1million pledge from Mr. Gregory L. Curl to the Jefferson Scholars Foundation; and $1million from the Harrison Family Foundation pledged to the Jefferson Scholars Foundation.

APPROVAL OF THE GIFTS AND GRANTS REPORT
---------------------------------------

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors accepts the Gifts and Grants Report for the period May 1-August 31, 2005.

INTRODUCTION OF CHAMPIONSHIP COACHES
------------------------------------

The Rector asked Mr. Littlepage, Director of Athletics, to introduce the coaches of the five University of Virginia teams who won ACC championships in the last season. The coaches were Mr. Boland – Men’s Tennis, Mr. Sauer – Women’s Rowing, Mr. Gelnovatch – Men’s Soccer, Mr. Bernardino – Men’s Swimming, and Mr. Swanson – Women’s Soccer.

Mr. Swanson spoke briefly on behalf of his colleagues.

The Preliminary Session ended at 10:35.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
-----------------

After a short recess, the Board resumed at 10:45, in Open Session, to hear reports from the Committee Chairs on the work of their committees. Summaries of Committee activities may be found in the individual Minutes of these Committee meetings over the last month. Exceptions to this are the report sessions of the Wise and Diversity Committees at which Mr. Prior and Mr. Harvey, respectively, spoke; their remarks are summarized below.

All Members present at the Preliminary Session were in attendance, with the addition of Dr. Vaughan.

Mr. Prior spoke briefly to the mission and needs of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise, centering his remarks on the goals of the Wise Committee – which are the goals of the College – agreed to at the Board Retreat in July.

The Board recessed for lunch at 1:00 p.m., and resumed, in Open Session, at 1:55 p.m.

Mr. Harvey spoke to the strengths of the University and to the problems of this fall – “the best of times and the worst of times.” The job of insuring diversity at the University is a job, he said, “for all of us.” Among the strengths that can be built upon is not only the University’s firm commitment to diversity, but the affection and support of the University’s African-American alumni.

The reports of the Committee Chairs ended at 2:25 p.m.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------

After passing the following motions which, under the terms of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, permitted it to do so, the Board went into Executive Session at 2:30 p.m.:

That the Board of Visitors convene in Executive Session to consult with General Counsel regarding his privileged legal report to the Board on pending and anticipated litigation affecting the University, and on applicable legal considerations with respect to student discipline, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors, as part of our capital campaign planning, go into Executive Session to discuss and evaluate private gift development and fund-raising objectives and activities in order to ensure the private financing as may be needed to sustain and grow the University’s excellence and national ranking, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(4), (6) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss and evaluate with legal counsel existing and future negotiations concerning the provision of academic programs and services overseas, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (5), (6), (7), (8), and (30) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss and review, and to consult with the General Counsel, concerning the acquisition of specific real estate, with the proposed terms and testamentary intentions in connection therewith, where disclosure at this time would affect the University’s negotiation strategy, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(3), (6), (7) and (30) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to review as necessary with legal counsel our contract commitments in connection with the South Lawn Project and to identify and discuss necessary fund-raising for financing of the Project as currently planned, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(6),(7),(8) and (30) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and/or approving personnel actions involving the appointment, reappointment, nomination, evaluation, compensation, and resignation of specific University officers and employees as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board recessed at 3:55 p.m.

PROFESSORSHIPS AND NAMINGS ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BUCKNER W. CLAY PROFESSORSHIP APPROVAL TO CHANGE THE NAME OF THE CENTENNIAL DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN PEDIATRIC NURSING TO THE CENTENNIAL DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN NURSING LEWIS W. OEHMIG SHORT-GAME CENTER AT THE BIRDWOOD GOLF COURSE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board resumed in Open Session at 4:00 p.m. All Members, save Mr. Kington, were present.

The Board approved resolutions establishing the one Professorship and changing the name of another:

WHEREAS, the late Buckner W. Clay of Charleston, West Virginia, was a student at the University at the beginning of the Second World War; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Clay left the University in 1942 to serve with the American Field Service in North Africa and India; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Clay returned to Charleston after the War and subsequently was a co-founder of the Clay Foundation and a generous philanthropist in his native state; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Clay’s generous benefactions also supported the University of Virginia; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Hamilton Clay, Mr. Clay’s widow, has made a very generous gift to create a professorship in support of the Dean of Arts and Sciences;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors creates the Buckner W. Clay Professorship, to be designated for the Dean of the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and thanks Mrs. Clay for her generosity.

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors in 2000 created the Centennial Distinguished Professorship in Pediatric Nursing in accordance with the wishes of a very generous anonymous donor; and

WHEREAS, the School of Nursing, with the agreement of the donor, wishes to broaden the scope of the Professorship by changing the name and charge;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors changes the Centennial Distinguished Professorship in Pediatric Nursing to the Centennial Distinguished Professorship in Nursing, to be held in the School of Nursing, and once more expresses its gratitude for the generosity of the donor.

The Board then heard a report on the naming of the Lewis W. Oehmig Short-Game Center at the Birdwood Golf Course.

The late Lewis W. Oehmig (1916-2002) of Chattanooga was well known as an alumnus of the University, as a champion golfer, and as a respected citizen of his city. He was Captain of the Golf Team as a student, when he began winning tournaments – a habit which he continued until 1985. He was given the Bob Jones Award for distinguished sportsmanship in golf in 1994, the highest award given by the United States Golf Association.

The Oehmig Short Game Center is to be located between holes one, two and three at the Birdwood Golf Course. It will include a large putting area and four chipping/pitching/target greens from 165 yards and in.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------

The Board resumed in Executive Session at 4:15 p.m., and continued until 5:25, when it approved the following resolution:

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member’s knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

FINAL SESSION APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS REPRESENTATIVES TO THE GOVERNING BOARDS OF UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONS APPROVAL OF 2006-2008 BIENNIAL BUDGET REQUEST FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION, THE MEDICAL CENTER, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE APPROVAL OF INTENT TO ISSUE BONDS FOR CAPITAL PROJECTS APPROVAL OF A SHORT-TERM LOAN FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE JOHN PAUL JONES ARENA AUTHORIZATION TO SEEK AN AMENDMENT TO THE CODE OF VIRGINIA APPROVAL OF THE AFFILIATION OF THE RARE BOOK SCHOOL AS A UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATION APPROVAL TO RAISE THE MINIMUM ENDOWMENT LEVELS APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGSRESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FOUNDATION TO PURCHASE PROPERTY LOCATED AT 1011 LINDEN AVENUE AND 1021 LINDEN AVENUEAUTHORIZATION FOR CERTAIN ENTITLEMENTS FOR THE SPOUSE OF THE CHANCELLOR OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA APPROVAL OF A REVISED CONCEPT FOR THE SOUTH LAWN PROJECTAPPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR SOUTH LAWN
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Foundation

Board of VisitorsRepresentative

Term Ending

Alumni Association of the University of Virginia

Glynn D. Key

05/30/08

Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund

J. Davis Hamlin

12/31/08\*

The College Foundation ofthe University of Virginia

Timothy B. Robertson

12/31/08\*

The University of Virginia’s College at Wise Alumni Association and Wise Foundation

Don R. Pippin

06/30/07

Curry School of Education

Georgia Willis Fauber

12/31/09\*

Darden School Foundation

Thomas F. Farrell, II

12/31/09\*

Foundation of the State Arboretum at Blandy Experimental Farm

Laura F. Hawthorne

12/31/08\*

Healthcare Partners, Inc.

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

06/30/06

University of Virginia Health Services Foundation

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

12/31/08\*

Jefferson Institute forLifelong Learning (JILL)

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

12/31/09\*

Law School Alumni Association and Law School Foundation, University of Virginia

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

12/31/08\*

Foundation

Board of VisitorsRepresentative

Term Ending

McIntire School of Commerce Foundation

Georgia Willis Fauber

06/30/07

Medical School Alumni Associationand Medical School Foundation, University of Virginia

Sam D. Graham, Jr., M.D.

05/31/09\*

Miller Center Foundation

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

06/30/07

Patent Foundation, University of Virginia

Terence P. Ross

06/30/07

School of Architecture Foundation

Susan Y. Dorsey

06/30/07

University of Virginia Foundation and Subsidiaries

W. Heywood Fralin

06/30/08

University of Virginia HealthFoundation

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

06/30/07

University of Virginia InvestmentManagement Corporation

John O. Wynne

06/30/08

Virginia EngineeringFoundation

Kenneth M. Humphries

12/31/09\*

Virginia Athletic Foundation

Craig K. Littlepage

12/31/05

Virginia Tax Foundation, Inc.

Joseph E. Gibson

12/31/04

\* Denotes ratification required by the Board of Visitors

Level

U.Va. (old level)

U.Va. (PROPOSED LEVEL)

$5.0 Million

Deanship

$2.0 Million

21st Century Chair

Professorship (initial level for full professorship)

$1.0 Million

Distinguished Professorship

“\[Named\] Faculty Fund for Excellence \[in \_\_\_\_\_\]” (partial support)

$500,000

Chair (Eminent Scholar)

“\[Named\] Research Fund” (partial support)

The Board began the Final Session of its meeting, in Open Session, 5:25 p.m.; all members save Ms. Key, Messrs, Kington and Mastracco, were present.

The Board approved the following resolutions:

RESOLVED that the following persons are ratified or confirmed as representatives of the Board of Visitors to the governing boards of the following University-Related Foundations:

WHEREAS, the University’s 2006-2008 biennial budget request has been reviewed carefully; and

WHEREAS, the biennial budget request represents the highest priority initiatives and is aligned with the mission of the institution;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia endorses and supports the 2006-2008 biennial budget request; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors understands that to the extent these initiatives are not included in the Governor’s 2006-2008 biennial budget, the Academic Division, the Medical Center, and The University of Virginia’s College at Wise may want to pursue similar requests to the legislature; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to transmit to the General Assembly any request not funded by the Governor as long as there are no material differences from the items already endorsed by the Board of Visitors.

WHEREAS, the University intends to undertake the following capital project with bond financing as a funding source:

WHEREAS, the United States Department of the Treasury has promulgated final regulations in Section l.l50-2 of the Treasury Regulations (“the Regulations”) governing when the allocation of bond proceeds to reimburse expenditures previously made by a borrower shall be treated as an expenditure of the bond proceeds; and

WHEREAS, the Regulations require a declaration of official intent by a borrower to provide evidence that the borrower intended to reimburse such expenditures with proceeds of its bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia desires to make such a declaration of official intent as required by the Regulations; and

WHEREAS, the University may be required to provide short-term financing to this project prior to issuing long-term debt in order to implement an efficient and timely construction schedule; and

WHEREAS, the University has funding mechanisms to accommodate short-term financing needs, defined as a period of less than sixty months; and

WHEREAS, the authority for the University to issue long-term bonds for this project listed is not included in this resolution and will be addressed in a future bond issuance resolution; and

WHEREAS, if the University arranges short-term financing for a particular project, and if the project is not ultimately completed, or if the project utilizes funding sources other than bonds, then the appropriate school or unit remains responsible for refunding the short-term obligation;

RESOLVED that, pursuant to the terms of the Regulations, the University of Virginia declares its intent to reimburse expenditures in accordance with the following:

RESOLVED FURTHER, that this project is a separate enterprise independent of other projects, and that the authorization for funding relates to this individual project; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, funds may be borrowed for this project on a short-term basis, but only if the following conditions are met:

WHEREAS, the John Paul Jones Arena Project requires short-term funding in anticipation of the receipt of pledged donations;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves a short-term loan, or loans, of up to $20 million for a term of up to four years for the purpose of providing short-term financing in anticipation of the collection of pledged gifts associated with this project; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute all necessary documents to effect the short-term loan(s).

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors authorizes the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University to work with the General Assembly and the appropriate officers of the Commonwealth to seek an amendment to the Code of Virginia that will allow the use of alternative short-term investment vehicles, under the Investment of Public Funds Act, to improve the returns on reserve funds held by the University.

WHEREAS, The Policy on University-Related Foundations requires that the designation of new University-related foundations be approved by the Board of Visitors; and

WHEREAS, the Rare Book School’s mission complements the work of the University Library; and

WHEREAS, the Rare Book School has modified its articles of incorporation and bylaws to comply with the Policy on University-Related Foundations, including the requirement that the Board of Visitors and the University’s President designate representatives to the foundation’s board; and

WHEREAS, the University’s administration recommends that the Board of Visitors approve the affiliation of the Rare Book School as a University-related foundation;

RESOLVED that the affiliation of the Rare Book School as a University-related foundation is approved, subject to the requirements of the University Policy on University- Related Foundations.

WHEREAS, professorships and deanships, whether honorary or endowed, must be approved by the Board of Visitors; and

WHEREAS, the Vice President for Development and Public Affairs, in close collaboration with University deans and administrators, has proposed new minimum funding levels for deanships and professorships, levels which are in line with those at peer institutions and with the actual costs of funding professorships and deanships; and

WHEREAS, the University’s administration recommends approval of the proposed new minimum endowment levels;

RESOLVED that new minimum endowment levels, as set forth below, are approved and adopted, and will take effect January 1, 2006:

On approval by the Board of Visitors, the new professorship endowment levels will go into effect University-wide on January 1, 2006. Therefore professorship endowment agreements executed after December 31, 2005, will be at the new level. Professorships created, but partially funded, prior to January 1, 2006, will be grandfathered in at the old level.

While $2 million is the new minimum level for a full professorship, schools and units will be encouraged to create higher minimum levels for professorships if they choose.

Note that exceptions to the new minimum professorship levels will be considered on a case-by-case basis by the Gift Policy Committee and/or the President of the University.

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period of May 1, 2005, through August 15, 2005, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit & Compliance Committee.

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors authorizes the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, with the concurrence of the Chair of the Finance Committee, to approve the negotiation and purchase by the University of Virginia Foundation of property located at 1011 Linden Avenue and 1021 Linden Avenue, which consists of 94,787 square feet in the City of Charlottesville. The purchase price for the property shall be negotiated by the University of Virginia Foundation and approved by the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and by the Chair of the Finance Committee.

WHEREAS, the spouse of the Chancellor of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise traditionally has participated in organizing and presiding over many important functions and activities at the College, and often serves as an official representative of the College together with the Chancellor; and

WHEREAS, while the Chancellor’s spouse is not compensated directly for the time and effort devoted to such activities at the College, the Board of Visitors recognizes the value of these contributions and accordingly wishes to provide for reimbursement of reasonable expenses and access to travel services available to employees of the College at Wise;

RESOLVED, the spouse of the Chancellor of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise shall be reimbursed for reasonable expenses, and be entitled to travel and transportation services, in connection with College functions and activities, from non- state or foundation resources available to the College at Wise and in accordance with established rules applicable to agents and employees of the College at Wise.

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors wishes to formally express its support of and gratitude to our President, the Faculty Senate, student leaders, members of the administration, faculty and students, and our police, for their unity and solidarity in public condemnation of racial intolerance; and

WHEREAS, the Board commends particularly the Vice President and Chief Student Affairs Officer and her staff for the quality of their service to abused students and their families; and

WHEREAS, the foregoing is a necessary and powerful component to the Board’s effort to promote equal educational opportunity for all members of the University’s academic community; and.

WHEREAS, it is the firm position of the Board of Visitors that racial intolerance and bigotry on any level at the University is inherently incompatible with the University’s educational mission, and repugnant to individual liberty and equity;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors wishes to make clear that any threatening conduct or act of intimidation directed personally at or against any member of the University community because of his or her race, national origin, gender, religion, disability, sexual orientation or other prohibited basis, will not be tolerated and will be appropriately disciplined in accordance with University policy and applicable law. The Board expects vigorous investigation and enforcement of all University policies, including its Standards of Conduct and Discriminatory Harassment Policy, and further calls upon the University community to report promptly any and all threats and other personal abuse to the police for criminal investigation; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Board of Visitors requests the Chair of its Student Affairs and Athletics Committee to reaffirm this position of the Board with the students responsible for enforcing the University’s Standards of Conduct; and to affirm that the Board welcomes recommended changes in policy that will further these expectations, and which have the support of General Counsel for legal sufficiency.

WHEREAS, the University wishes to proceed with a Phase I of the South Lawn project that meets the needs of the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and can be achieved within expected financial resources; and

WHEREAS, a Decision Brief dated September 30, 2005, has been developed that outlines the basic parameters of the new Phase I project which includes not less than 100,000 gross square feet of classroom and office space, a plaza over Jefferson Park Avenue, and parking and carries with it a budget of $105 million;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors agrees in concept to the parameters as outlined in the Decision Brief; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that this action supersedes all previous actions related to the South Lawn project.

RESOLVED that Moore Ruble Yudell, of Santa Monica, California, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the South Lawn.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Election of Chairholders(b) Change in the Title of the Election of Ms. Arlene W. Keeling(c) Change in the Middle Initial in the Election of Mr. Jose D. Fuentes(d) Change in the Effective Date of the Election for Mr. Matthew Neurock(e) Change of Title of Chairholders(f) Change in title of the Promotion for Mr. Scott T. Acton(g) Change in the title of the Promotion for Mr. Christopher D. Ingersoll (h) Special Salary Action of Chairholders (i) Retirement of Chairholders(j) Resignation of ChairholdersPROMOTIONCHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE PROMOTION OF MS. FRANCESCA FIORANICANCELLATION OF THE PROMOTION OF MR. CHONGCHUN ZENGCANCELLATION OF THE PROMOTION OF MR. TAREK F. ABDELZAHERCHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE PROMOTION OF DR. JOHN M. CASTELLANOCHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE PROMOTION OF MS. VIRGINIA T. LYONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSCHANGE IN THE SALARY ACTION FOR MS. DEBORAH A. RYANCHANGE IN THE SALARY ACTION FOR MR. ROBERT E. EMERYRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTSAPPOINTMENTSRE-APPOINTMENTSELECTION OF MR. WILLIAM B. HARVEY AS VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OFFICER FOR DIVERSITY AND EQUITYRE-ELECTION OF DR. ROBERT E. REYNOLDS AS VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICERELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITIELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITADEATHS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the title of the election of Ms. Arlene W. Keeling as Centennial Distinguished Professor of Pediatric Nursing, effective August 25, 2005, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated June 9-11, 2005, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the middle initial in the election of Mr. Jose E. Fuentes as Cavaliers' Distinguished Teaching Associate Professor, for two years, effective June 25, 2005, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated March 31-April 2, 2005, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the effective date of the election for Mr. Matthew Neurock as Alice M. and Guy A. Wilson Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective May 25, 2005, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated March 31-April 2, 2005, be changedto read as follows:

RESOLVED that the title of the promotion for Mr. Scott T. Acton from Walter N. Munster Associate Professor of Research in Intelligence Enhancement and Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering to Walter N. Munster P rofessor of Research in Intelligence Enhancement and Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective August 25, 2005, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated June 9-11, 2005, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the title of the promotion for Mr. Christopher D. Ingersoll from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective August 25, 2005, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated June 9-11, 2005, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the following person is promoted:

RESOLVED that the title of the promotion for Ms. Francesca Fiorani from Assistant Professor of Art to Associate Professor of Art, effective August 25, 2005, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated June 9-11, 2005, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the promotion of Mr. Chongchun Zeng from Assistant Professor of Mathematics to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective August 25, 2005, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated June 9-11, 2005, be cancelled. Mr. Zeng resigned on May 24, 2005.

RESOLVED that the promotion of Mr. Tarek F. Abdelzaher from Assistant Professor of Computer Science to Associate Professor of Computer Science, effective August 25, 2005, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated June 9-11, 2005, be cancelled. Mr. Abdelzaher resigned on August 24, 2005.

RESOLVED that the promotion of Dr. John M. Castellano from Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology to Associate Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 2005, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated June 9-11, 2005, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the promotion of Ms. Virginia T. Lyons from Assistant Professor of Cell Biology to Associate Professor of Cell Biology, for three years, effective July 1, 2005, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated June 9-11, 2005, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

RESOLVED that the special salary action for Ms. Deborah A. Ryan, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective June 25, 2004, at an annual salary of $209,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated February 3-5, 2005, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the special salary action for Mr. Robert E. Emery, Professor of Psychology, effective August 25, 2005, at an annual salary of $136,700, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated June 9-11, 2005, be changed to read as follows:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirements were announced:

The following appointments were announced:

The following re-appointments were announced:

RESOLVED that Mr. William B. Harvey is elected Vice President and Chief Officer for Diversity and Equity, for five years, effective October 25, 2005.

RESOLVED that Dr. Robert E. Reynolds is re-elected Vice President and Chief Information Officer, for six months or until a new Vice President and Chief Information Officer is elected, effective July 25, 2005.

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Associate Professor Emerita:

The following deaths were announced:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISEELECTIONSACTION RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDER(a) Special Salary Action of ChairholderPROMOTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSELECTION OF MR. J. A. (JIM) KNIGHT AS INTERIM CHANCELLOR, THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the action relating to the chairholder is approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

RESOLVED that Mr. J. A. (Jim) Knight is elected Interim Chancellor, The University of Virginia’s College at Wise, for the period July 1, 2005, through August 31, 2005, at an annual salary of $195,000.

2005-2006 SALARY FOR PRESIDENT JOHN T. CASTEEN, III
---------------------------------------------------

President John T. Casteen, III

Actual as of 11/25/04

Proposed as of 11/25/05

Percent Increase

State

$155,964

162,826

4.4%

Bonus (5%)

7,571

7,798

Total Salary, excluding local supplement

163,535

170,624

4.3%

Local supplement

264,036

278,674

5.5%

Bonus

11,179

13,202

Total local supplement

275,215

291,876

6.1%

Total Salary

420,000

441,500

Deferred Compensation

195,000

200,000

Total Bonus

18,750

21,000

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia approve the following 2005-2006 salary recommendation for the President of the University of Virginia:

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 5:35 p.m.

RESOLUTIONS NOT REQUIRING ACTION BY THE FULL BOARD MEETING OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON JUNE 28, 2005 (Attachment A) MEETING OF THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD ON SEPTEMBER 1, 2005(Attachment B) MEETING OF THE BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE ON SEPTEMBER 16, 2005(Attachment C)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There follows a listing of resolutions adopted by Board Committees since the June Board meeting; these are resolutions which do not require action by the full Board. They are listed in these Minutes as a matter of record.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: September 30, 2005 CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session – as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia – only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration in closed session.

ATTACHMENT A RESOLUTIONS FROM THE MEETING OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE JUNE 28, 2005 MEETING OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON JUNE 28, 2005 • AMENDING AND AUTHORIZING COMMERCIAL PAPER GENERAL REVENUE PLEDGE NOTES AND AUTHORIZING GENERAL REVENUE PLEDGE BONDS• APPROVAL OF THE COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE • APPOINTMENT OF A. MACDONALD CAPUTO TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY • APPOINTMENT OF SAM D. GRAHAM, M.D., TO THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Chapter 9, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended, establishes a public corporation under the name and style of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia which is governed by a Board of Visitors; and

WHEREAS, Chapter 3, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia classifies the University of Virginia as an educational institution, declares it to be a public body and constitutes it a governmental instrumentality for the dissemination of education; and

WHEREAS, this Act empowers the University of Virginia, with the consent and approval of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia and the Governor of the Commonwealth to build, construct, reconstruct, erect, extend, better, equip and improve any building, facility, addition, extension, or improvement of a capital nature required by or convenient for the purposes of the University of Virginia and to borrow money and make, issue, and sell bonds of the University of Virginia for any such purposes, including the refinancing of any such facilities; and

WHEREAS, this Act further authorizes the University of Virginia to pledge to the payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds any monies available for the use of the University of Virginia including, but not limited to, and subject to guidelines promulgated by the Secretary of Finance of the Commonwealth of Virginia, monies appropriated to the University of Virginia from the general funds of the Commonwealth of Virginia or from non-general funds, without regard to the source of such monies, and which are not required by law or by previous binding contract to be devoted to some other purpose; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to a resolution adopted on June 11, 2005, by the Board of Visitors that the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the existing short-term commercial paper program at any time should not exceed $175,000,000; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the same resolution adopted on June 11, 2005, the Board of Visitors determined to finance (i) the construction of a new 15,000-seat Arena and Special Events facility, (ii) the Hospital Expansion Project, which consists of an addition, renovation, fit-out of an additional floor and equipment including an additional chiller, (iii) the construction of a new addition to the Health Science Center South Parking Garage, (iv) the acquisition of a clinics building at the Fontaine Research Park from the University of Virginia Foundation on behalf of the Medical Center; the construction and fit-out of additional space not provided by the University of Virginia Foundation; and purchase and installation of equipment; (v) the construction of a new building on behalf of the National Radio Astronomy Observatory, (vi) the construction of a new 120-bed residential dormitory facility at The University of Virginia’s College at Wise, (vii) the installation of environmental upgrades and the performance of other mandated maintenance work at the University of Virginia’s Main Heating Plant; (viii) the renovation to the existing Rouss Hall Building and the construction of additional space, and (ix) the refunding of all or a portion of the outstanding principal amount of the University of Virginia’s general revenue pledge bonds, Series 1998A; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors anticipates that the bonds will be secured by a general revenue pledge of the University of Virginia and not be in any way a debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia and shall not create or constitute any indebtedness or obligation of the Commonwealth of Virginia, either legal, moral or otherwise; and

WHEREAS, for the purpose of providing funds to finance or refinance the acquisition, construction and equipping of these projects, the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors, pursuant to the powers granted it under Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, has determined to adopt the attached Resolution (the “Series 2005 Resolution”) authorizing the issuance of general revenue pledge bonds of the University of Virginia as Series 2005 Bonds (the “Series 2005 Bonds”); and,

WHEREAS, for the purpose of providing funds to facilitate the short-term financing of capital projects, the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors, pursuant to the powers granted it under Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, has determined to adopt a resolution (the “Commercial Paper Series 2003A and 2003B Resolution”) amending and authorizing the issuance of general revenue pledge notes of the University of Virginia as Commercial Paper Series 2003A and 2003B notes (the “Commercial Paper Series 2003A and 2003B Notes”).

RESOLVED, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, approves the following: The Series 2005 Resolution, and the Commercial Paper Series 2003A and 2003B Resolution.

RESOLVED that the Compliance Schedule for the period July 1, 2005, through June 30, 2006, as presented by the Corporate Compliance Officer, is approved as recommended by the Audit & Compliance Committee.

RESOLVED that A. Macdonald Caputo of Greenwich, Connecticut, is appointed to the Board of Directors of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company. Mr. Caputo’s appointment is effective July 1, 2005, and he shall serve in this capacity until June 30, 2008.

RESOLVED that Sam D. Graham, Jr., M.D., of Richmond is appointed a public, non-voting member of the Medical Center Operating Board, effective July 1, 2005. Dr. Graham’s term will expire on June 30, 2009.

ATTACHMENT B RESOLUTIONS FROM THE MEETING OF THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD SEPTEMBER 1, 2005 APPROVAL OF AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS OF THE CLINICAL STAFF OF THE MEDICAL CENTER RECOMMENDATION REGARDING MEDICAL CENTER INPATIENT BED EXPANSION CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF STATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFF SECONDARY REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF RESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFF PRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS RENEWAL OF PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS RESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board has reviewed the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Clinical Staff of the Medical Center;

RESOLVED that the Medical Center Operating Board approves the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Clinical Staff of the Medical Center. These amendments, which are appended to this Resolution as an Attachment, shall be effective September 1, 2005. (N.B.: In these Minutes, this Attachment is listed as Attachment B)

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board has reviewed the options regarding increasing inpatient capacity for the Medical Center;

RESOLVED, the Medical Center Operating Board approves, and recommends to the Buildings and Grounds Committee for design approvals and to the Finance Committee for financing approvals, the Medical Center Inpatient Bed Expansion project; this project is to add up to 130 inpatient beds to the existing hospital facility.

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status changes in clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for secondary reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioner is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

ATTACHMENT C RESOLUTIONS FROM THE MEETING OF THE BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE SEPTEMBER 16, 2005APPROVAL OF CONCEPT, SITE, AND DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE HOSPITAL BED EXPANSION APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE SCHOOL OF NURSING BUILDING APPROVAL OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION FRAMEWORK PLAN ATTACHMENT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the concept, site, and design guidelines, dated September 16, 2005, and prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Hospital Bed Expansion are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated September 16, 2005, and prepared by Bowie Gridley Architects of Washington, D.C., for the School of Nursing Building, is approved for further development and construction.

WHEREAS, the University is the steward of many significant historic buildings and landscapes, including Thomas Jefferson’s Academical Village - a World Heritage site; and

WHEREAS, the Office of the Architect has completed a Historic Preservation Framework Plan to ensure appropriate stewardship and planning for the University’s historic buildings and landscapes, which postdate the Jeffersonian buildings; and

WHEREAS, the Plan establishes a base level of consistent research and documentation for significant or contributing historic structures and landscapes on the University’s main Grounds; and

WHEREAS, the evaluation criteria used, and the preservation priority categories established, are enumerated in the Attachment to this Resolution;

RESOLVED the Historic Preservation Framework Plan is approved.

The Plan has 1) described and documented through consistent narratives and graphics the general appearance, significant features, and histories of these buildings and landscapes, 2) evaluated their integrity and significance, their interior and exterior architectural elements, physical or historical context, and other contributing qualities and developed priorities for preservation and maintenance, 3) analyzed the potential for adaptive use of these buildings, and 4) prepared preservation guidelines defining preferred preservation treatment and maintenance practices.

The Office of the Architect for the University developed four evaluation criteria: 1) association with people or events important to the University’s history, 2) quality of the original design, 3) integrity of the design, and 4) condition of the building and site.

The Office of the Architect for the University developed six preservation priority categories: 1) fundamental to University history and present character, 2) essential to University history and present character, 3) important to University history and present character, 4) contributing to University history and present character, 5) not contributing, and 6) of consideration outside of University context.