 TEI to HTML

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS FEBRUARY 3, 2006
-------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Approval of the Minutes of the September 24, and September 30, 2005 Meeting of the Board

7035

Additions to the Agenda

7036

Acceptance of Gifts and Grants Report

7042

Ratification of Additional 2006-2008 Budget Amendments For the University of Virginia

7043

Approval of WTJU's 2004-2005 Annual Report

7043

Approval of Easements at Blandy Farm

7043

Approval of Student Housing Rates for 2006-2007

7044

Approval of 2006-2007 Tuition and Fees for Certain Programs

7048

Approval to Amend Fraternity and Sorority Investment Program to Allow for Loans for the Purpose of Acquiring Off-Grounds Properties

7048

Amendment to the Approval Limits for Individual Quasi- Endowment Transactions

7049

Approval to Establish a New Degree Program: B.S. in Software Engineering at The University of Virginia's College at Wise

7049

Approval of Summary of Audit Findings

7050

Memorial Resolution on Carl W. Smith

7050

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

7051

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Election of Chairholders

7053

Correction to the Change of the Title and the Term of the Chairholder Election of Ms. Arlene W. Keeling

7054

Page

Actions Relating to Chairholders - continued

Change in the Term of the Chairholder Election of Ms. Elizabeth I. Merwin

7054

Change in the Term of the Chairholder Election of Ms. Barbara J. Parker

7055

Special Salary Action of Chairholders

7055

Retirement of Chairholders

7056

Change in the Title of the Retirement of Dr. Martha A. Carpenter

7056

Resignation of Chairholder

7056

Promotion

Special Salary Actions

7056

Resignations

7060

Retirements

7062

Appointments

7062

Re-appointments

7063

Election of Mr. James L. Hilton as Vice President and Chief Information Officer

7064

Change in the Term of the Re-election of Mr. R. Edward Howell as Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the University of Virginia Medical Center

7064

Election of Professors Emeriti

7064

Change in the Title of the Emeritus Action for Dr. Martha A. Carpenter

7065

Deaths

7065

The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Change in the Salary of the Election of Mr. Michael T. McGill, Jr.

7066

Special Salary Actions

7066

Change in the Effective Date of the Special Salary Action for Mr. J. A. (Jim) Knight

7066

Resignation

7067

Death

7067

Appointment of Non-Voting Student Member to the Board Of Visitors

7067

Procedure for Approving Proposed Legislation

7067

Establishment of the Harrison Distinguished Teaching Professorships

7068

Establishment of the Edwin P. Lehman Professorship in Surgery

7068

Page

Establishment of the Stanton P. Nolan Professorship in Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery

7069

Establishment of the Jay Berkowitz Professorship in Jewish History

7070

Naming of the Claude Moore Medical Education Building

7070

Resolutions Adopted by the Executive Committee: Approval of Management Agreement, Policies, and Performance Measures Lease for Pavilion IV, Pavilion IX, Pavilion X and Montebello

7073

Resolutions Adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee - November 7, 2005 Approval of Architect Selection for Observatory Hill Residence Hall (Alderman Road Residence Area Replacement Housing - Phase I) Approval of Architect Selection for Hereford First Year Residence Hall (Alderman Road Residence Area Replacement Housing - Phase 1) Approval of Architect Selection for Medical Education School Building Approval of Engineer Selection for South Chiller Plant Addition Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the South Chiller Plant Addition

7073

Resolutions Adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee - December 15, 2005 Approval of Architect Selection for the Hospital Bed Expansion Project Approval of Deed Restriction for Recoupment Room and the Land Directly Below Such Room at the University's Environmental Health and Safety Special Materials Handling Facility

7073

PAGE

Resolutions Adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee - January 20, 2006 Approval of Schematic Design for the Arts Grounds Parking Garage Approval of the 2005-2015 Campus Plan for The University of Virginia's College at Wise Approval of the Revised Schematic Design for the Renovation of Crockett Hall at The University of Virginia's College at Wise Approval of Schematic Design for the New Main Entrance at The University of Virginia's College at Wise

7074

Resolution Adopted by the Medical Center Operating Board Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions

7074

Resolution Adopted by the Special Committee on Diversity Committee's Goal on Supplier Diversity

7074

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS February 3, 2006
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 8:00 a.m., Friday, February 3, 2006, in the Board Room of the Rotunda; Thomas F. Farrell, II, Rector, presided.

W. Heywood Fralin, A. Macdonald Caputo, Alan A. Diamonstein, Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, Ms. Georgia Willis Fauber, G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., Ms. Glynn D. Key, Mark J. Kington, Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr., Lewis F. Payne, Don R. Pippin, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Warren M. Thompson, E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., John O. Wynne, and Ms. Catherine S. Neale were present.

Also present were Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D., R. Ariel Gomez, M.D., William B. Harvey, R. Edward Howell, Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Ms. Yoke San L. Reynolds, Ms. Colette Sheehy, David J. Prior, Ms. Barbara Deily, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Rector opened the meeting and asked Mr. Kington to lead the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.

APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE SEPTEMBER 24, AND SEPTEMBER 30, 2005 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector asked for a motion to approve the Minutes of the September 24, and September 30, meetings of the Board. On motion, the Minutes of the two meetings were approved.

THE MITCHELL SCHOLARS
---------------------

The Rector told the Board that two recent alumni, Margaret Brennan (College '02) and Aaron Kurman (College '05), have been named Mitchell Scholars for the academic year which begins in the fall. Mitchell Scholarships are for study in Ireland, both in the Republic and in Ulster; Ms. Brennan will be at University College, Dublin, and Mr. Kurman will be at the University of Ulster. The University currently has one Mitchell Scholar in Dublin.

With the Board concurring, the Rector directed the Secretary to write to Ms. Brennan and Mr. Kurman to express the Board's pride in their accomplishments and congratulations on their Scholarships.

RESOLUTION FOR ADDITIONS TO THE AGENDA
--------------------------------------

Pursuant to the rules set forth in the Board Manual, the Rector asked for a motion to permit the consideration of items proposed after the publication of the Agenda.

On motion, the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the addition of items to the Agenda, for consideration by the Board.

COMMITTEE REPORTSBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEMEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARDAUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE AND REPORT BY THE AUDITOR OF PUBLIC ACCOUNTS OF THE COMMONWEALTHEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEEXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEEFINANCE COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEECOMMITTEE ON THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISESPECIAL COMMITTEE ON DIVERSITY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board next heard reports from the various Committee Chairs on the meetings of their respective Committees on January 19th and 20th. The substance of these reports may be seen in the Minutes of the various Committee meetings. Resolutions adopted by the Committees and which require approval by the full Board will be found further on in these Minutes, as will resolutions on which the Committees took final action. All resolutions, of course, appear as well in the various Committee Minutes.

The Committee reports were as follows:

Mr. Kington, the Chair, reported on the meeting of the Committee which was held on January 20th. At the conclusion of his report, there was discussion by various Members about the design of the South Lawn project: Mr. Fralin and Mr. Pippin, in particular, emphasized the necessity of having a well thought out and considered design, and they and Mr. Rainey said more work needed to be done and that the Board had an obligation to assume responsibility for this. The Rector commented that he thought the Board would not approve the design represented in the conceptual sketches shown to the Committee at its meeting.

Dr. Vaughan, the Chair, reported on the meeting held on December 15, 2005.

Ms. Fauber, the Chair, reported on the meeting of the Committee held on January 20th.

The Winter Board meeting is the meeting at which the Auditor of Public Accounts of the Commonwealth customarily meets with the Board to discuss his annual audit of the University. Mr. Kucharski, the Auditor, was detained in Richmond with General Assembly business, so he sent the Deputy Auditor, Mr. William Cole, in his stead. As copies of the Auditor's report had been distributed previously to the Board, Mr. Cole referred Members to the Auditor's comments and led a discussion.

As is customary, the Board, on motion, went into Executive Session at 9:05 a.m., to meet privately with the Auditor.

That the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Executive Session to review and discuss audit of specific University and Medical Center departments including consulting with General Counsel on compliance with federal CMS regulations. Our oversight review will involve evaluating the performance of specific University managers and personnel and, in the case of the Medical Center, evaluation of its proprietary business- related information relating to adequacy of billing documentation and fiscal management practices where disclosure at this time would adversely affect the competitive position of the Medical Center. This is provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1), (7) and (23) of the Code of Virginia.

After certifying the following resolution that its discussions in Executive Session had been conducted in accord with the exemptions permitted by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, the Committee resumed in Open Session at 9:25 a.m.:

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

The Chair, Ms. Key, reported on the meeting of the Committee held on January 20th. In doing so, she highlighted the University's graduation rates, particularly the Black graduation rate. Mr. Block, the Provost, and Ms. Fraser, Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement, assisted with the Chair's report. Ms. Fraser also led a brief discussion on faculty recruitment and retention.

Mr. Payne, the Chair, reported on the meeting of the Committee held on January 19th. At the conclusion of his report, he asked Mr. Rainey, as National Chair of the Capital Campaign, to report briefly on the progress of the Campaign, as he had done during the Committee meeting on January 19th.

Mr. Fralin, the Chair, reported on the meeting of the Committee held on January 19th. The Rector commented on the excellent performance of the Endowment and asked Mr. Wynne, as Chair of the Board of the University of Virginia Investment Company (UVIMCO), to report on it to the full Board.

Ms. Dorsey, the Chair, reported on the meeting of the Committee held on January 19th.

Subsequent to the January meeting of the Committee, which is to say at the end of registration for the second semester, there were significant problems with ISIS, the computer system used for a range of matters concerning students, particularly class information and registration. Ms. Dorsey asked Dr. Reynolds, Vice President and Chief Information Officer, to report.

Dr. Reynolds said the system was set up in the 1980s for use by Admissions and other offices; it was not initially intended for general use by students. Parts of the system are outmoded and some are working beyond capacity. He then described efforts that are being undertaken to rectify the system in light of the recent problems. One solution is to replace the system, but that would be four years off. Consultants have been retained to devise interim solutions.

The Chair asked Dr. Reynolds and Mr. Sandridge to do everything possible to avoid a repetition of the problems in January.

Reacting to an accident a few days earlier, which involved a student pedestrian being struck and injured while crossing Emmet Street, the Chair asked Mr. Sandridge to comment on pedestrian safety measures in place on the Grounds or planned. Mr. Gibson, the Acting Chief of the University Police, also commented.

Mr. Diamonstein, who has been particularly interested in pedestrian safety, suggested that a survey be made of other universities to find out what they are doing in this regard.

The Chair suggested that work on some of these measures be reported in future meetings of the Buildings and Grounds Committee.

Mr. Pippin, the Chair, reported on the meeting of the Committee held on January 20th. He was assisted by Mr. Prior, the Chancellor of the College at Wise. Among other points, Mr. Prior reminded the Board that of the 22 public liberal arts colleges rated by U.S. News & World Report, Wise ranks seventh.

He also expressed appreciation to the whole Board for Members' efforts on behalf of the College at the General Assembly.

Mr. Thompson, Chair of the Committee, reported on the meeting of the Committee held on January 19th. He was assisted by Mr. Harvey, Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer.

In reply to a question, Mr. Harvey said he has been pleased with what he has seen being done at the University in the several months he has been here.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------

After adopting the following motions, the Board went into Executive Session at 11:30 a.m. All Members of the Board were present.

That the Board of Visitors convene in Executive Session to consult with General Counsel regarding his privileged legal report to the Board on pending and anticipated litigation affecting the University, and on applicable law with respect to possible amendments to the Conflict of Interests Act, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and/or approving personnel actions involving the appointment, reappointment, nomination, evaluation, compensation, and resignation of specific University officers and employees as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for a briefing and discussion of emergency preparedness planning, as provided for by Section 2.2-3711 (20) and (30) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Executive Session to consider the appointment of a specific student member to the Board of Visitors, in accordance with Section 2.2-3711 (A)(1) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board recessed at 11:50 a.m., to dine with students at the Observatory Hill Dining Hall; it resumed, once more in Executive Session, at 1:40 p.m.

After adopting the following resolution certifying that its discussions in Executive Session had been conducted in accordance with the exemptions permitted by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, the Board resumed in Open Session at 2:00 p.m, with all Members of the Board present:

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

POLICY DISCUSSIONREPORT ON THE WORK OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON PLANNING
------------------------------------------------------------------------

This portion of the Board meeting was both a report of the meeting of the Special Committee on Planning on February 2nd, and a lengthy discussion based on the points suggested in the Committee's deliberations the day before. An account of this presentation and discussion is combined with the Minutes of the previous day's meeting as a document separate from the Minutes of the meeting of the full Board.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT ON THE CASE STATEMENT
---------------------------------------------

The President gave a brief report on the status of the Campaign Case Statement. He said it continues to evolve, and he mentioned a case review session in Richmond and two that are forthcoming - one in Florida and the other in San Francisco. Work to date, he said, has been focused on the development of major themes and theses to serve as foundations for the case. He then told the Board about points which will be "tested" at the next review sessions.

PRESIDENT'S REPORTGIFTS AND GRANTSDEATH OF CARL SMITH
-----------------------------------------------------

The President then gave his customary report.

He did a brief review of legislation of interest to the University pending in the General Assembly.

The previous Monday in Richmond, there was a press conference at which Senator Allen and Governor Warner endorsed the Commonwealth's investment in research. They were joined by Governor Kaine, Speaker Howell, Senator Chichester and Delegate Callahan.

Turning to the Capital Campaign, the President noted that December was a very good month for fundraising, with a philanthropic cash flow of $67.36million for the month; the cash flow for December last year was $55million. With gifts booked so far, 26.65% of the Campaign goal has been achieved with 25.03% of the time elapsed.

The President reported several large gifts, not booked in December and thus not included in the total for that month. These include a $45million commitment from the Ivy Foundation for MR6, the children's hospital and the clinical center; $5million from the Claude Moore Foundation for the School of Nursing; and another

$5million commitment yet to be announced. These three commitments, when added to the December 31st total, bring the total money raised in the Campaign to nearly $855million.

Since the last Board meeting, fourteen events have been held in fourteen different cities, with a total of 904 guests in attendance.

Philanthropic giving to the University and its related foundations was $128.9million for the fiscal year through December 31st, an increase of $17.9million or 16% above the previous fiscal year. The College, the McIntire School, Athletics, the College at Wise, and the Law School all report substantial increases in giving.

Some significant gifts since the last Board meeting include $6,516,690 in gifts and pledge payments to the Virginia Athletics Foundation, the Jefferson Scholars Foundation, and the College for the Environmental Sciences Department from Paul Tudor Jones, II and Mrs. Sonia Klein Jones.

There was a bequest of $3,912,383.58 from the Estate of Henry N. Obear; $2million of this was designated for a professorship in classics and the remainder to the McIntire School of Commerce Foundation for several endowments. Albert H. Small gave $3,500,000 to the University Library; this consisted of a cash gift of $500,000 and another 30% interest in the copy of the Declaration of Independence.

The Rice Family Foundation pledged $9,600,000 to the Virginia Engineering Foundation for the Information Technology Building; there is an anonymous pledge of $5million to the Jefferson Scholars Foundation; Ms. Sonja L. Hoel has pledged $1,500,000 for scholarships in the Jerome Holland Program; and BB&T Corporation has pledged $1,500,000 to the College for a program to explore the moral foundation of capitalism.

The President recommended acceptance of the Gifts and Grants Report. On motion, the Board voted to accept it.

The President continued his report: fundraising for the John Paul Jones Arena stood at $100,883,776 as of December 31st. The construction cost for the project is $129.8million. The December 31st total doubles that raised by other schools who have built basketball arenas in recent years.

The President commented on the death of Mr. Carl Smith, "an extraordinary friend of the University." Mr. Smith, a former Member of the Board, died in December. Mr. Smith's benefactions to the University were very generous and touched a number of areas of the institution.

FINAL SESSIONRATIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL 2006-2008 BUDGET AMENDMENTS FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIAAPPROVAL OF WTJU'S 2004-2005 ANNUAL REPORTAPPROVAL OF EASEMENTS AT BLANDY FARMAPPROVAL OF STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 2006-2007MOUNTAIN LAKE BIOLOGICAL STATION Proposed 2006 RatesAPPROVAL OF 2006-2007 TUITION AND FEES FOR CERTAIN PROGRAMS APPROVAL TO AMEND FRATERNITY AND SORORITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM TO ALLOW FOR LOANS FOR THE PURPOSE OF ACQUIRING OFF-GROUNDS PROPERTIES AMENDMENT TO THE APPROVAL LIMITS FOR INDIVIDUAL QUASI-ENDOWMENT TRANSACTIONS APPROVAL TO ESTABLISH A NEW DEGREE PROGRAM: B.S. IN SOFTWARE ENGINEERING AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS MEMORIAL RESOLUTION ON CARL W. SMITH
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Facility

Actual2005-2006Per StudentPer Session

AmountofIncrease

% IncreaseBeforeImprovementFee

StudentHousingImprovementFund Fee

TotalPercentIncrease

Proposed2006-2007Per StudentPer Session

Academic Division

DORMITORIES

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Double Room

$3,250

$150

4.62%

$200

10.77%

$3,600

Brown College

Double Room

$3,890

$180

4.63%

$200

9.77%

$4,270

McCormick Road

Double Room

$3,120

$140

4.49%

$200

10.90%

$3,460

Small Double Room

$2,900

$130

4.48%

$200

11.38%

$3,230

Single

$3,260

$150

4.60%

$200

10.74%

$3,610

Lawn

Single

$3,740

$170

4.55%

$200

9.89%

$4,110

Single (no fireplace)

$3,640

$170

4.67%

$200

10.16%

$4,010

Facility

Actual2005-2006Per StudentPer Session

AmountofIncrease

% IncreaseBeforeImprovementFee

StudentHousingImprovementFund Fee

TotalPercentIncrease

Proposed2006-2007Per StudentPer Session

Range

Regular Single

$3,740

$170

4.55%

$200

9.89%

$4,110

Crackerbox

Single Room

$3,740

$170

4.55%

$200

9.89%

$4,110

Mary Munford / Roberta Gwathmey

Double Room

$3,250

$150

4.62%

$200

10.77%

$3,600

Single Room

$3,740

$170

4.55%

$200

9.89%

$4,110

Sprigg (Lewis/Hoxton)

Double Room

$3,600

$170

4.72%

$200

10.28%

$3,970

Small Double Room

$3,410

$160

4.69%

$200

10.56%

$3,770

Single Room

$3,930

$180

4.58%

$200

9.67%

$4,310

Single Room (w/bath)

$4,110

$190

4.62%

$200

9.49%

$4,500

Gooch/Dillard

Double Room

$3,600

$170

4.72%

$200

10.28%

$3,970

Single Room

$3,930

$180

4.58%

$200

9.67%

$4,310

Twelve Month Rate:

Single Room

$5,300

$240

4.53%

$200

8.307%

$5,740

Hereford College

Double Room

$3,600

$170

4.72%

$200

10.28%

$3,970

Single Room

$3,890

$180

4.63%

$200

9.77%

$4,270

French House

Triple Room

$3,430

$160

4.66%

$200

10.50%

$3,790

Double Room

$3,600

$170

4.72%

$200

10.28%

$3,970

Single Room

$4,010

$190

4.74%

$200

9.73%

$4,400

Russia House

Double Room

$3,580

$170

4.75%

$200

10.34%

$3,950

Single Room

$3,940

$190

4.82%

$200

9.90%

$4,330

Spanish House

Double Room

$3,600

$170

4.72%

$200

10.28%

$3,970

Single Room

$4,010

$190

4.74%

$200

9.73%

$4,400

Shea House

Double Room

$3,600

$170

4.72%

$200

10.28%

$3,970

Single Room

$4,010

$190

4.74%

$200

9.73%

$4,400

Apartments - Single Student

Copeley Hill III, IV, Lambeth Field

Two Bedroom

(dbl. occupancy)

$3,630

$170

4.68%

$200

10.19%

$4,000

Three Bedroom

(dbl. occupancy)

$3,530

$160

4.53%

$200

10.20%

$3,890

Facility

Actual2005-2006Per StudentPer Session

AmountofIncrease

% IncreaseBeforeImprovementFee

StudentHousingImprovementFund Fee

TotalPercentIncrease

Proposed2006-2007Per StudentPer Session

Bice House

Two Bedroom

(dbl. occupancy)

$3,630

$170

4.68%

$200

10.19%

$4,000

Three Bedroom

(dbl. occupancy)

$3,530

$160

4.53%

$200

10.20%

$3,890

Single

$3,990

$190

4.76%

$200

9.77%

$4,380

Faulkner (Hench, Mitchell, Younger)

Single

$3,990

$190

4.76%

$200

9.77%

$4,380

Large Single

$4,720

$220

4.66%

$200

8.90%

$5,140

Apartments - Family (per month)

Copeley Hill I & II

One Bedroom (furnished)

$691

$0

0.00%

$0

0.00%

$691

One Bedroom (unfurn.)

$657

$0

0.00%

$0

0.00%

$657

Two Bedroom (furnished)

$755

$35

4.64%

$15

6.62%

$805

Two Bedroom (unfurn.)

$722

$33

4.57%

$15

6.65%

$770

Three Bedroom (furnished)

$814

$37

4.55%

$15

6.39%

$866

Three Bedroom (unfurn.)

$780

$35

4.49%

$15

6.41%

$830

University Gardens

One Bedroom (furnished)

$674

$0

0.00%

$0

0.00%

$674

One Bedroom (unfurn.)

$641

$0

0.00%

$0

0.00%

$641

Two Bedroom (furnished)

$724

$33

4.56%

$15

6.63%

$772

Two Bedroom (unfurn.)

$690

$31

4.49%

$15

6.67%

$736

College at Wise

McCraray

$3,019

$211

6.99%

$0.0

6.99%

$3,230

Asbury, Thompson, Henson Randolph, Townhouses, Theme Housing

$3,488

$244

7.00%

$0.0

7.00%

$3,732

Notes: 1. The 2005-2006 rates for one bedroom apartments are at market. 2. The rates for Copeley Hill I & II and University Gardens include utility charges, and cable TV. 3. A new rate for furnished apartments will go into effect as the units turn over. 4. The rate for a double room used as a single is 135% of the double rate. 5. The rate for a double room used as a triple is 85% of the double rate. Students living in a triple receive a credit of $50 for each month they reside in a triple (maximum of $200/semester).

Actual2005

Proposed2006

%Increase

Dormitories

$100.00

$103.00

3.00%

Laing Singles

$100.00

$103.00

3.00%

Laing Apartments:

Center

$141.00

$145.50

3.19%

North

$141.00

$145.50

3.19%

South

$141.00

$145.50

3.19%

Northwest

$141.00

$145.50

3.19%

West

$141.00

$145.50

3.19%

New Dormitory:

Singles

$115.00

$119.00

3.48%

Apartments (2 rooms)

$161.00

$166.00

3.11%

Second Bedroom (family)

$51.00

$53.00

3.92%

Cabins:

Hentz-Mohr

$185.00

$191.00

3.24%

Clayton

$185.00

$191.00

3.24%

Catesby

$185.00

$191.00

3.24%

Gattinger

$185.00

$191.00

3.24%

Michaux

$185.00

$191.00

3.24%

Burns

$185.00

$191.00

3.24%

Washington

$185.00

$191.00

3.24%

Banister

$185.00

$191.00

3.24%

LeConte

$185.00

$191.00

3.24%

Hariot

$185.00

$191.00

3.24%

Schoew

$185.00

$191.00

3.24%

Maphis

$185.00

$191.00

3.24%

Holbrook

$185.00

$191.00

3.24%

Mitchell

$185.00

$191.00

3.24%

Rafinesque

$185.00

$191.00

3.24%

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2005-06Approved

AmountofIncrease

PercentofIncrease

2006-07Proposed

2005-06Approved

AmountofIncrease

PercentofIncrease

2006-07Proposed

MIT

$33,294

$1,606

4.8%

$34,900

$38,309

$1,591

4.2%

$39,900

Price includes fees of $10,900 for special session mandatory fee, books, materials, Computer leasing, software licenses, group meals, and lodging.

Systems Eng.

$31,500

$1,000

3.2%

$32,500

$36,500

$1,000

2.7%

$37,500

Price includes fees of $12,049 for special session mandatory fee, books, materials, Technology, group meals, and lodging.

Post-Bac, Pre-Med

n/a

n/a

n/a

$18,000

n/a

n/a

n/a

$23,000

Price includes full-time mandatory fees.

The Board adopted the following resolutions:

WHEREAS, the additional 2006-2008 budget amendments have been carefully reviewed; and

WHEREAS, the budget amendments represent additional high priority initiatives and are aligned with the mission of the institution; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors authorized the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to transmit to the General Assembly any request not funded by the Governor as long as there are no material differences from the items already endorsed by the Board of Visitors;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia endorses and supports the additional 2006-2008 budget amendments; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to transmit the final proposed budget amendments to the General Assembly.

RESOLVED that WTJU's 2004-2005 Annual Report be approved, as recommended by the President and the Vice President and Chief Student Affairs Officer.

WHEREAS, two existing permanent easements allowing adjacent property owners to access Route 50 through the Blandy Farm property in Clarke County are considered unsafe;

WHEREAS, two existing permanent easements allowing the same adjacent property owners to access Berry's Ferry Road through the Blandy Farm property range from a twenty foot width to an eighty foot width and may need modification in order to standardize the width of the easement and to provide for all utilities to be installed underground;

WHEREAS, such potential modification is still under review;

RESOLVED that new permanent easements to two adjacent property owners, replacing existing permanent easements, for access to Route 50 across Blandy Farm on property owned by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia is approved;

RESOLVED FURTHER that modifications to existing permanent easements granting two adjacent property owners access to Berry's Ferry Road across Blandy Farm on property owned by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, if required, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easements.

RESOLVED that rental increases for student housing facilities is approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 2006-2007 session:

Mt. Lake Housing Rates / 4 Week Term

RESOLVED that the tuition and fees applicable to the following programs be approved as shown below, effective May 1, 2006:

WHEREAS, the Board has previously approved the Fraternity and Sorority Investment Program; and

WHEREAS, the Program does not specifically cover loans to Fraternities or Sororities for the purpose of acquiring off- Grounds properties;

RESOLVED that the January 25, 2002, resolution authorizing the Fraternity and Sorority Investment Program is hereby amended to allow for loans under the Program for the purpose of acquiring off-Grounds properties.

In approving this amendment, the Board wishes to express its support of the diverse membership policies of the fraternities and sororities at the University of Virginia.

WHEREAS, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer has the authority to approve individual quasi-endowment transactions totaling less than $2 million for investment in the long-term investment pool managed by UVIMCO; and

WHEREAS, there is a need to expand this delegation of authority for two sets of circumstances in connection with the University's central loan program;

RESOLVED, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer may approve individual quasi-endowment transactions, regardless of the dollar amount, in cases in which collateralization is determined to be necessary by the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer as part of the assessment of the business plan for a capital project. Funds may be invested in the long term investment pool managed by UVIMCO or in other investment vehicles as permitted by law;

RESOLVED FURTHER, to the extent that the central loan program has balances, they may be invested in the long-term investment pool managed by UVIMCO or in other investment vehicles as permitted by law.

WHEREAS, the faculty and administration of The University of Virginia's College at Wise have proposed and approved the inclusion of a Software Engineering major in the curriculum; and

WHEREAS, the Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering will attract students from Southwest Virginia and throughout the Commonwealth of Virginia; and

WHEREAS, the Software Engineering major will produce graduates in a high-demand field needed by business in Southwest Virginia; and

WHEREAS, the Software Engineering major will assist Wise County, the City of Norton, and the entire Southwest Virginia region in attracting new businesses and industries;

RESOLVED that, subject to approval by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, the Bachelor of Science Degree in Software Engineering be established at The University of Virginia's College at Wise.

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period August 1, 2005, through December 31, 2005, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit & Compliance Committee.

WHEREAS, Carl W. Smith of Albemarle County, a native of Wise, took a B.A. from the University in 1951, having received an athletic scholarship as an offensive guard on the football team; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Smith founded AMVEST Corporation in 1961 and made it into an extremely successful business; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Smith was appointed to the Board of Visitors in 1980 by Governor Dalton and reappointed for a second term by Governor Robb in 1984; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Smith, throughout his life as an alumnus, was a faithful and generous supporter of the University; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Smith and his wife, Hunter, in 1997 made a gift of $25 million, then the largest single monetary contribution in the University's history, which went toward the expansion of Scott Stadium and the construction of a new football stadium at The University of Virginia's College at Wise; and

WHEREAS, the area encompassing Scott Stadium was named the Carl Smith Center in Mr. Smith's honor; and

WHEREAS, Mr. and Mrs. Smith's benefactions also support a range of schools and institutions at the University including the Children's Medical Center, the marching band, the performing arts center, and the Jefferson Scholars program, among many others; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Smith died on December 8, 2005;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors notes its profound sorrow at the passing of Carl W. Smith, pays tribute to his love for the University and his service on the Board, and expresses its deepest condolences to Mrs. Smith and her family.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Election of Chairholders(b) Correction to the Change of the Title and the Term of the Chairholder Election of Ms. Arlene W. Keeling(c) Change in the Term of the Chairholder Election of Ms. Elizabeth I. Merwin(d) Change in the Term of the Chairholder Election of Ms. Barbara J. Parker(e) Special Salary Action of Chairholders(f) Retirement of Chairholders(g) Change in the Title of the Retirement of Dr. Martha A. Carpenter(h) Resignation of ChairholderPROMOTIONSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTSAPPOINTMENTSRE-APPOINTMENTSELECTION OF MR. JAMES L. HILTON AS VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICERCHANGE IN THE TERM OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. R. EDWARD HOWELL AS VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTERELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITICHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE EMERITUS ACTION FOR DR. MARTHA A. CARPENTERDEATHS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the change in the title and the term of the election of Ms. Arlene W. Keeling as Distinguished Professor of Nursing, effective August 25, 2005, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated September 30, 2005, be corrected to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the term of the chairholder election for Ms. Elizabeth I. Merwin as Madge M. Jones Professor of Nursing, effective August 25, 2005, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated June 9-11, 2005, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the term of the chairholder election for Ms. Barbara J. Parker as Theresa A. Thomas Professor of Primary Care Nursing, effective August 25, 2005, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated June 9-11, 2005, be changed to read as follows:.

RESOLVED that the title of the retirement of Dr. Martha A. Carpenter, J. Francis Dammann Associate Professor of Pediatric Cardiology, effective June 30, 2005, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated September 30, 2005, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the following person is promoted:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirements were announced:

The following appointments were announced:

The following re-appointments were announced:

RESOLVED that Mr. James L. Hilton is elected as Vice President and Chief Information Officer, for five years, effective July 1, 2006.

RESOLVED that the re-election of Mr. R. Edward Howell, as Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the University of Virginia Medical Center, for three years, effective February 25, 2005, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated February 4, 2005, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that Mr. R. Edward Howell is re-elected Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the University of Virginia Medical Center, for four years, effective February 25, 2005.

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that the title of the emeritus action for Dr. Martha A. Carpenter, J. Francis Dammann Associate Professor of Pediatric Cardiology, effective June 30, 2005, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated September 30, 2005, be changed to read as follows:

The following deaths were announced:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISECHANGE IN THE SALARY OF THE ELECTION OF MR. MICHAEL T. MCGILL, JR.SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSCHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE SPECIAL SALARY ACTION FOR MR. J. A. (JIM) KNIGHTRESIGNATIONDEATH
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the salary of the election of Mr. Michael T. McGill, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Communication, The University of Virginia's College at Wise, for two academic years, effective August 25, 2005, at an academic year salary of $43,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated September 30, 2005, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

RESOLVED that the special salary action for Mr. J. A. (Jim) Knight, Professor of Chemistry, The University of Virginia's College at Wise, effective September 1, 2005, at an annual salary of $158,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated September 30, 2005, be changed to read as follows:

The following resignation was announced:

The following death was announced:

APPOINTMENT OF NON-VOTING STUDENT MEMBER TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
-----------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED, Anne Elizabeth Mullen of Albemarle County is elected the Student Member of the Board, to succeed Catherine S. Neale at the conclusion of the April, 2005 Board meeting, and to serve for one year.

PROCEDURE FOR APPROVING PROPOSED LEGISLATION
--------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that any proposals by the administration of the University for legislation to be introduced in the General Assembly for the benefit of the University, be approved by the External Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors or by the full Board.

PROFESSORSHIPS AND NAMINGS ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HARRISON DISTINGUISHED TEACHING PROFESSORSHIPS ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EDWIN P. LEHMAN PROFESSORSHIP IN SURGERY ESTABLISHMENT OF THE STANTON P. NOLAN PROFESSORSHIP IN THORACIC AND CARDIOVASCULAR SURGERY ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JAY BERKOWITZ PROFESSORSHIP IN JEWISH HISTORY NAMING OF THE CLAUDE MOORE MEDICAL EDUCATION BUILDING
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board recessed at 3:50 p.m., and resumed its meeting, also in Open Session, in the Dome Room of the Rotunda at 4:00 p.m., to consider the establishment of four professorships and the naming of a building.

WHEREAS, the late David A. Harrison, III, of Prince George County, an alumnus of the College and of the School of Law, was a generous benefactor of the University; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Harrison left $19,300,000 to establish professorships in the School of Medicine, the largest gift ever received by the Medical School for professorships; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors in 2003 established the Harrison Distinguished Professorship in Medicine; and

WHEREAS, the School of Medicine proposes to use the remainder of the Harrison gift to create a single, flexible, endowment to establish a number of chairs with variable levels of funding; and

WHEREAS, each of these chairs will be brought to the Board of Visitors for approval;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Harrison Distinguished Teaching Professorships, to be held in the School of Medicine; each holder of these chairs shall have the title of "Harrison Distinguished Teaching Professor of (name of department)"; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Board once again takes note of the extraordinary generosity and vision of the late David A. Harrison, III.

WHEREAS, Dr. Edwin P. Lehman, an alumnus of Williams College and the Harvard Medical School, joined the faculty of the School of Medicine in 1928 as Chairman of the Departments of Surgery and Gynecology, a position he held until 1953; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Lehman is remembered as a superb teacher and devoted physician, as well as a figure of national importance in the study of cancer; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Lehman died in 1954; and

WHEREAS, the late Dr. Charles V. Amole, an alumnus of the School of Medicine who trained under Dr. Lehman, established annuities during his lifetime to provide funds for a Lehman professorship; and

WHEREAS, the late Dr. William R. Hill, also a student and colleague of Dr. Lehman, provided funds for a Lehman chair as well;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Edwin P. Lehman Professorship in Surgery, to be held in the Department of Surgery in the School of Medicine, honors the memory of Dr. Lehman, and takes note of the generosity of Dr. Amole and Dr. Hill.

WHEREAS, Dr. Stanton P. Nolan, an alumnus of the School of Medicine, became the Director of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery in the Medical School in 1968 and Claude A. Jessup Professor of Surgery in 1981; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Nolan, as Director, was known for his innovations, among them the establishment of the Heart Center and a thoracic surgery curriculum which is used in every thoracic training program in the United States; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Nolan is known for his concern for his patients and students alike, and as a champion of strong residency training; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Nolan retired from the faculty in 1998; and

WHEREAS, friends and colleagues of Dr. Nolan, as well as the Department of Surgery, have contributed generously to a professorship in Dr. Nolan's honor;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Stanton P. Nolan Professorship in Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, to be held in the Division of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery in the School of Medicine. In doing so, the Board thanks the generous donors who have made this possible, and pays tribute to the contributions of Dr. Nolan to his profession, to the School of Medicine, and to the University.

WHEREAS, Nancy Berkeley Bynum, an alumna of the Law School, and her husband, Frank K. Bynum, Jr., an alumnus of the College, have made a generous gift to the University for the establishment of a chair in Jewish History; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Bynum's grandfather, Jay Berkowitz, born in New York in 1901 to emigrants from the Austro-Hungarian Empire, took great pride in being an American and in the history and traditions of this country, while at the same time was aware of Jewish traditions and his Jewish heritage; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Berkowitz died in 1993, the year that his granddaughter took her law degree from the University;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Jay Berkowitz Professorship in Jewish History, to be held in the Department of History, and thanks Nancy Berkeley Bynum and Frank K. Bynum, Jr. for their generosity which has made this chair possible.

WHEREAS, Dr. Claude Moore took an M.D. from the University in 1916; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Moore practiced medicine for many years in Washington and lived in Northern Virginia; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Moore died in 1991, having directed in his will the establishment of the Claude Moore Charitable Foundation; and

WHEREAS, the Claude Moore Charitable Foundation has made a generous challenge gift of $12.5million to the School of Medicine for a new medical education building;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors names the building the Claude Moore Medical Education Building, in memory of Dr. Moore, and expresses its appreciation to the Claude Moore Charitable Foundation for its generosity and support.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 4:20 p.m.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: February 3, 2006 CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session - as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia - only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration in closed session.

RESOLUTIONS NOT REQUIRING ACTION BY THE FULL BOARD EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE - NOVEMBER 7, 2005 AND February 2, 2006 (ATTACHMENT A) BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE - NOVEMBER 7, 2005 (ATTACHMENT B) BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE - DECEMBER 15, 2005 (ATTACHMENT B) BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE - JANUARY 20, 2006 (ATTACHMENT B) MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD - DECEMBER 15, 2005 (ATTACHMENT C) SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON DIVERSITY - JANUARY 19, 2006 (ATTACHMENT D)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following actions taken by several Board Committees do not require action by the full Board, but are reported here as a matter of record.

Approval of Management Agreement, Policies, and Performance Measures Leases for Pavilion IV, Pavilion IX, Pavilion X and Montebello

Approval of Architect Selection for Observatory Hill Residence Hall (Alderman Road Residence Area Replacement Housing - Phase I) Approval of Architect Selection for Hereford First Year Residence Hall (Alderman Road Residence Area Replacement Housing - Phase 1) Approval of Architect Selection for Medical Education School Building Approval of Engineer Selection for South Chiller Plant Addition Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the South Chiller Plant Addition

Approval of Architect Selection for the Hospital Bed Expansion Project Approval of Deed Restriction for Recoupment Room and the Land Directly Below Such Room at the University's Environmental Health and Safety Special Materials Handling Facility

Approval of Schematic Design for the Arts Grounds Parking Garage Approval of the 2005-2015 Campus Plan for The University of Virginia's College at Wise Approval of the Revised Schematic Design for the Renovation of Crockett Hall at The University of Virginia's College at Wise Approval of Schematic Design for the New Main Entrance at The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions

Committee's Goal on Supplier Diversity

ATTACHMENT A RESOLUTIONS FROM THE MEETINGS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE NOVEMBER 7, 2005 FEBRUARY 2, 2006 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE - NOVEMBER 7, 2005APPROVAL OF MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT, POLICIES, AND PERFORMANCE MEASURES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE - FEBRUARY 2, 2006
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act includes a provision entitled Subchapter 3, Alternative Authority for Covered Institutions (Va. Code 23-38.91 et. seq.), which sets forth the requirements for a public university or college of this Commonwealth to gain additional authority with concomitant responsibility subject to certain accountability, audit and reporting measures specified by the General Assembly; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has by resolution committed the University to the state goals set forth in Virginia Code 23-38.88B, and by resolution determined that the University is qualified to be, and should be, governed by the authorizations and requirements set forth in said Subchapter 3 and as otherwise prescribed by law; and, furthermore, attested to the ability of the University to successfully manage its administrative and financial operations in accordance with the requirements of Subchapter 3, accordingly authorizing its President and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to enter into negotiations to finalize the Management Agreement required by the said Act; and

WHEREAS, the Management Agreement has been approved by the University's President and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and approvals by the Cabinet Secretary or Secretaries designated by the Governor of Virginia are anticipated;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors, by its Executive Committee as authorized and empowered by state law (Va. Code 23-75), adopts the said approved Management Agreement including its appended policies in the operational areas of capital projects, leases, information technology, procurement, human resources, and finance and accounting, as well as the Performance Measures, and accordingly authorizes the President and/or Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to execute the foregoing on behalf of the University and its Board of Visitors. In the event of subsequent changes or amendments as may be desired by the Governor or the General Assembly, and if the Executive Committee is unable because of exigent and other circumstances to properly convene in a timely manner, the President and/or Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, with the concurrence of the Rector, is empowered to approve any subsequent changes or amendments which he determines to be in the best interests of the University and that are desired or required by the Governor or the General Assembly between the date of this Resolution and the effective date of the aforesaid Management Agreement, Polices and Performance Measures; provided, the President shall notify the Board of Visitors as soon as practicable of the changes or amendments.

The Committee took the following actions on leases on Pavilion IV, and Pavilion X, East Lawn; on Pavilion IX, West Lawn; and on Montebello:

Pavilion IV - extended the lease, due to expire in the summer of 2006, to the summer of 2007; Dr. and Mrs. Robert M. Carey are the occupants of the Pavilion.

Pavilion IX - renewed the lease, due to expire in August, 2006, for three years, to expire in August 2009. Ms. Karen van Lengen and Mr. James Welty are the occupants of the Pavilion.

Pavilion X - renewed the lease, due to expire in the summer of 2006, for five years, to expire in the summer of 2011. Mr. and Mrs. Carl P. Zeithaml are the occupants of the Pavilion.

Montebello - extended the lease, due to expire on September 30, 2006, for two months, to expire on November 30, 2006. Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Miksad are the occupants of the house.

ATTACHMENT B RESOLUTIONS FROM THE MEETING OF THE BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE NOVEMBER 7, 2005 DECEMBER 15, 2005 JANUARY 20, 2006 BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE - NOVEMBER 7, 2005 APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR OBSERVATORY HILL RESIDENCE HALL (ALDERMAN ROAD RESIDENCE AREA REPLACEMENT HOUSING - PHASE 1) APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR HEREFORD FIRST YEAR RESIDENCE HALL (ALDERMAN ROAD RESIDENCE AREA REPLACEMENT HOUSING - PHASE 1) APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR MEDICAL EDUCATION SCHOOL BUILDING APPROVAL OF ENGINEER SELECTION FOR SOUTH CHILLER PLANT ADDITION APPROVAL OF CONCEPT, SITE, AND DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE SOUTH CHILLER PLANT ADDITION BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE - DECEMBER 15, 2005 APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE HOSPITAL BED EXPANSION PROJECT APPROVAL OF DEED RESTRICTION FOR RECOUPMENT ROOM AND THE LAND DIRECTLY BELOW SUCH ROOM AT THE UNIVERSITY'S ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY SPECIAL MATERIALS HANDLING FACILITY BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE - JANUARY 20, 2006 APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE ARTS GROUNDS PARKING GARAGE APPROVAL OF THE 2005-2015 CAMPUS PLAN FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE APPROVAL OF THE REVISED SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE RENOVATION OF CROCKETT HALL AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE NEW MAIN ENTRANCE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Hanbury Evans Wright Vlattas + Company of Norfolk, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Observatory Hill Residence Hall project (Alderman Road Residence Area Replacement Housing - Phase 1).

RESOLVED that Wallace Roberts & Todd, LLC of Philadelphia, in association with Solomon E.T.C. of San Francisco, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Hereford First Year Residence Hall project (Alderman Road Residence Area Replacement Housing - Phase 1).

RESOLVED that CO Architects, of Los Angeles, California, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Medical Education Building.

RESOLVED that Affiliated Engineers East, P.C., of Chapel Hill, North Carolina, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the South Chiller Plant Addition.

RESOLVED that the concept, site, and design guidelines, dated November 7, 2005, and prepared by the Architect for the University, for the South Chiller Plant Addition are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

RESOLVED that the SmithGroup MidAtlantic, of Washington, D.C., in association with AHSC Architects PC, of Tarrytown, New York, and Atkinson Koven Feinberg Engineers, LLP of Arlington, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Hospital Bed Expansion project.

RESOLVED that a deed restriction limiting the Recoupment Room (Room 120) of Environmental Health and Safety's Special Materials Handling Facility, on Observatory Hill, as well as the land below it, to industrial usage is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said deed restriction.

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated January 20, 2006, and prepared by Kimley Horn and Associates, Inc., of Chesapeake, for the Arts Grounds Garage is approved for further development as a design/build project and subsequent construction.

WHEREAS, the Campus Plan for The University of Virginia's College at Wise was last updated in 1997; and

WHEREAS, the Plan has been reviewed and brought up to date to meet the College's present and future needs, through 2015;

RESOLVED that the 2005-2015 Campus Plan for The University of Virginia's College at Wise, dated January 20, 2006, and prepared by The Office of the Architect for the University, is approved.

RESOLVED that the revised schematic design, dated January 20, 2006, and prepared by Mitchell/Matthews, Architects & Planners of Charlottesville, for the renovation of Crockett Hall at The University of Virginia's College at Wise, is approved for further development and construction.

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated January 20, 2006, and prepared by Hill Studio, PC of Roanoke, for the New Main Entrance project at The University of Virginia's College at Wise, is approved for further development and construction.

ATTACHMENT C RESOLUTIONS FROM THE MEETING OF THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD DECEMBER 15, 2005 MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD - DECEMBER 15, 2005 CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFREAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFSTATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFFRESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFFPRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSRENEWAL OF PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSSTATUS CHANGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSRESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status changes in clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change in privileges to the following Allied Health Professional is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

ATTACHMENT D RESOLUTION FROM THE MEETING OF THE DIVERSITY COMMITTEE JANUARY 19, 2006 DIVERSITY COMMITTEE - JANUARY 19, 2006 COMMITTEE'S GOAL ON SUPPLIER DIVERSITY (ATTACHMENT D)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Chair confer with Mr. William Cooper and Vice President Sheehy to update the Committee's goal on supplier diversity. The revised goal then is to be reported to the full Board.