 TEI to HTML

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS APRIL 13, 2007
-----------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Approval of the Minutes of the February 9, 2007 Meeting of the Board of Visitors

7276

Resolution for Additions to the Agenda

7277

Change in the Title of the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Medal in Civic Leadership

7277

Board Meeting Dates for 2009

7278

Resolution Accepting the Gifts and Grants Report

7281

Approval of the Summary of Audit Findings

7284

Approval of a Permanent Easement on Crispell Drive (City of Charlottesville)

7284

Approval of Frederic W. Scott Memorial and Its Schematic Design

7284

Approval of Increase in Faculty and Staff Housing Rates For 2007-2008

7285

Approval of Use of and Intent to Issue Tax Exempt Debt - Rouss Hall

7286

Approval of Amendment to the 2008-2014 Six Year Capital Outlay Plan

7288

Approval of Project Budget Increase in Excess of 10 Percent

7288

Approval of Additional Amendments to the 2008-2014 Six Year Capital Outlay Plan

7288

Approval of Contract Rates for Dining Services for 2007- 2008 for the Academic Division and The University of Virginia's College at Wise

7289

Approval of Financial Plans for Capital Projects Added To the Six Year Capital Plan (2008-2014)

7290

PAGE

Approval of Project Budget Increase in Excess of Ten Percent - Claude C. Moore Medical Education Building

7291

Approval of Revised Enrollment Projections - Through 2013-2014

7291

Approval of Increase in Tuition, Required Fees, and Other Charges for the Academic Division

7292

Approval of Allocation of Required Fees for 2007-2008 Regular Session of the Academic Division

7296

Approval of Increase in Tuition, Required Fees and Other Charges for The University of Virginia's College At Wise

7297

Change in Name of Chair - Justice Thurgood Marshall Distinguished Professorship in Law

7298

Resolution of Commendation for Georgia Willis Fauber

7298

Resolution Commending Anne Elizabeth Mullen

7299

Memorial Resolution on Hovey Slayton Dabney

7300

Memorial Resolution on Kenneth P. Asbury

7301

Commending the General Assembly's Resolution on Slavery

7302

Report on Namings: The William A. Elwood Library Endowment and Scholar's Study, The Andrew P. Somlyo Conference Room, and The Mizell Press Room

7303

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

7304

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Election of Chairholders

7306

Change of Title of Chairholders

7307

Special Salary Action of Chairholders

7307

Retirement of Chairholders

7308

Resignation of Chairolders

7308

Election of Chairholders Emeriti

7308

Promotion

7309

Special Salary Actions

7309

Resignations

7312

PAGE

Retirements

7313

Change in the Title of the Retirement of Claudette E. Dalton

7314

Appointment

7314

Re-Appointments

7315

Election of Professor Emeriti

7315

Election of Associate Professor Emerita

7316

Deaths

7316

The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Elections

7318

Special Salary Action

7318

Change in the Title of the Special Salary Action for Mr. Gary W. Juhan

7318

Retirement

7319

Election of Associate Professor Emeritus

7319

Death

7319

Resolutions Adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee, April 13, 2007

Approval of Architect Selection for the Arts Gateway to the University

7321

Approval of Architect Selection for the Smiddy Hall Renovation and the Information Technology Building Construction at The University of Virginia's College at Wise

7321

SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORSApril 13, 2007
--------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 9:05 a.m., Friday, April 13, 2007, in the Board Room of the Rotunda; Thomas F. Farrell, II, Rector, presided. W. Heywood Fralin, Vice Rector, Daniel R. Abramson, A. Macdonald Caputo, Alan A. Diamonstein, Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., Ms. Glynn D. Key, Austin Ligon, Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr., Lewis F. Payne, Don R. Pippin, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Warren M. Thompson, E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., John O. Wynne, and Ms. Anne Elizabeth Mullen were present.

Carey J. Mignerey, the Student Member-elect, was present as an observer.

Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D., William B. Harvey, James L. Hilton, R. Edward Howell, Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, Ms. Colette Sheehy, David J. Prior, Craig K. Littlepage, David A. Leitao, a nd Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

Kenneth A. Schwartz, Chair of the Faculty Senate, also was present.

The Rector opened the meeting and asked Ms. Mullen to lead the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.

APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE FEBRUARY 9, 2007 MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On motion, the Minutes of the Board meeting of February 9, 2007, were approved.

INTRODUCTION OF NEW MEMBERS
---------------------------

The Rector introduced the new Members of the Board: Austin Ligon of Manakin-Sabot in Goochland County, and the Student Member-elect, Carey J. Mignerey, a first-year student in the School of Law.

RESOLUTION FOR ADDITIONS TO THE AGENDA
--------------------------------------

Reminding the Board that the Manual specifies that the Board must approve the addition of addenda to the published Agenda of the meeting, the Rector called for a resolution to permit the consideration of addenda.

On motion, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the addition of items to the Agenda for consideration by the Board.

CHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE THOMAS JEFFERSON FOUNDATION MEDAL IN CIVIC LEADERSHIP
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At the Board Retreat in July, 2006, the Board approved a third medal to be awarded on Founder's Day by the University and by the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation; by resolution, the new medal was to be called the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Medal in Civic Leadership. The Rector explained that subsequently, the University and the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation have decided to change the name to the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Medal in Citizen Leadership; this change must be approved by resolution of the Board.

The Rector proposed a resolution, which was approved:

RESOLVED, the name of the medal approved by the Board of Visitors on July 29, 2006, is changed from the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Medal in Civic Leadership to the Thomas Jefferson Medal in Citizen Leadership.

BOARD MEETING DATES FOR 2009
----------------------------

They are as follows:

Thursday, Friday, Saturday February 5, 6 , 7

Thursday, Friday, Saturday April 2, 3, 4

Thursday, Friday, Saturday June 11, 12, 13

Friday and Saturday July 31 and August 1 (Board Retreat)

Thursday, Friday, Saturday October 1, 2, 3

The Rector proposed the Board meeting dates for 2009; on motion, they were approved.

The Rector noted there will be one more set of Board Committee meetings before the July Retreat this year. He asked that the Committee Chairs review the goals and work plans of their respective Committees and report at the June Board meeting.

RECOGNITION OF MR. LEITAO, THE MEN'S BASKETBALL COACH
-----------------------------------------------------

At the request of the Rector, Ms. Dorsey introduced Mr. Littlepage, Director of Athletics, who in turn introduced Mr. David Leitao, the Head Coach of the Men's Basketball Team. Ms. Dorsey reminded the Board that Mr. Leitao has been voted the ACC Men's Basketball Coach of the Year.

Mr. Leitao addressed the Board briefly.

Mr. Littlepage thanked the Board for its support.

REMARKS BY THE RECTOR
---------------------

The Rector said he will appoint the Board Committees in time for the June meeting - the June meeting being the designated Annual Meeting of the Board at which the standing committees of the Board are reappointed. He noted that he will be making these appointments in collaboration with Mr. Fralin, the Vice Rector, who will become Rector on July 1st, and he asked Members to make their wishes known to Mr. Fralin.

The Rector reminded Members of the Board's customary participation in the summer orientation of incoming students, and he encouraged Members to sign up for speaking d ates as proposed by the Secretary.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT PRESIDENT'S REPORT: COMMISSION ON THE FUTURE OF THE UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT'S REPORT: FACULTY HIRES PRESIDENT'S REPORT: SACS ACCREDITATION GIFTS AND GRANTS REPORT RESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE GIFTS AND GRANTS REPORT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector asked the President to give his usual report.

The President discussed some current planning efforts underway at the University. A Commission on the Future of the University has been formed under the co-chairmanship of Mr. Sandridge and Dr. Garson. The Commission has been charged with proposing directions for the University for the next ten years. He said the work of the Commission brings together several planning efforts already underway and that it is particularly timely, given the imminent departure of the Provost, the needs of the Campaign, and planning for the succession of several key University officials.

The Commission has been organized with four committees: Schools and the Medical Center; Programmatic Initiatives; Faculty and Student Life; and Funding and Other Resources. The Committees are to deliver draft plans in their respective areas by May 15th. The new Provost will review these plans over the summer and return them to the committees by the start of the fall semester.

Using the plans drafted by the committees, the Commission will write a final report and submit it to the President by the end of the fall semester. The plan will go to the Board's Special Committee on Planning in February, 2008, and the Committee will forward it to the full Board.

The President announced an important faculty hire as part of the Board's efforts to enhance science and technology research at the University: Joseph Takahashi, currently professor of neurobiology and physiology at Northwestern University. Mr. Takahashi, who is a member of the National Academy of Sciences, is one of the world's leading biological-clock researchers. He will hold an endowed chair in the Department of Biology and will be the director of a new Center for Circadian and Systems Biology.

Mr. Takahashi's appointment becomes effective in September, 2008. He will bring with him a multi-million dollar laboratory, which is being funded by the National Institutes of Health and other organizations.

The President pointed out that Mr. Takahashi is the sixth National Academies-level researcher hired by the University in less than two years as part of the Board's Distinguished Senior Scientist Recruitment Program.

The President reminded the Board that the University is undergoing re-accreditation by SACS - the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools - and he reported on the process. Two required documents have been submitted to SACS by the University: the Compliance Certification and the Quality Enhancement Plan. An external committee visited the Grounds in March to review the Quality Enhancement Plan and the University's compliance work. The committee is preparing its final report which, the President said, is expected to be laudatory overall. SACS will vote in December on the re-accreditation of the University.

The Quality Enhancement Plan the University submitted to SACS focuses on enhancing student-faculty engagement.

The President reported that philanthropic giving to the University and its related foundations for the fiscal year stood at $218.7million through February 28th; this represents an increase of $58.1million, or 36.2%, over the amount received during the same period last year.

The Medical School, the Medical Center, the Curry School, the McIntire School and the School of Architecture all reported increases in giving.

Among the significant gifts received since the last meeting of the Board are $15million in pledge payments from Philip Morris USA, Inc., to the Medical School and the McIntire School; $2,983,272.43 in deferred giving from the Estate of H. Brice Graves - part to go to the Class of 1938 Scholarship Fund at the Law School Foundation and part to the Department of Economics in the College; $1,002,328 from Mr. Roby Robinson, Jr. to the Jefferson Scholars Foundation; and a $1million pledge payment from the Smithfield-Luter Foundation for the Smithfield-Luter Palmer Weber Fund in the School of Medicine.

Among the significant new pledges recorded since the last Board meeting are $25million from Philip Morris USA, Inc., of which $20million is designated to the Medical School and the remainder to the McIntire School; $1,300,000 to the Medical School from the Harrison Family Foundation - the pledge will provide support for the Memory Disorders Program; and $1million from the Harry Bramhall Gilbert Charitable Trust for the establishment of the Harry Bramhall Gilbert Merit Scholarship.

On motion, the Board approved the following resolution:

RESOLVED, the report of private gifts for the period January 1, 2007 - February 28, 2007, is accepted.

The Preliminary Meeting of the Board ended at 9:50.

POLICY DISCUSSION
-----------------

All Members were present for this segment of the Board meeting, which began at 9:50 a.m., and ended at 11:15 a.m.

Ms. Sheehy, Vice President for Management and Budget, led the discussion, which was centered on restructuring-related performance measures. Restructuring refers to the 2005 Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act, adopted by the General Assembly, and to the 2006 Management Agreement. The Act required the Board of Visitors to meet a set of eleven statewide goals; the Board on June 10, 2005, approved the University's commitment to meet these goals. The General Assembly later added a twelfth goal that does not become effective until 2007-2008.

The State Council of Higher Education has developed measures of performance, known as the Institutional Performance Standards; using these standards, SCHEV will assess institutional performance on an annual basis. The University worked with the State Council in developing the Standards and established benchmarks and targets for each measure. SCHEV staff will recommend certification of institutions to the Council at the Council meeting on May 8th.

Ms. Sheehy outlined the requirements and the Standards and provided the necessary data on the University's performance.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------

On motion, the Board went into Executive Session at 11:15 a.m., after adopting the following motions:

That the Board of Visitors convene in Closed Session to consult with General Counsel on Honor Committee procedures and on his privileged legal report to us concerning pending and anticipated litigation affecting the University, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(2) and (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and/or approving personnel actions involving the appointment, reappointment, nomination, evaluation, performance, compensation, and resignation of specific University officers and employees as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Closed Session to discuss and consult with legal counsel on UVIMCO investing and leveraging the University's endowment through an offshore entity and borrowing of funds, where competition or bargaining is involved and where, if made public initially, the financial interest of the University would be adversely affected, as permitted by Section 2.2-3711 (6), (7), (8) and (21) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board recessed at 12:30 p.m., to attend the Founder's Day lunch.

The Board resumed its meeting, in Executive Session, at 2:35 p.m.

At 2:40 p.m., the Board resumed in Open Session after adopting the following resolution certifying that its discussions in Executive Session had been conducted in accordance with the exemptions permitted by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act:

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

COMMITTEE BUSINESS
------------------

This portion of the Board meeting began at 2:45 p.m; the various Committee Chairs drew Members' attention to the Minutes of the meetings of their Committees held on March 13th and, in the case of the Finance Committee, on April 12th. Mr. Caputo, the Chair of the External Affairs Committee, pointed out that the Campaign figures given to his Committee in March can now be revised with the March figures, just now available. Some $17million in gifts were received in March and the total amount raised in the Campaign by the end of March stood at $1.19billion

At 2:50 p.m., the Board recessed for a short meeting of the Buildings and Grounds Committee (the Minutes of that meeting appear, separately, as Minutes of the Buildings and Grounds Committee meeting of April 13, 2007).

The Board resumed meeting as the full Board at 2:55 p.m., and heard a presentation by Dr. Vaughan on behalf of the Medical Center Operating Board. His report covered the Medical Center in general, touching on budget, scope and outreach of the Medical Center, the role of the Health Services Foundation, faculty and student issues in the Medical School, research, rankings and new buildings.

This portion of the meeting ended at 3:30 p.m.

FINAL SESSION
-------------

The Final Session of the Board meeting began at 3:30 p.m. All Members save Dr. Vaughan were present.

The Board adopted the following resolutions:

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS(approved by the Audit and Compliance Committee on March 13, 2007)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period August 1, 2006, through January 31, 2007, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit and Compliance Committee.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT ON CRISPELL DRIVE (CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE)(approved by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on March 13, 2007)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED, the Board approves the granting of a permanent easement to the City of Charlottesville for public access to the Crispell Drive extension, on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

APPROVAL OF FREDERIC W. SCOTT MEMORIAL AND ITS SCHEMATIC DESIGN (approved by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on April 13, 2007)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Mr. Frederic W. Scott of Richmond (1862-1939) was Rector of the University from 1930 to 1939; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Scott's benefactions to the University included the original Scott Stadium, named for his parents; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Scott's grandson, Frederic W. Scott, Jr., of North Garden, wishes to present a memorial to his grandfather;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves the proposed memorial to Frederic W. Scott, to be located on McCormick Road adjacent to the first year dormitories, and thanks Frederic W. Scott, Jr., for his generosity;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the schematic design, dated March 13, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University for the construction of a memorial to Frederic W. Scott, on McCormick Road, is approved for further development and construction.

(Ms. Dorsey voted against the resolution.)

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR 2007-2008 (approved by the Finance Committee on April 12, 2007)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ACADEMIC DIVISION

Properties

Utilities Furnished

Rents 2006-07 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Prop. Rents 2007-08 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occuppant

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom Apt. (7)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T

$635

$32

5.04%

$667

2 Bedroom Apt. (16)(UF)

WS,E,G,C,T

$772

$40

5.18%

$812

Houses (3BR) (16)(UF)

WS,C,T

$1,113

$33

2.96%

$1,146

E, G

Townhouses (3BR)(5)(UF)

WS,C,T

$1,080

$0

$1,080

E, G

Farmhouse Apt. 1 (1BR)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T,AC

$709

$25

3.53%

$734

Farmhouse Apt. 2 (3BR)(UF)

WS,E,G,C,T

$721

$38

5.27%

$759

Farmhouse Apt. 3 (1 BR)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T,AC

$709

$25

3.53%

$734

Farmhouse Apt. 4 (2 BR)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T,AC

$792

$40

5.05%

$832

Sundry

Vyssotsky Cottage (3BR)(UF)

WS,T, AC

$900

$45

5.00%

$945

E,G

McGuffey Cottage (Eff)(UF)

WS,E,V,T,AC,D

$548

$2

0.36%

$550

Upper Mews (1BR)(F)

WS,E,HP,C,T,AC,D

$743

$32

4.31%

$775

Lower Mews (1BR)(F)

WS,E,HP,C,T,AC,D

$663

$34

5.13%

$697

Monroe Hill Range (1BR)(UF)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V,D,C

$842

$43

5.11%

$885

Brown College Apts. (2) (2BR)(UF)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V,D,C,D

$723

$48

6.64%

$771

Hereford Coll. Apts.(2) (2BR) (UF)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V,D,C

$836

$54

6.46%

$890

Hereford Coll.Princ.Res. (3BR)(UF)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V,D,C

$1,049

$105

10.01%

$1,154

102 Cresap Fac. Apt. (1BR)(F)

WS,E,G,T,HVAC,V,D,C

$794

$31

3.90%

$825

Hedge House (2BR)(F)

WS,C,T,AC

$832

$28

3.37%

$860

E,G

Orchard House (5RMS)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T,AC

$398

$27

6.78%

$425

118 Oakhurst, Upper (2BR) (UF)

WS,G,C, AC

$733

$37

5.05%

$770

E,T

118 Oakhurst, Lower (2BR) (UF)

WS,G,C,AC

$733

$37

5.05%

$770

E,T

409 Valley Road, (2BR)(F)

WS,E,G,C,AC

$1,043

T

411 Valley Road, (2BR)(F)

WS,E,G,C,AC

$1,043

T

503 Valley Road, (1BR)(UF)

C

$587

WS,E,G,T

424 MLLH, (1BR)(UF)

WS,E,G,C,HVAC,V,D

$768

$51

6.64%

$819

423 MLLH, (2BR)(UF)

WS,E,G,C,HVAC,V,D

$888

$57

6.42%

$945

004 Lewis, (1BR)(UF)

WS,E,G,C,HVAC,V,D

$768

$51

6.64%

$819

Properties

Utilities Furnished

Rents 2006-07 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Prop. Rents 2007-08 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occuppant

Birdwood Properties

Cottage (1BR)(UF)

WS,C,T

$591

$49

8.29%

$640

E

Garage Apt.(2BR)(UF)

WS,C,T

$863

$37

4.29%

$900

E,G

Cash House (3BR)(UF)

WS,C,T,AC

$1,106

$0

$1,106

E,G

Middleton House (4BR)(UF)

WS,C,T,AC

$1,293

$65

5.03%

$1,358

E,G

E & G Properties

Montebello (3BR/Garage)

WS,E,G,AC

$815

$39

4.79%

$854

C,T

Big Morea (4BR)

WS,E,G,AC,T

$1,130

$48

4.25%

$1,178

C

Little Morea (2BR)

WS,E,G,AC,T

$865

$40

4.62%

$905

C

Sunnyside (4BR)

WS,E,O,AC

$1,752

$67

3.82%

$1,819

C

Monroe Hill House (4BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V,D

$1,047

$46

4.39%

$1,093

C

Pavilion I (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$956

$43

4.50%

$999

C

Pavilion II (5BR)

WS,E,HP,T,V

$714

$36

5.04%

$750

C

Pavilion III (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$956

$43

4.50%

$999

C

Pavilion IV (5BR)

WS,E,HP,T,V

$714

$36

5.04%

$750

C

Pavilion V (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$956

$43

4.50%

$999

C

Pavilion VI (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$956

$43

4.50%

$999

C

Pavilion VIII Upper (3BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$626

$33

5.27%

$659

C

Pavilion VIII Lower (1BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$326

$16

4.91%

$342

C

Pavilion IX (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$956

$43

4.50%

$999

C

Pavilion X (5BR)

WS,E,HP,T,V

$714

$36

5.04%

$750

C

Blandy Farm

Curator's House

WS

$0

$0

0.00%

$0

E,O

Green Farm House

WS

$65

$0

0.00%

$65

E,O

Notes:

Italicized 2006-07 rents indicate that a $20 credit was granted for non-availability of high speed data service. In total sixteen properties (the 2-bedroom Piedmont apartments) were brought to market this budget year. The (F) designates properties that are furnished. The (UF) designates properties that are unfurnished. Utility abbreviations are as follows: WS (water, sewer), E (electric), G (gas), O (oil), HP (heating plant), HVAC (heating, ventilating, and air conditioning), AC (window air conditioning), C (cable TV), V (voice), T (trash), and D (data).

RESOLVED that the faculty and staff housing rates are approved as indicated, effective July 1, 2007. The Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to increase the rates to market level when a property is vacated.

APPROVAL OF USE OF AND INTENT TO ISSUE TAX EXEMPT DEBT - ROUSS HALL(approved by the Finance Committee on April 12, 2007)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University seeks to replace gifts with tax-exempt debt as a funding source in the renovation and expansion of Rouss Hall; and

WHEREAS, the United States Department of the Treasury has promulgated final regulations in Section l.l50-2 of the Treasury Regulations governing when the allocation of bond proceeds to reimburse expenditures previously made by a borrower shall be treated as an expenditure of the bond proceeds; and

WHEREAS, the Regulations require a declaration of official intent by a borrower to provide evidence that the borrower intended to reimburse such expenditures with proceeds of its debt; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia desires to make such a declaration of official intent as required by the Regulations; and

WHEREAS, the University may be required to provide short-term financing to the project prior to issuing long-term debt in order to implement an efficient and timely construction schedule; and

WHEREAS, the University has funding mechanisms to accommodate short-term financing needs, defined as a period of less than sixty months; and

WHEREAS, the authority for the University to enter into financing arrangements exceeding sixty months in maturity for this project is not included in this resolution; and

WHEREAS, if the University arranges short-term financing for the project, and if the project is not ultimately completed, or if the project utilizes funding sources other than debt, then the school or unit remains responsible for refunding the short-term obligation;

RESOLVED, that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia approves the replacement of gift funding with University debt in the Rouss Hall Renovation and Expansion Project;

RESOLVED FURTHER that, pursuant to the terms of the Treasury Regulations, the University of Virginia declares its intent to reimburse expenditures in accordance with the following:

RESOLVED FURTHER, funds may be borrowed for the project on a short-term basis, but only if the following conditions are met:

APPROVAL OF AMENDMENT TO THE 2008-14 SIX YEAR CAPITAL OUTLAY PLAN (approved by the Buildings and Ground Committee on March 13, 2007)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that certain improvements to the baseball and softball facilities are approved as an amendment to the 2008-14 Six-Year Capital Outlay Plan for the Academic Division in the 2008-10 biennium.

APPROVAL OF PROJECT BUDGET INCREASE IN EXCESS OF 10 PERCENT (approved by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on March 13, 2007)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the budget for the Claude Moore Medical Education Building is increased by $5 million, from $30 million to $35 million.

APPROVAL OF ADDITIONAL AMENDMENTS TO THE 2008-14 SIX YEAR CAPITAL OUTLAY PLAN (approved by the Finance Committee on April 12, 2007, and by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on April 13, 2007)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that projects to renovate New Cabell Hall, to expand the Central Chiller Plant, and to plan to construct a New Biology Building are approved as amendments to the 2008-14 Six-Year Capital Outlay Plan for the Academic Division.

APPROVAL OF CONTRACT RATES FOR DINING SERVICES FOR 2007-2008 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE (approved by the Finance Committee on April 12, 2007)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ACADEMIC DIVISION

Actual 2006-07

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 2007-08

Regular Meal Plans (1,2)

Unlimited Entry w/$150 Plus Dollars

$3,270

$150

4.6%

$3,420

15 Meals per week w/$400 Plus Dollars

3,270

150

4.6%

3,420

13 Meals per week w/$500 Plus Dollars

3,270

150

4.6%

3,420

10 Meals per week (first year) w/$820 Plus Dollars

3,270

150

4.6%

3,420

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/$330 Plus Dollars

2,800

130

4.6%

2,930

100 Meals per semester w/$350 Plus Dollars

1,860

100

5.4%

1,960

80 Meals per semester w/$350 Plus Dollars

1,620

80

4.9%

1,700

50 Meals per semester w/$390 Plus Dollars

1,230

40

3.3%

1,270

Residential College/Language House Meal Plans (1,2,3)

Unlimited Entry w/$150 Plus Dollars

$3,380

$150

4.4%

$3,530

15 Meals per week w/$400 Plus Dollars

3,380

150

4.4%

3,530

13 Meals per week w/$500 Plus Dollars

3,380

150

4.4%

3,530

10 Meals per week (first year) w/$820 Plus Dollars

3,380

150

4.4%

3,530

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/$330 Plus Dollars

2,910

130

4.5%

3,040

100 Meals per semester w/$350 Plus Dollars

1,970

100

5.1%

2,070

80 Meals per semester w/$350 Plus Dollars

1,730

80

4.6%

1,810

50 Meals per semester w/$390 Plus Dollars

1,340

40

3.0%

1,380

Athletic Meal Plans

Unlimited Entry w/$150 Plus Dollars

$3,380

$150

4.4%

$3,530

15 Meals per week w/$400 Plus Dollars

3,380

150

4.4%

3,530

13 Meals per week w/$500 Plus Dollars

3,380

150

4.4%

3,530

10 Meals per week (first year) w/$820 Plus Dollars

3,380

150

4.4%

3,530

Actual 2006-07

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 2007-08

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/$330 Plus Dollars

2,910

130

4.5%

3,040

100 Meals per semester w/$350 Plus Dollars

1,970

100

5.1%

2,070

80 Meals per semester w/$350 Plus Dollars

1,730

80

4.6%

1,810

Other

Law School Meal Plan (4)

$200

$0

$200

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE

19 Meal Plan

$2,848

$142

5.0%

$2,990

12 Meal Plan

2,560

128

5.0%

2,688

(1) Plus Dollars are credited to a student's identification card and may be used in the same manner as cash at any board dining hall and/or retail operation. (2) First-year students are required to purchase a 13, 15, or unlimited meal plan during their first semester. During their second semester, they may switch to a 10 meal plan with $820 Plus Dollars. (3) Some residential colleges and language houses have a dining requirement as part of their program. (4) Law School students are allowed to deposit a minimum $200 per academic year into a dining spending account.

RESOLVED that the student contract rates for dining services are approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 2007-2008 session:

APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL PLANS FOR CAPITAL PROJECTS ADDED TO THE SIX YEAR CAPITAL PLAN (2008-2014)(approved by the Finance Committee on April 12, 2007)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the financial plans for the following projects to be added to the 2008-14 Capital Outlay Plan -Improvements to the Baseball and Softball Facilities, Expansion of the Central Grounds Chiller Plant, and Planning for a new Biology Building - are reasonable and complete; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, that in cases where additional analysis is required or fundraising plans developed to determine the financial feasibility of a project, no construction shall begin until the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, in consultation with the Chair of the Finance Committee, approves the revised financial plan.

APPROVAL OF PROJECT BUDGET INCREASE IN EXCESS OF TEN PERCENT - CLAUDE MOORE MEDICAL EDUCATION BUILDING (approved by the Finance Committee on April 12, 2007)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the budget for the Claude Moore Medical Education Building is increased by $5 million, from $30 million to $35 million.

APPROVAL OF REVISED ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS - THROUGH 2013-2014 (approved by the Finance Committee on April 12, 2007)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University's existing enrollment plan, approved by the Board of Visitors in March 2005, must be revised to reflect projected increases in the undergraduate and graduate enrollment levels; and

WHEREAS, the Board previously discussed and approved the University's action plan relative to enrollment growth - to grow by 1,100 undergraduate students and 400 graduate students over the next decade; and

WHEREAS, the University is committed to serving the higher education needs of the Commonwealth of Virginia and the nation; and

WHEREAS, the revised enrollment projections for 2007-2008 through 2013-2014 were submitted to the State Council of Higher Education in Virginia on April 7, 2007;

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to develop plans with the State Council of Higher Education in Virginia which will keep the University on track to increase total enrollment by 1,500 students over the next decade; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that all undergraduate growth maintain the current mix of in-state and out-of-state students.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION, REQUIRED FEES, AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2006-07 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2007-08 Proposed

2006-07 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2007-08 Proposed

REGULAR SESSION:

Undergraduate School - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University Activity Fee and excluding School Activity Fee which varies by school:

Tuition

$ 6,129

$ 499

8.1%

$ 6,628

$ 24,053

$ 1,590

6.6%

$ 25,643

Required E&G Fees

$ 153

$ 40

26.1%

$ 193

$ 329

$ 99

30.1%

$ 428

Subtotal Tuition and E&G Fees

$ 6,282

$ 539

8.6%

$ 6,821

$ 24,382

$ 1,689

6.9%

$ 26,071

Required Auxiliary Fees

$ 1,516

$ 116

7.7%

$ 1,632

$ 1,516

$ 116

7.7%

$ 1,632

Required Activity Fee

$ 47

$ -

0.0%

$ 47

$ 47

$ -

0.0%

$ 47

Total Tuition and Fees For All Full-time Students

$ 7,845

$ 655

8.3%

$ 8,500

$ 25,945

$ 1,805

7.0%

$ 27,750

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2006-07 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2007-08 Proposed

2006-07 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2007-08 Proposed

REGULAR SESSION:

Graduate School - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University Activity Fee and excluding School Activity Fee which varies by school:

All Full-time Students

$ 10,550

$ 690

6.5%

$ 11,240

$ 20,550

$ 690

3.4%

$ 21,240

School of Commerce - Grad Accounting - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University Activity Fee and excluding School Activity Fee which varies by school:

All Full-time Students

$23,200

$ 800

3.4%

$ 24,000

$ 29,000

$ 1,000

3.4%

$ 30,000

School of Medicine - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University and School Activity Fees:

Full-time Students Entering Fall 2006

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 31,305

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 41,305

Full-time Students Entering Fall 2005

$ 30,100

$ 1,205

4.0%

$ 31,305

$ 40,100

$ 1,205

3.0%

$ 41,305

Full-time Students Entering Fall 2004

$ 30,100

$ 1,205

4.0%

$ 31,305

$ 40,100

$ 1,205

3.0%

$ 41,305

Full-time Students Entering Fall 2003

$ 29,600

$ 1,205

4.1%

$ 30,805

$ 40,100

$ 1,205

3.0%

$ 41,305

Darden Graduate School of Business Administration - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University and School Activity Fees:

Regular Session Full-time Students

$ 35,000

$ 2,500

7.1%

$ 37,500

$ 40,000

$ 2,500

6.3%

$ 42,500

School of Law - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University and School Activity Fees:

All Full-time Students

$ 30,700

$ 2,800

9.1%

$ 33,500

$ 35,700

$ 2,800

7.8%

$ 38,500

SPECIAL SESSION:

School of Continuing and Professional Studies Tuition Rates:

Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies (per sem.)

$ 2,863

$ 255

8.9%

$ 3,118

$ 10,650

$ 450

4.2%

$ 11,100

Undergraduate Per Hour

$ 200

$ 18

9.0%

$ 218

$ 350

$ 21

6.0%

$ 371

Graduate Per Hour

$ 245

$ 15

6.1%

$ 260

$ 385

$ 15

3.9%

$ 400

K-12 Educators Per Hour

$ 210

$ 5

2.4%

$ 215

$ 315

$ 10

3.2%

$ 325

Undergraduate Distance Learning Per Hour

$ 245

$ 22

9.0%

$ 267

$ 320

$ 17

5.3%

$ 337

Graduate Distance Learning Per Hour

$ 270

$ 15

5.6%

$ 285

$ 320

$ 17

5.3%

$ 337

Graduate Televised Engineering Per Hour

$ 360

$ 20

5.6%

$ 380

$ 630

$ 15

2.4%

$ 645

Special SCPS Students Per Hour

$ 250

$ 22

8.8%

$ 272

$ 1,000

$ -

0.0%

$ 1,000

Special SCPS Students Per Hour - High School Students

$ 200

$ 18

9.0%

$ 218

$ 350

$ 20

5.7%

$ 370

Study Abroad (per semester) 3-7 hours

$ 2,310

$ 210

9.1%

$ 2,520

$ 2,465

$ 148

6.0%

$ 2,613

Study Abroad (per semester) 8-15 hours

$ 4,050

$ 370

9.1%

$ 4,420

$ 4,200

$ 250

6.0%

$ 4,450

Music Lessons (13 1-hr lessons/semester)

$ 654

$ -

0.0%

$ 654

$ 654

$ -

0.0%

$ 654

Northern Virginia Facilities Fee Per Hour

$ 17

$ -

0.0%

$ 17

$ 17

$ -

0.0%

$ 17

Technology Fee (per hour)

$ 4

$ -

0.0%

$ 4

$ 4

$ -

0.0%

$ 4

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2006-07 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2007-08 Proposed

2006-07 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2007-08 Proposed

2008 Summer Session, 2008 January Term and Mt. Lake Biological Station:

Undergraduate Per Semester Hour

$ 200

$ 18

9.0%

$ 218

$ 800

$ -

0.0%

$ 800

Graduate Per Semester Hour

$ 230

$ 30

13.0%

$ 260

$ 660

$ -

0.0%

$ 660

Thesis/Dissertation Research

$ 850

$ 70

8.2%

$ 920

$ 850

$ 70

8.2%

$ 920

Appellate Judges Program

$ 1,400

$ -

0.0%

$ 1,400

$ 1,450

$ -

0.0%

$ 1,450

Non-Resident Fee

$ 115

$ 29

25.2 %

$ 144

$ 115

$ 29

25.2%

$ 144

Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee

$ 40

$ 2

5.0%

$ 42

$ 40

$ 2

5.0%

$ 42

Mt. Lake Laboratory Use Fee

$ 93

$ 4

4.3%

$ 97

$ 93

$ 4

4.3%

$ 97

Mt. Lake Non-UVa Researcher - Senior Investigators

$ 270

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 270

n/a

n/a

n/a

Mt. Lake Non-UVa Researcher - Co-Investigators/Students

$ 71

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 71

n/a

n/a

n/a

2007 New Student Orientation Fee

$ 190

$ -

0.0%

$ 190

$ 190

$ -

0.0%

$ 190

(The Orientation Fee will be rolled into the total tuition and fee bill for first year and transfer students in the first year of enrollment.)

OTHER: Other contracted course and cooperative program tuition and required fee rates, including tuition for specialized graduate and professional credit courses, approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.

All Students

2006-07 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2007-08 Proposed

Other Charges:

Application Fee - Undergraduate

$ 60

$ -

0.0%

$ 60

Application Fee - Graduate

$ 60

$ -

0.0%

$ 60

Application Fee - Law

$ 70

$ 5

7.1%

$ 75

Application Fee - Darden

$ 140

$ 50

35.7%

$ 190

Application Fee - Darden Executive MBA

$ 140

$ 50

35.7%

$ 190

Application Fee - Medicine

$ 75

$ 5

6.7%

$ 80

Application Fee - SCPS

$ 25

$ -

0.0%

$ 25

Application Fee - SCPS BIS

$ 60

$ -

0.0%

$ 60

Application Fee - Commerce

$ 40

$ -

0.0%

$ 40

Activity Fee - All Full-time Students

$ 47

$ -

0.0%

$ 47

Activity Fee - Arts & Sciences

$ 8

$ -

0.0%

$ 8

Activity Fee - Architecture

$ 60

$ -

0.0%

$ 60

Activity Fee - Commerce

$ 55

$ -

0.0%

$ 55

Activity Fee - Darden

$ 55

$ -

0.0%

$ 55

Activity Fee - Education

$ 10

$ -

0.0%

$ 10

Activity Fee - Engineering

$ 10

$ -

0.0%

$ 10

Activity Fee - Grad. Arts & Sciences

$ 10

$ -

0.0%

$ 10

Activity Fee - Law School

$ 40

$ -

0.0%

$ 40

Activity Fee - Medicine

$ 49

$ 2

4.1%

$ 51

Activity Fee - Nursing

$ 15

$ -

0.0%

$ 15

Residential College Fee - Hereford

$ 120

$ -

0.0%

$ 120

Residential College Fee - Brown

$ 120

$ -

0.0%

$ 120

Residential College Fee - International

$ 220

$ -

0.0%

$ 220

Residential College Fee - Mosaic

$ 220

$ -

0.0%

$ 220

Residential College Fee - French

$ 100

$ -

0.0%

$ 100

Residential College Fee - Spanish

$ 100

$ -

0.0%

$ 100

Residential College Fee - Monroe Lane

$ 100

$ -

0.0%

$ 100

International Student Fee

$ 100

$ -

0.0%

$ 100

WHEREAS, in October 2005, the University of Virginia submitted a six year financial plan to the Commonwealth, which included a projection of a 2007-08 in-state tuition and educational and general (E&G) fee increase of 9.9 percent to $6,906; and

WHEREAS, in the 2007 General Assembly session, the Commonwealth instituted a Tuition Incentive Fund to encourage colleges and universities to increase in-state undergraduate tuition and E&G fees by no more than six percent for educational and general purposes; and

WHEREAS, the Tuition Incentive Fund allows for tuition and E&G fee increases in excess of six percent, but limited to the projection in the Six Year Plan, provided the incremental revenues are allocated to increasing in-state undergraduate financial aid over the level funded in 2006-2007;

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the Academic Division be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 2007.

RESOLVED FURTHER that $1.5 million, the incremental revenue generated by a 8.6 percent in-state undergraduate tuition and E&G fee increase versus a six percent in-state undergraduate tuition and E&G fee increase, be allocated to increase financial aid for in-state undergraduates above the 2006-2007 level.

APPROVAL OF ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES FOR 2007-08 REGULAR SESSION OF THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2006-07 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2007-08 Proposed

2006-07 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2007-08 Proposed

OOS Debt Service - Capital Outlay and ETF

$ -

$ -

0.0%

$ -

$ 176

$ 59

33.5%

$ 235

Classroom Renewal Fee

$ 30

$ -

0.0%

$ 30

$ 30

$ -

0.0%

$ 30

Arts Fee

$ 12

$ -

0.0%

$ 12

$ 12

$ -

0.0%

$ 12

Technology Fee

$ 45

$ -

0.0%

$ 45

$ 45

$ -

0.0%

$ 45

E&G Facilities Construction and Renovation

$ 66

$ 40

60.6%

$ 106

$ 66

$ 40

60.6%

$ 106

Subtotal Required E&G Fees

$ 153

$ 40

26.1%

$193

$ 329

$ 99

30.1%

$ 428

University Transit

$ 126

$ 5

4.0%

$ 131

$ 126

$ 5

4.0%

$ 131

Safe Ride

$ 4

$ -

0.0%

$ 4

$ 4

$ -

0.0%

$ 4

Recreational Facilities

$ 227

$ -

0.0%

$ 227

$ 227

$ -

0.0%

$ 227

Auxiliary Debt Service

$ 85

$ -

0.0%

$ 85

$ 85

$ -

0.0%

$ 85

Athletics

$ 548

$ 59

10.8%

$ 607

$ 548

$ 59

10.8%

$ 607

Student Health

$ 359

$ 11

3.1%

$ 370

$ 359

$ 11

3.1%

$ 370

Newcomb Hall

$ 133

$ 40

30.1%

$ 173

$ 133

$ 40

30.1%

$ 173

Student Programming

$ 28

$ 1

3.6%

$ 29

$ 28

$ 1

3.6%

$ 29

WTJU

$ 6

$ -

0.0%

$ 6

$ 6

$ -

0.0%

$ 6

Subtotal Required Auxiliary Fees

$ 1,516

$ 116

7.7%

$ 1,632

$ 1,516

$ 116

7.7%

$ 1,632

TOTAL FOR ALL STUDENTS

$1,669

$ 156

9.3%

$1,825

$ 1,845

$ 215

11.7%

$ 2,060

RESOLVED that the annual required fees for students enrolled in more than three credit hours per semester be established, effective July 1, 2007, in the amount of $1,825 for in-state students and $2,060 for out-of-state students; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the full-time mandatory regular session fee be allocated for 2007-08 as follows:

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION, REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2006-07 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2007-08 Proposed

2006-07 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2007-08 Proposed

Full-time Students (12 hrs or more per semester)

Tuition and Required E&G Fees

$ 3,312

$ 173

5.2%

$ 3,485

$ 14,348

$ 801

5.6%

$ 15,149

Auxiliary Fees

$ 2,380

$ 286

12.0%

$ 2,666

$ 2,380

$ 286

12.0%

$ 2,666

Total Tuition and Required Fees

$ 5,692

$ 459

8.1%

$ 6,151

$ 16,728

$ 1,087

6.5%

$ 17,815

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the tuition rates listed below:

Other Charges

Off-Campus Instruction per hour

$ 134

$ 7

5.2%

$ 141

$ 587

$ 31

5.3%

$ 618

Non-Credit Courses per unit

$ 59

$ 3

5.1%

$ 62

$ 179

$ 9

5.0%

$ 188

Application Fee

$ 25

$ -

0.0%

$ 25

$ 25

$ -

0.0%

$ 25

Graduation Fee

$ 100

$ -

0.0%

$ 100

$ 100

$ -

0.0%

$ 100

Registration Fee for part-time students will be $5 per semester hour.

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the University of Virginia's College at Wise be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 2007:

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to approve reduced tuition rates for residents of Kentucky and Tennessee who live in counties that are within a 50-mile radius of The University of Virginia's College at Wise and who are enrolled at the College in accordance with Section 23-7.4:2.F. of the Code of Virginia.

CHANGE IN NAME OF CHAIR - JUSTICE THURGOOD MARSHALL DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED, the Justice Thurgood Marshall Research Professorship in Law, established by the Board of Visitors in February, 2004, is changed to the Justice Thurgood Marshall Distinguished Professorship in Law; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Board expresses its appreciation to the many donors whose generosity has made this possible.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION FOR GEORGIA WILLIS FAUBER
----------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Georgia Willis Fauber, then Georgia Willis and then of Ruther Glen in Caroline County, was appointed to the Board of Visitors in 2003 by Governor Warner; and

WHEREAS, Georgia Willis subsequently married J.E. Fauber, of Lynchburg, known as Ebo, to the delight of their many friends, and became of Lynchburg and no longer of Ruther Glen; and

WHEREAS, Georgia and Ebo have been valued adornments to every Board gathering; and

WHEREAS, Georgia's love of the University was manifest from the first day of her service on the Board of Visitors; and

WHEREAS, Georgia served the Board and the University with great devotion as Chair of the Audit and Compliance Committee and has been a worthy and faithful representative of the Board in a number of University organizations and at a staggering variety and number of University functions; and

WHEREAS, Georgia's culinary abilities are well known to her friends and colleagues and are not the least of her attributes; and

WHEREAS, Georgia's term on the Board ended in April, 2007;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors thanks Georgia Willis Fauber for her devoted service to the University and to the Board, expresses its sense of the value of her friendship, and takes comfort in the fact that her association with them and with the University will not end with her departure from the Board.

RESOLUTION COMMENDING ANNE ELIZABETH MULLEN
-------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Anne Elizabeth Mullen of Greenwood was elected Student Member of the Board of Visitors on February 3, 2006; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Mullen has served the Board with devotion, grace and good humor, manifesting her love of the University as a good bellwether of student opinion for the Board, and as an advocate of the interests of her fellow students; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Mullen will finish her term on the Board of Visitors at the conclusion of the Board meeting on April 13, and will take her degree from the University in May;

RESOLVED, the Board thanks its friend and colleague, Anne Elizabeth Mullen, for her service to the University and for her friendship, and wishes her every success as she begins her career with McKinsey and Company.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION ON HOVEY SLAYTON DABNEY
-------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Hovey Slayton Dabney was born in Charlottesville on September 18, 1923 and after military service during the Second World War, took a B.A. from the University in 1948 and his law degree the following year; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Dabney began a banking career in 1949 that lasted the rest of his working life, becoming President of the National Bank and Trust Company in Charlottesville in 1963 and Chairman in 1975; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Dabney devoted himself to the life of his native city, serving on numerous boards and commissions but exerting an influence far beyond the listing of his memberships; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Dabney was appointed to the Board of Visitors by Governor Wilder in 1990 and reappointed by Governor Allen in 1994; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Dabney was elected Rector in 1992 and re-elected in 1996; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Dabney, as Rector, provided the leadership of the University's Second Capital Campaign; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Dabney died in Charlottesville on February 9, 2007;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors pays tribute to the life and service of Hovey Slayton Dabney, in particular his service to the University of Virginia, notes with sorrow his passing, and expresses its condolences to Mrs. Dabney and their daughters and son.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION ON KENNETH P. ASBURY
----------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Kenneth P. Asbury was born in Wise County in 1922; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Asbury, after service in the United States Army during the Second World War, took both his undergraduate and Law degrees from Washington and Lee University; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Asbury returned to Wise County after graduation to begin the practice of the Law, a practice that he continued for fifty years becoming, in due course, President of the Virginia State Bar, and the Wise County Bar Association, Commonwealth's Attorney for Wise County for sixteen years; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Asbury gave a lifetime of service to Southwest Virginia and to Wise County, having been, at one time or another a member of virtually every board and organization in the county; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Asbury is perhaps best known as one of "The Three Wise Men," the delegation of three prominent Wise citizens who in 1954 persuaded President Darden to approve the establishment of Clinch Valley College, now The University of Virginia's College at Wise; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Asbury was named to the College's first advisory board and served until his death on March 12, 2007;

RESOLVED, The Board of Visitors notes with sorrow the passing of Kenneth P. Asbury, citizen of Wise, pays honor to his life of service, to his community, to Southwest Virginia and to the Commonwealth, and above all honors his role in the founding of The University of Virginia's College at Wise; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Board expresses its deepest sympathy to Mrs. Asbury and her family.

COMMENDING THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY'S RESOLUTION ON SLAVERY
-------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the General Assembly of Virginia in its 2007 Session adopted resolutions acknowledging "with profound regret the involuntary servitude of Africans....and calling for reconciliation among all Virginians;" and

WHEREAS, the Governor has signed the resolutions; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors commends the Governor and the General Assembly for these actions and expresses its regret for the institution of slavery in this state; and

WHEREAS, the notion of involuntary servitude is repugnant and incompatible with the ideals upon which this University was founded, the ideals upon which the Commonwealth was organized in 1776, and the ideals embodied in our national Declaration of Independence in the same year; and

WHEREAS, the mostly anonymous laborers employed in the construction of the University were both enslaved and free, as was the University's workforce between 1825 and 1865; and

WHEREAS, the Board expresses its particular regret for the employment of enslaved persons in these years; and

WHEREAS, the Board expresses as well its profound respect for the contributions of these women and men, by whose ingenuity and labor much of what is now admired at the University as a national and world treasure came to be;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors recommits itself to the principles of equal opportunity and to the principle that human freedom and learning are and must be inextricably linked in this Commonwealth and in this Republic; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Board affirms that the benefits of useful knowledge must belong commonly to all who present themselves qualified for admission to the University, and that this useful knowledge ought to be the common treasure of all who come here.

(Several Members commented that the resolution is "long overdue.")

REPORT ON NAMINGS: THE WILLIAM A. ELWOOD LIBRARY ENDOWMENT AND SCHOLAR'S STUDY, THE ANDREW P. SOMLYO CONFERENCE ROOM, AND THE MIZELL PRESS ROOM
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported to the Board three namings, namings which do not require Board action: the William A. Elwood Library Endowment and Scholar's Study on the second floor of the Harrison Institute/Small Special Collection Library; the Andrew P. Somlyo Conference Room in the Department of Molecular Physiology at Jordan Hall in the School of Medicine; and the Mizell Press Room in the John Paul Jones Arena.

The Elwood Library Endowment and Scholar's Study honors the late William A. Elwood, member of the English faculty, a Special Assistant to President Shannon and Associate Dean of the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences.

The late Andrew P. Somlyo, M.D., was Chair of Molecular Physiology and Charles Slaughter Professor of Physiology.

The Mizell Press Room is a gift from Robert F. Mizell of Richmond, an alumnus of the McIntire School.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Election of Chairholders(b) Change of Title of Chairholders (c) Special Salary Action of Chairholders (d) Retirement of Chairholders (e) Resignation of Chairholders(f) Election of Chairholders EmeritiPROMOTIONSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTSCHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE RETIREMENT OF DR. CLAUDETTE E. DALTONAPPOINTMENTRE-APPOINTMENTSELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITIELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITA DEATHS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the following person is promoted:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirements were announced:

The President will announce that the title of the retirement of Dr. Claudette E. Dalton, Assistant Professor of Medical Education, effective July 31, 2006, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated September 29-30, 2006, be changed to read as follows:

The following appointment was announced:

The following re-appointments were announced:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Associate Professor Emerita:

The following deaths were announced:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISEELECTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONCHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE SPECIAL SALARY ACTION FOR MR. GARY W. JUHANRETIREMENTELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUSDEATH
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:

RESOLVED that the title of the special salary action for Mr. Gary W. Juhan, Lecturer, General Faculty, The University of Virginia's College at Wise, effective July 25, 2006, at an annual salary of $120,900, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated February 9, 2007, be changed to read as follows:

The following retirement was announced:

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Associate Professor Emeritus:

The following death was announced:

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 3:50 p.m.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: April 13, 2007CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session - as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia - only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration in closed session.

RESOLUTIONS NOT REQUIRING ACTION BY THE FULL BOARD BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE, APRIL 13, 2007APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE ARTS GATEWAY TO THE UNIVERSITY APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE SMIDDY HALL RENOVATION AND THE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY BUILDING CONSTRUCTION AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolutions were adopted in Board Committees and do not have to be approved by the full Board; they are enumerated below as a matter of record.

RESOLVED that Weiss/Manfredi, of New York is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Arts Gateway to the University at the University of Virginia, subject to the approval of the President before a contract or any other binding agreement is signed.

RESOLVED that Calloway Johnson Moore & West, PA, of Lynchburg, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Smiddy Hall and IT Building at The University of Virginia's College at Wise.