 TEI to HTML

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS JUNE 8, 2007
---------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Approval of the Minutes of the April 13, 2007 Meeting of the Board of Visitors

7322

Election of the Vice Rector

7322

Resolution Electing the Executive Committee

7323

Resolution Extending the Special Committee on Diversity

7323

Resolution Extending the Special Committee on Planning

7323

Resolution Extending the Special Committee on Foundations

7324

Resolution Extending the Subcommittee on Legislative and Executive Affairs

7324

Resolution Setting the Annual Meeting for 2008

7324

Resolution for Additions to the Agenda

7324

Resolution Accepting the Gifts and Grants Report

7328

Approval to Request a Permanent Easement for the University of Virginia from the City of Charlottesville

7331

Approval of Property Acquisitions

7331

Approval of Establishment of the Medical Center Quasi- Endowment for the Benefit of the School of Medicine

7332

Approval of Audit Schedule

7332

Approval of the Compliance Schedule

7332

Approval of the Summary of Audit Findings

7332

Approval of Project Scope and Budget Modifications

7332

Approval of the 2007-2008 Operating Budget and Annual Renovation and Infrastructure Plan for the Academic Division

7333

PAGE

Approval of the 2007-2008 Operating Budget for The University of Virginia College at Wise

7333

Approval of the 2007-2008 Operating and Capital Budgets and Annual Renovation and Infrastructure Plan for the University of Virginia Medical Center

7333

Approval of Pratt Fund Distribution for 2007-2008

7333

Approval of Project Scope, Budget Modifications, and Additional Use of Debt

7334

Approval of Intent to Issue Tax-Exempt Debt

7334

Approval of Student System Revised Budget

7336

Approval of Revisions to the Investment Policy Statement

7337

Appointments to the Board of The University of Virginia College at Wise

7338

Budget/Scope Adjustments to the Dining and Residence Hall Projects at the College at Wise

7338

Modification of Prior Approval to Enter into a Joint Venture for a Long Term Acute Care Hospital

7339

Resolution Authorizing the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to Accept Real Property to Fulfill Gift Agreements

7340

Inviting Faculty Participation in Three Board Committees

7340

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

7341

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Election of Chairholder

7342

Change in the Election of Dr. David S. Geldmacher

7343

Promotion of Chairholders

7343

Change of Title of Chairholder

7344

Special Salary Action of Chairolder

7344

Resignations of Chairholders

7344

Promotions

7344

Special Salary Actions

7354

Resignations

7355

PAGE

Retirement

7356

Appointments

7356

Re-Appointments

7356

Election of Dr. Arthur Garson, Jr., as Executive Vice President and Provost

7357

Election of Dr. Sharon L. Hostler as Interim Vice President and Dean of the School of Medicine

7357

Election of Professor Emeritus

7357

Death

7357

The University of Virginia College at Wise

Resignation

7358

Appointment

7358

Establishment of the Jaquelin T. Robertson Visiting Professorship in Architecture

7359

Resolutions Adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee, May 8, 2007

Approval of Architect Selection for the Lee Street Entry and Connective Elements

7362

Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the Lee Street Entry and Connective Elements

7362

Approval of Schematic Design for Hospital Bed Expansion

7362

Resolutions Adopted by the Medical Center Operating Board, May 7, 2007

Endorsement of Schematic Design for Hospital Bed Expansion

7363

Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions

7363

SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS June 8, 2007
-------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 9:00 a.m., Friday, June 8, 2007, in the Board Room of the Rotunda; Thomas F. Farrell, II, Rector, presided. W. Heywood Fralin, Vice Rector, Daniel R. Abramson, A. Macdonald Caputo, The Honorable Alan A. Diamonstein, Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., Ms. Glynn D. Key, Austin Ligon, Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr., The Honorable Lewis F. Payne, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Warren M. Thompson, John O. Wynne, and Carey J. Mignerey were present.

Present as well were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D., William B. Harvey, James L. Hilton, R. Edward Howell, Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, Ms. Yoke San L. Reynolds, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Robert D. Sweeney, Craig K. Littlepage, David J. Prior, William S. Flippen, Jr., Ms. Julie P. Myers, Brian Boland, Kevin Sauer, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Rector opened the meeting and asked Mr. Ligon to lead the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.

Approval of the Minutes of the April 13, 2007 Meeting of the Board of Visitors
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On motion, the Minutes of the Board meeting held on April 13th, were approved.

Election of the Vice Rector
---------------------------

Pursuant to the terms set forth in the Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector asked the Secretary to conduct the election of the Vice Rector.

Ms. Key nominated Mr. Wynne for the position. There being no other nominations, the Secretary closed the nominations and took a roll call vote. All Members present voted for Mr. Wynne, and the Secretary declared him elected.

Election of the Executive Committee
-----------------------------------

Noting that this meeting is the designated Annual Meeting of the Board, the Rector reminded Members that at the Annual Meeting, the Executive Committee must be elected, special committees extended (special committees must be extended annually) and the standing committees appointed.

The Rector proposed the following slate for the Executive Committee: the Rector (Mr. Fralin), the Vice Rector (Mr. Wynne), Mr. Caputo, Ms. Dorsey, Mr. Farrell, and Mr. Fitz-Hugh. Their terms are to begin on July 1st.

RESOLUTION ELECTING THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------------------

On motion, the following resolution was approved:

RESOLVED, the Executive Committee shall consist of the Rector, the Vice Rector, A. Macdonald Caputo, Susan Y. Dorsey, Thomas F. Farrell, II, and G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr. Their terms of office will begin on July 1, 2007.

Extension of the Special CommitteesRESOLUTION EXTENDING THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON DIVERSITYRESOLUTION EXTENDING THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON PLANNINGRESOLUTION EXTENDING THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON FOUNDATIONS RESOLUTION EXTENDING THE SUBCOMMITTEE ON LEGISLATIVE AND EXECUTIVE AFFAIRS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector said that after consulting with the Vice Rector, he proposed that the Special Committee on Diversity, the Special Committee on Planning, the Special Committee on Foundations, and the Subcommittee on Legislative and Executive Affairs be extended until the next Annual Meeting.

Accordingly, the following resolutions were proposed and approved:

RESOLVED, the Special Committee on Diversity is extended to the Annual Meeting of 2008.

RESOLVED, the Special Committee on Planning is extended to the Annual Meeting of 2008.

RESOLVED, the Special Committee on Foundations is extended to the Annual Meeting of 2008.

RESOLVED, the Subcommittee on Legislative and Executive Affairs is extended to the Annual Meeting of 2008.

Appointment of Standing Committees
----------------------------------

The Rector said the Vice Rector, Mr. Fralin, would announce the Standing Committees at the end of the Board meeting.

Setting of the Annual Meeting for 2008RESOLUTION SETTING THE ANNUAL MEETING FOR 2008
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector proposed that the Board meeting set for June 13, 2008, be designated the Annual Meeting.

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors meeting set for June 13, 2008, is designated the Annual Meeting.

Additions to the AgendaRESOLUTION FOR ADDITIONS TO THE AGENDA
-------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector called for a motion to approve consideration of additions to the published Agenda of the meeting.

On motion, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the addition of items to the Agenda for consideration by the Board.

The Tragedy at Virginia Tech
----------------------------

Noting that the tragedy that occurred at Virginia Tech on April 16th, is on the minds of all Virginians, the Rector told the Board that he, the President, and others attended the memorial services in Blacksburg and that there were memorial services in Charlottesville, both in local churches and at the University. He said that a number of University staff went to Blacksburg to help out and that there was a general outpouring of grief and sympathy from students and faculty at the University.

He asked for a moment of silence for the victims at Virginia Tech and encouraged Members to reflect on the bonds that unite the two schools, bonds which have been strengthened by the events of April 16th. That strengthening, he said, is a very positive thing.

NCAA Orientation
----------------

The Rector reminded Members that once a year, the Board invites someone from the Athletics Department to review with the Board the its responsibilities toward the University athletic programs. Essentially, he said, this means a review of the Board obligations under the NCAA rules and a listing of what Members can and cannot do, particularly with regard to recruiting.

The orientation was conducted by Mr. William S. Flippen, Jr., Director of Compliance in the Department of Athletics. His summary of the NCAA rules is appended to these Minutes as Attachment A.

Introduction of Coaches
-----------------------

Mr. Littlepage, Director of Athletics, introduced three coaches whose teams have had successful seasons this year: Mr. Brian Boland, Head Coach of Men Tennis; Ms. Julie Myers, Head Coach of Women Lacrosse, and Mr. Kevin Sauer, Head Coach of Women Rowing. Mr. Boland spoke, briefly, on behalf of his two colleagues.

President ReportSecurity EffortsPersonnel ChangesThe Batten School
------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector asked the President to give his customary report.

The President reviewed briefly the security efforts in progress at the University as a result of the shootings at Virginia Tech. These include:

Clarifying operating procedures for the immediate cancellation of classes and the closing of the University to all but essential personnel.

Creation of an emergency management office.

Planning for upgraded security requirements for all new buildings and those scheduled for renovation.

Conducting in-service training for faculty, student affairs staff, and others on laws regarding the admission and retention of students who seem potentially dangerous.

Reviewing policies on employee terminations or disciplinary actions to minimize the risk of violence and to protect staff.

Accelerating the installation of a student/employee notification system that simultaneously distributes text, e-mail, and web messages to cell phones.

Exploring the installation of a Grounds-wide siren and public address system to warn of imminent danger.

The President then noted several personnel changes: Dr. Garson, the Dean of the School of Medicine, will become the Provost this summer; Dr. Sharon Hostler, currently Associate Dean of the School of Medicine, will serve as Dean ad-interim.

Mr. Robert Pianta will become Dean of the Curry School of Education this summer; Mr. Breneman, the current Dean, will remain on the faculty.

Ms. Lancaster, the Dean of the School of Nursing since 1989, will step down next year. Ms. Stallard, the Dean of the School of Continuing and Professional Studies, will leave at the end of the summer to become the President of Strayer University in Washington.

The President told the Board that he hopes the new Dean of Arts & Sciences will be named shortly.

The President then described the work being done on the planning and implementation of the Batten School. There is a large committee at work; the co-chairs of the committee are Mr. Breneman, the current Dean of the Curry School, and Mr. Eric Patashnik of the Politics Department. The co-chairs have met with faculty at the Center for Public Leadership at the Kennedy School at Harvard, and with faculty at Duke and Berkeley.

The five-year BA/MPP program in public policy, which was created before the Batten gift was made but which in due course will become part of the Batten School, will enroll its first class this fall. There are 30 students in the entering class, all rising fourth year students from a variety of undergraduate majors.

Gifts and Grants ReportRESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE GIFTS AND GRANTS REPORT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Turning to his customary gifts and grants report, the President said that philanthropic giving to the University of Virginia and its related foundations was $249million for the fiscal year through April 30th, an increase of $57million, or 29.7%, over the same period last year.

Among the significant gifts received since the April Board meeting are $1,894,109 in deferred giving and for unrestricted use from Susan S. and John O. Wynne. The Wallace H. Coulter Foundation has made a $1,000,000 grant for the Translational Research Partnership Fund between the Medical and Engineering Schools. The Melville Foundation has made a $1,000,000 pledge payment to the Jefferson Scholars Foundation and the Caplin Foundation has pledged $1,000,000 to the Miller Center Foundation for the Caplin Conference Fund.

On motion, a resolution accepting the Gifts and Grants Report was approved.

RESOLVED, the Report of Private Gifts for the period March 1, 2007 - April 30, 2007, is accepted.

The Preliminary Meeting ended at 9:55 a.m.

Mr. and Mrs. Schwartz on the "Role of Parents at the University
---------------------------------------------------------------

Ms. Dorsey, as Chair of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, asked Ms. Lampkin, Vice President for Student Affairs, to introduce Ms. Sheryl and Mr. Barry Schwartz of Oakton in Fairfax County.

Mr. and Mrs. Schwartz have been members of the Parents Committee, the Annual Giving Advisory Board and founding members of UVa Families, among other organizations at the University. Their son Robert, who was an Echols Scholar, took his B.A. in 2005 and their daughter, Lauren, has just completed her first year in the College.

Under the general heading of ole of Parents at the University, Mr. and Mrs. Schwartz described some of their experiences and impressions of the University, as well as their children. It was a positive report by enthusiastic supporters of the University who are not alumni, and was well received by the Board.

Mr. and Mrs. Schwartz presentation ended at 10:25 a.m.

Policy Discussion and Executive Session
---------------------------------------

After a five minute recess, and the adoption of the following motions, the Board went into Executive Session for a discussion of policy and other matters.

That the Board of Visitors convene in Closed Session to consult with General Counsel on his privileged legal report to us concerning pending and anticipated litigation affecting the University, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Closed Session for the purpose of discussing and/or approving personnel actions involving the appointment, reappointment, nomination, evaluation, performance, compensation, and resignation of specific University officers and employees as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Closed Session to discuss and review emergency/security preparation planning at the University to protect, deter and respond to possible future threats to public safety at the University, including terrorism, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711(A) (20) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Closed Session to discuss the acceptance of and negotiations concerning a gift of real property to the University of Virginia, as provided for in Sections 2.2-3711 (A) (3) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convene in Closed Session to review and discuss proprietary business-related information of the Medical Center, and more specifically strategic negotiations on behalf of the Medical Center with regard to investing with a potential joint venture in the development and operation of a medical facility and the leasing and acquisition of real estate for that purpose; where disclosure at this time would adversely affect the competitive position of the Medical Center, as provided for in Sections 2.2-3711 (A) (3), (6) and (23) of the Code of Virginia.

That, in connection with the University Capital Campaign, the Special Committee on Foundations go into Closed Session to discuss and further consult with General Counsel, on his legal advice and guidance, concerning gift development and coordination of fund- raising activity and priorities, with University-Related Foundations, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) ( 4), (6), (7) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board recessed at 11:50 a.m., and went to lunch at Carr Hill with a group of leaders of student organizations.

Executive Session - continued
-----------------------------

The Board resumed its meeting, in Executive Session, in the Board Room of the Rotunda at 1:25 p.m., and continued until 1:55 p.m.

After adopting the following resolution certifying that its discussions in Executive Session had been conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, the Board resumed its meeting in Open Session.

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

Committee Business
------------------

This portion of the meeting began at 1:55 p.m., immediately after the Executive Session.

The various Committee Chairs (Mr. Howell reported for Dr. Vaughan on the Medical Center Operating Board, and Mr. Prior reported for Mr. Pippin on the Committee on The University of Virginia College at Wise) reported on actions taken at their last meetings as well as on their progress in reaching their respective Committee goals, agreed to at the Board Retreat last July.

The Rector recognized Ms. Key, Chair of the Educational Policy Committee, who addressed remarks to Mr. Block, the outgoing Provost, commending him for his contributions and service to the University.

This portion of the meeting ended at 2:50 p.m.

Final Session
-------------

The Final Session of the Board meeting was held in the Board Room of the Rotunda; all Members, save Mr. Pippin and Dr. Vaughan, were present.

The following resolutions were adopted:

APPROVAL TO REQUEST A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FROM THE CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE (approved by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on May 8, 2007)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the request for an easement, from the City of Charlottesville, to permit construction of a new duct bank on and adjacent to Emmet Street for upgraded electrical service to Thornton Hall is authorized; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

APPROVAL OF PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS (approved by the Finance Committee on June 7, 2007)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia finds it to be in its best interest to take ownership from the University of Virginia Foundation of various properties located along Emmet Street and for these properties to be managed by the University of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the following properties are approved for acquisition from the University of Virginia Foundation:

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer be authorized to approve and execute contracts and other documents, and to take such other actions as are necessary and appropriate to consummate these property acquisitions.

APPROVAL OF ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MEDICAL CENTER QUASI-ENDOWMENT FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE(approved by the Finance Committee on June 7, 2007)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the establishment of the Medical Center Quasi- Endowment for the benefit of the School of Medicine in the amount of $25,000,000 is approved. Principal may be disinvested from time to time as necessary to fund academic programs in the School of Medicine.

APPROVAL OF THE AUDIT SCHEDULE (approved by the Audit and Compliance Committee on May 8, 2007)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Audit Schedule for Fiscal Year 2007-2008, is approved as recommended by the Audit and Compliance Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE(approved by the Audit and Compliance Committee on May 8, 2007)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Compliance Schedule for the period July 1, 2007, through June 30, 2008, as presented by the Corporate Compliance Officer, is approved as recommended by the Audit and Compliance Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS(approved by the Audit and Compliance Committee on May 8, 2007)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period February 1, 2007, through March 31, 2007, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit and Compliance Committee.

APPROVAL OF PROJECT SCOPE AND BUDGET MODIFICATIONS (approved by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on May 8, 2007)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the scope modifications for the Emily C. Couric Clinical Cancer Center ($74,000,000) and the Hospital Bed Expansion Project ($80,178,000) and the budget increase for the Renovation of Crockett Hall ($2,150,000) are approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 2007-2008 OPERATING BUDGET AND ANNUAL RENOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION (approved by the Finance Committee on June 7, 2007)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the 2007-2008 Operating Budget and Annual Renovation and Infrastructure Plan for the Academic Division is approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL OF THE 2007-2008 OPERATING BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE (approved by the Finance Committee on June 7, 2007)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the 2007-2008 Operating Budget for The University of Virginia College at Wise is approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL OF THE 2007-2008 OPERATING AND CAPITAL BUDGETS AND ANNUAL RENOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER (approved by the Finance Committee on June 7, 2007)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the 2007-2008 Operating and Capital Budget and the Annual Renovation and Infrastructure Plan for the University of Virginia Medical Center is approved, as recommended by the President, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Medical Center Operating Board.

APPROVAL OF PRATT FUND DISTRIBUTION FOR 2007-2008(approved by the Finance Committee on June 7, 2007) (See Correction of this Resolution on Page 7407 of the October 5, 2007 Minutes of the Board of Visitors)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the budget for the expenditure of funds from the Estate of John Lee Pratt is approved to supplement appropriations made by the Commonwealth of Virginia for the School of Medicine and the Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics in the College of Arts and Sciences. Departmental allocations, not to exceed $7,295,098 for 2007-2008, are suggested by the department chairs and recommended by the dean of each school. To the extent the annual income from the endowment is not adequate to meet the recommended distribution, the principal of the endowment will be disinvested to provide funds for the approved budgets.

APPROVAL OF PROJECT SCOPE, BUDGET MODIFICATIONS, AND ADDITIONAL USE OF DEBT (approved by the Finance Committee on June 7, 2007)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the $3.305 million budget increase and use of additional University debt for the Emily C. Couric Clinical Cancer Center (bringing the total budget to $74.0 million); the $2.2 million budget increase and use of additional University debt for the Hospital Bed Expansion Project (bringing the total budget to $80.178 million); and the $2.15 million budget increase for the renovation of Crockett Hall at The University of Virginia College at Wise (bringing the total budget to $6.9 million) are approved.

APPROVAL OF INTENT TO ISSUE TAX-EXEMPT DEBT(approved by the Finance Committee on June 7, 2007)MEDICAL CENTERMEDICAL CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University intends to undertake the following capital projects utilizing tax-exempt debt as a funding source:

WHEREAS, the United States Department of the Treasury has promulgated final regulations in Section l.l50-2 of the Treasury Regulations governing when the allocation of bond proceeds to reimburse expenditures previously made by a borrower shall be treated as an expenditure of the bond proceeds; and

WHEREAS, the Regulations require a declaration of official intent by a borrower to provide evidence that the borrower intended to reimburse such expenditures with proceeds of its debt; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia desires to make such a declaration of official intent as required by the Regulations; and

WHEREAS, the University may be required to provide short-term financing to each project prior to issuing long-term debt in order to implement an efficient and timely construction schedule; and

WHEREAS, the University has funding mechanisms to accommodate short-term financing needs, defined as a period of less than sixty months; and

WHEREAS, the authority for the University to enter into financing arrangements exceeding sixty months in maturity for each project listed is not included in this resolution; and

WHEREAS, if the University arranges short-term financing for a particular project, and if the project is not ultimately completed, or if the project utilizes funding sources other than debt, then the appropriate school or unit remains responsible for refunding the short-term obligation;

RESOLVED, that pursuant to the terms of the Treasury Regulations, the University of Virginia declares its intent to reimburse expenditures in accordance with the following:

Emily C. Couric Clinical Cancer Center (requested) = $3,305,000 (total of this and all prior approvals = $40,300,000)

Hospital Bed Expansion (requested) = $2,200,000 (total of this and all prior approvals = $62,200,000)

RESOLVED FURTHER that each project is a separate enterprise independent of other projects, and that the authorization for funding relates to each individual project; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that funds may be borrowed for each project on a short-term basis, but only if the following conditions are met:

APPROVAL OF STUDENT SYSTEM REVISED BUDGET (approved by the Finance Committee on June 7, 2007)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, in October 1999, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia authorized the then-Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to initiate and complete the implementation of all phases of the Integrated System project and to approve and execute contracts with software vendors and consulting firms necessary for the successful implementation of the software during those phases; and

WHEREAS, the University successfully implemented the finance phase of the Integrated System Project in July 2001 and successfully implemented the human resource/payroll phase in October 2002, within the approved budget of $39.3 million; and

WHEREAS, in October 1999, the cost of implementing the student information system was anticipated at $15.6 million; and

WHEREAS, the University has completed rigorous selection and negotiation efforts for a software vendor, PeopleSoft Campus Solutions, and for a consulting firm, CedarCrestone, that will provide services to assist with the third phase of the Integrated System project, the implementation of a student information system at the University; and

WHEREAS, the University, with assistance from the consulting firms CedarCrestone and the Gartner Group, has prepared a business case, a revised project budget, and a project plan that includes methodologies to monitor progress, identify and mitigate risk, and to develop and maintain quality within the project; and

WHEREAS, the University recommends a comprehensive, revised budget of $51.2 million; and

WHEREAS, the University anticipates the need for short-term financing; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has previously authorized up to $20 million in short-term financing, to be repaid by June 2010, for the Integrated Systems Project;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves a project budget of $51.2 million for the third phase of the Integrated System Project, bringing the total project budget for all three phases to $90.5 million; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors increases the short- term financing approved in June 2001 to a maximum of $30 million and extends the term from June 2010 until December 2019, ten years after the completion of the student system implementation; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute all contract and loan documents; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Provost and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer shall provide reports to the Finance and Educational Policy Committees no less frequently than semi-annually describing progress on the project and compliance with the business plan.

APPROVAL OF REVISIONS TO THE INVESTMENT POLICY STATEMENT(approved by the Finance Committee on June 7, 2007)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University is the plan sponsor of a number of defined contribution retirement plans; and

WHEREAS, on June 13, 1997, the Board delegated the authority to monitor the administration of the defined contribution retirement plans to the Investment Subcommittee of the Finance Committee; and

WHEREAS, subsequent to the June 13, 1997 meeting of the Board, the Investment Subcommittee of the Finance Committee became the University of Virginia Investment Management Company (UVIMCO); and

WHEREAS, effective July 1, 2004, the University of Virginia Investment Management Company (UVIMCO) became a separate University- related foundation; and

WHEREAS, at its June 2005 meeting, the Board of Visitors delegated to the Finance Committee the authority to monitor the administration of the defined contribution retirement plans on behalf of the Board; and

WHEREAS, the attached revised Retirement Program Policy incorporates this change in governance and other modifications, and is recommended by the Finance Committee appointees for approval;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the Retirement Program Policy, included as Attachment B to this document.

APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Messrs. Ronald C. Flanary and James M. Gott, and Ms. Ruby W. Rogers are re-appointed to The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board for four-year terms ending June 30, 2011, in accordance with the terms of the Board bylaws.

BUDGET/SCOPE ADJUSTMENTS TO THE DINING AND RESIDENCE HALL PROJECTS AT THE COLLEGE AT WISE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors on September 20, 2005, approved the construction of a dining hall and a residence hall at the College at Wise; and

WHEREAS, the concept, site and design guidelines for both projects were approved in May 2006 and the architectural firm of Hanbury, Evans, Wright, Vlattas was approved in September 2006; and

WHEREAS, the budget approved for the dining hall in 2005 was $7,000,000, and the budget approved for the residence hall was $8,000,000, but it is likely that the final budgets will be in excess of the $7,000,000 for the dining hall and the $8,000,000 for the residence hall; and

WHEREAS, more time is needed to confirm the pricing of both projects and to conduct a value management session this summer in order to identify potential cost savings;

RESOLVED, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized, as necessary, to approve an increase in the project budgets for the dining and residence halls, with the concurrence of the Chairs of the Finance and Buildings and Grounds Committees.

MODIFICATION OF PRIOR APPROVAL TO ENTER INTO A JOINT VENTURE FOR A LONG TERM ACUTE CARE HOSPITAL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board at its May 11, 2006 meeting, and the Board of Visitors at its June 9, 2006 meeting, approved resolutions authorizing the University, on behalf of the University of Virginia Medical Center, to enter into a joint venture with HealthSouth Corporation to create a long term acute care hospital to be located in Albemarle County, with the Medical Center's interest in the long term acute care hospital venture to be fifty percent; and

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia Medical Center desires to proceed with the development of the long term acute care hospital but HealthSouth Corporation has decided not to participate in the joint venture; the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation, however, does wish to participate;

RESOLVED, the Medical Center Operating Board modifies its May 11, 2006 resolution to permit the University, on behalf of its Medical Center, to proceed with the creation and development of a long term acute care hospital in Albemarle County, with a cap of $15 million on expenditures; and as necessary to form a joint venture with the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation for the long term acute care hospital business, with the Medical Center interest in such joint venture to be at least fifty one percent (51%); and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center is authorized to negotiate this long term acute care hospital project, including the leasing and acquisition of real estate and the terms of the joint venture with the Health Services Foundation, as deemed necessary or appropriate by the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer, and to recommend such transaction to the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University for approval; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University is authorized, with the concurrence of the Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board and the Chair of the Finance Committee, to approve and execute contracts and other documents, and to take such other actions as he deems necessary, for the creation and development of a long term acute care hospital, including any joint venture with the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation.

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER TO ACCEPT REAL PROPERTY TO FULFILL GIFT AGREEMENTS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized, with the concurrence of the Rector and the Chair of the Finance Committee, to take any action and execute any and all documents necessary to effect the transfer of real property to the University to fulfill, in whole or in part, a gift commitment to the University. Further, the Board specifies that the University, or the University of Virginia Foundation on behalf of the University, must conduct appropriate due diligence prior to any transfer of real property.

INVITING FACULTY PARTICIPATION IN THREE BOARD COMMITTEES
--------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors wishes to promote closer ties with the faculty and more faculty involvement in the deliberations of the Board, with the aim of the faculty and the Board working together to advance the goals of the University; and

WHEREAS, the Board and the several Chairs of the Faculty Senate over the last few years have enjoyed a close and productive relationship; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center Operating Board, a Committee of the Board of Visitors, includes Members of the Board of Visitors and members of the faculty, as well as public Members, elected by the Board of Visitors, who serve in a consulting but otherwise fully participating capacity;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors invites a more formal relationship in which the immediate past Chair of the Faculty Senate each year shall serve a one year term as a consulting, but otherwise fully participating member of the Educational Policy Committee, the External Affairs Committee and the Special Committee on Diversity; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, this arrangement shall become effective on July 1, 2007, with the faculty representative to change each year at the time of the annual change in the leadership of the Faculty Senate.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Election of Chairholder(b) Change in the Election of Dr. David S. Geldmacher(c) Promotion of Chairholders(d) Change of Title of Chairholder (e) Special Salary Action of Chairholder(f) Resignation of ChairholdersPROMOTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTAPPOINTMENTSRE-APPOINTMENTSELECTION OF DR. ARTHUR GARSON, JR., AS EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND PROVOST ELECTION OF DR. SHARON L. HOSTLER AS INTERIM VICE PRESIDENT AND DEAN OF THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINEELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUSDEATH
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the election of Dr. David S. Geldmacher as Harrison Distinguished Teaching Associate Professor of Neurology, effective November 25, 2006, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated April 13, 2007, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirement was announced:

The following appointments was announced:

The following re-appointments were announced:

RESOLVED that Dr. Arthur Garson, Jr., is elected as Executive Vice President and Provost, for five years, effective July 1, 2007.

RESOLVED that Dr. Sharon L. Hostler is elected as Interim Vice President and Dean of the School of Medicine, for up to a year or until a dean is hired, effective July 1, 2007.

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Professor Emeritus:

The following death was announced:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISERESIGNATIONAPPOINTMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resignation was announced:

The following appointment was announced:

Assignments to the Standing Committees
--------------------------------------

Mr. Fralin, the Vice Rector, announced the assignments to the Standing Committees. (A list of the Committees and the Members assigned to them is appended to these Minutes as Attachment C)

Mr. Fralin then commended the Rector for his leadership (this meeting being the last meeting of the full Board at which he will preside).

The meeting was recessed at 3:00 p.m., and the Board moved to the Dome Room of the Rotunda to approve the creation of a professorship and to hear a report on a naming.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JAQUELIN T. ROBERTSON VISITING PROFESSORSHIP IN ARCHITECTURE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Jaquelin T. Robertson, a Richmonder who was educated at Yale University and the University of Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar, was Dean of the School of Architecture at the University of Virginia from 1980 to 1988; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Robertson did much to enhance the reputation of the School, bringing architects and planners of international renown to lecture and teach at the School; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Robertson continued the work of earlier Deans and faculty members in restoring and preserving the historic center of the University, and helped raise money to put these efforts on a sound footing; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Robertson received the Thomas Jefferson Medal in Architecture in 1998; and

WHEREAS, friends, relatives, and colleagues of Mr. Robertson have contributed generously to the creation of a chair in his honor;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Jaquelin T. Robertson Visiting Professorship in Architecture, to be held in the School of Architecture, thanks the generous donors who have made this possible, and pays tribute to Mr. Robertson as an architect and as a Virginian for the contributions he has made to his profession, but above all for the contributions he made to the School of Architecture as Dean.

Report on the Naming of the Jay Y. Gillenwater Simulator Training Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the renovated simulator training center, located in the West Complex of the University Hospital, near the Urology Department, is to be named The Jay Y. Gillenwater Simulator Training Center. Dr. Gillenwater was Chair of the Department of Urology when he retired in 1995, as well as the Hovey S. Dabney Professor of Urology and the John E. Cole Professor in Urology. Among other honors and positions, he was the President of the American Foundation of Urological Diseases and the American Urological Association, and chair and trustee of the National Kidney Foundation. He is well known as a teacher and mentor.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 3:30 p.m.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: June 8, 2007 CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration were discussed in closed session.

RESOLUTIONS NOT REQUIRING ACTION BY THE FULL BOARDBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE, MAY 8, 2007APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE LEE STREET ENTRY AND CONNECTIVE ELEMENTSAPPROVAL OF CONCEPT, SITE, AND DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE LEE STREET ENTRY AND CONNECTIVE ELEMENTS APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR HOSPITAL BED EXPANSIONMEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD, MAY 7, 2007ENDORSEMENT OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR HOSPITAL BED EXPANSION CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONSNEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFREAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFSTATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFFRESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFFPRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSRENEWAL OF PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSSTATUS CHANGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSRESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolutions were adopted in Board Committees and do not have to be approved by the full Board; they are enumerated below as a matter of record.

RESOLVED that Zimmer Gunsul Frasca Architects of Washington, D.C., is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Lee Street Entry and Connective Elements at the University of Virginia.

RESOLVED that the concept, site, and design guidelines, dated May 8, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Lee Street Entry And Connective Elements, are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated May 8, 2007, and prepared by the SmithGroup of Washington, D.C. for the Hospital Bed Expansion Project, is approved for further development and construction.

RESOLVED, the Medical Center Operating Board endorses and recommends to the Building and Grounds Committee for approval for further development and approval the schematic design dated May 7, 2007 and prepared by the SmithGroup of Washington, D.C., for the Hospital Bed Expansion Project.

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status changes in clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change in privileges to the following Allied Health Professional are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

ATTACHMENT A(NCAA RULES)NCAA Philosophy of Institutional ControlFour Pillars of Institutional ControlDefinition of Representative of Athletics Interests (Booster)Rules for Boosters Regarding Prospective Student-AthletesA Booster May NOT:A Booster May: Rules for Boosters Regarding Enrolled Student-AthletesA Booster May NOT:A Booster May:Rules for Boosters Regarding Former Student-AthletesA Booster May NOT:A Booster May: Contact Information
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

COMPLIANCE OFFICE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA P.O. Box 400830 Charlottesville, VA 22904-4830 Phone: (434) 982-5018 Fax: (434) 982-5213

June 8, 2007

The control and responsibility for the conduct of intercollegiate athletics shall be exercised by the institution itself and by the conference(s), if any, of which it is a member. Administrative control or faculty control, or a combination of the two, shall constitute institutional control.

NCAA legislation defines a booster as an individual who is known (or who should have been known) by a member of the institutions executive or athletics administration to:

Once an individual is identified as such a booster, the person retains that identity indefinitely.

Steve Flippen Assistant Athletics Director for Compliance 434-982-5018 athleticscompliance@virginia.edu

ATTACHMENT B (POLICY ON QUALIFIED DEFINED CONTRIBUTION RETIREMENT PROGRAM) UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POLICY ON QUALIFIED DEFINED CONTRIBUTION RETIREMENT PROGRAM ("Retirement Program Policy ") JULY 9, 1997 Revised MAY 18, 2007University of Virginia Policy on Qualified Defined Contribution Retirement Program ("Retirement Program Policy")I. PurposeII. Program GoalsIII. Program ProvisionsKey InformationPolicy ProvisionsIV. Authority and Responsibility The Finance Committee or its Appointees will:The Retirement Administrative Committee will:The Program Administrator will generally be responsible for:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I. Purpose

II. Goals

III. Program Provisions

IV. Authority and Responsibility

The Board of Visitors has overall responsibility for the University Qualified Defined Contribution Retirement Program, which is administered by the Chief Human Resources Officer. The purpose of this Retirement Program Policy (PP is to establish the roles of the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors and the Retirement Administrative Committee in the oversight of this program to ensure program goals are met.

The University of Virginia Retirement Program sponsors several qualified retirement plans, including but not limited to the Faculty Retirement Plan and the Medical Center Retirement Plan (the "Plan" or lans. Although not required to follow ERISA standards, ERISA Section 404(c) is used as a guideline. The Plans are designed to:

The Plans are defined contribution plans.

The Board of Visitors has overall responsibility for the Program and delegates oversight to the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors or its appointees, and Program administration to the Retirement Administrative Committee.

Providing a description of procedures established to provide confidentiality of information relating to investments in the Plan and without providing advice, direct employees to plan providers to access information and full plan provisions and benefits.

ATTACHMENT C (STANDING COMMITTEE LIST)COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA July 1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., Chair

Austin Ligon

Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr.

Don R. Pippin

Warren M. Thompson

BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE

Lewis F. Payne, Chair

Daniel R. Abramson

Alan A. Diamonstein

Susan Y. Dorsey

Thomas F. Farrell, II

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr.

Carey J. Mignerey

Don R. Pippin

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEE

Glynn D. Key, Chair

Alan A. Diamonstein

Susan Y. Dorsey

Austin Ligon

Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr.

Carey J. Mignerey

Lewis F. Payne

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

John O. Wynne

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

W. Heywood Fralin, Chair

A. Macdonald Caputo

Susan Y. Dorsey

Thomas F. Farrell, II

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

John O. Wynne

EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE

A. Macdonald Caputo, Chair

Daniel R. Abramson

Glynn D. Key

Austin Ligon

Carey J. Mignerey

Lewis F. Payne

Don R. Pippin

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

John O. Wynne

FINANCE COMMITTEE

John O. Wynne, Chair

A. Macdonald Caputo

Alan A. Diamonstein

Thomas F. Farrell, II

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Glynn D. Key

Austin Ligon

Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr.

Warren M. Thompson

MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., Chair

W. Heywood Fralin

Sam D. Graham, Jr., M.D.

Randy J. Koporc

Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr.

Lewis F. Payne

Randl L. Shure

Edward J. Stemmler, M.D.

Jane Haycock Woods

John O. Wynne

Ex Officio Advisory Members:

Arthur Garson Jr., M.D.

John B. Hanks, M.D.

R. Edward Howell

Leonard W. Sandridge

STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEE

Susan Y. Dorsey, Chair

Daniel R. Abramson

A. Macdonald Caputo

Thomas F. Farrell, II

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Glynn D. Key

Carey J. Mignerey

Don R. Pippin

Warren M. Thompson

COMMITTEE ON THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA COLLEGE AT WISE

Don R. Pippin, Chair

Alan A. Diamonstein

Thomas F. Farrell, II

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

John O. Wynne

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON DIVERSITY

Warren M. Thompson, Chair

Daniel R. Abramson

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Glynn D. Key

Carey J. Mignerey

John O. Wynne

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY

John O. Wynne, Chair

A. Macdonald Caputo

Peter F. Dolan

Christine P. Gustafson

Mark J. Kington

Leonard W. Sandridge

Thomas A. Saunders, III

Matthew G. Thompson

W. Heywood Fralin, Ex Officio

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON PLANNING

John O. Wynne, Chair

A. Macdonald Caputo

Susan Y. Dorsey

Thomas F. Farrell, II

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Glynn D. Key

Lewis F. Payne

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

NOTE: The Rector is an ex-officio member of all Committees except the Executive Committee and the Medical Center Operating Board: he is a full-fledged voting member of the MCOB and Chair of the Executive Committee.