 TEI to HTML

December 4, 2007 MEMORANDUM
---------------------------

TO: The Board of Visitors:

W. Heywood Fralin, Rector

John O. Wynne, Vice Rector

Austin Ligon

Daniel R. Abramson

Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr.

A. Macdonald Caputo

The Hon. Lewis F. Payne

The Hon. Alan A. Diamonstein

Don R. Pippin

Susan Y. Dorsey

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

Thomas F. Farrell, II

Warren M. Thompson

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

Glynn D. Key

Carey J. Mignerey

FROM: Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

SUBJECT: Minutes of the Telephonic Poll of the Board on December 4, 2007

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia was polled by telephone on December 4, 2007, on the naming of the new building that has been erected as the annex to Rouss Hall — the two buildings will serve as the home of the McIntire School of Commerce beginning in the second semester of this academic year.

The building was given by John A. Griffin, who took his degree from the McIntire School in 1985. At the time of his gift, Mr. Griffin specified that he wanted to delay the naming until around December 1st of this year. Subsequently, he asked that the building be named in honor of his mentor, the New York financier Julian H. Robertson, Jr., and his wife, Josie.

The President and the University Names Committee approved the naming.

All voting Members of the Board approved the following resolution:

RESOLVED, that the annex to Rouss Hall be named Robertson Hall, the two buildings to be opened in 2008 as the new quarters of the McIntire School of Commerce. The naming honors Julian H. Robertson, Jr. and his wife, Josie;

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Board expresses its great gratitude to John A. Griffin, an alumnus of the McIntire School, not only for his continuing support and interest, but for his magnificent gift which has made possible the construction of Robertson Hall.